Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10184-BU   Type: (SAR)                      Report No. 10184-BU
DIOP, M    / X34369 / J-7069/ AF3IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =   Burundi franc (FBu)
1991     US$1  =   FBu 20C (as of December 1991)
Period Ayerg:    1990       US$I  =   FBu 171
1989     US$1  =   FBu 159
1988     US$I  =   FBu 140
1987     US$I  =   FBu 124
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric International Standard System
I meter (m)          =   3.3 feet
I hectare (ha)       =   2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)     =   0.62 mile
I sq kilometer (km2)   =   0.39 sq mile (sq mi)
i kilogram (kg)      =   2.2 pounds Ob)
I liter (1)          =   0.26 US gallon (gal)
I metric ton (m ton)   =   2,204 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        =    African Development Bank
AGCD        =    Administration Generale de la Cooperation
au Ddveloppement (Belgian Aid Agency)
APEE        =    Agence de Promotion des Echanges Extdrieurs
BANCOBU  =    Banque Comsnerciale du Burundi
BBCI        =    Banque Burundaise de Credit et d'lnvestissement
BCB         =    Banque de Credit de Bujumbura
BEST        =    Burundi Enterprise Support and Training
BNDE        =    Banque Nationale de Ddveloppement Economique (Development
Bank)
BRB         =    Banque de la Rdpublique du Burundi - Central Bank
CADEBU    =    Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi
CAMOFI    =    Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement
CCCE        =    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
CCIB        =    Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi
CEC         =    Commission of European Communities
COOPECs   =    Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit
EDF               European Development Fund
EIB         =    European Investment Bank
ESAF              Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FAC         =    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Agency)
FNG         =    Fonds National de Garantie
FOSIP       =    Fonds de Soutien a l'lnvestissement Prive
FPHU        =    Fonds de Promotion de l'Habitat Urbain
IFC         =    International Finance Corporation
ILO         =    International Labor Organization
IMF         =    International Monetary Fund
KfW         =    Kreditanstalt fMr Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
MBB         =    Meridien Bank of Burundi
MCI         -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MPWUD    =    Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
OGL         =    Open General Licensing
PCU         =    Policy Coordinating Unit
PE          =    Public Enterprise
PFI         =    Participating Financial Intermediaries
PMU         =    Project Management Unit
PSD         =    Private Sector Development
PTA         =    Preferential Trade Agreement
SAL         =    Structural Adjustment CredittLoan
SBF         =    Societe Burundalse de Financement
SCEP        =    Public Enterprise Reform Office
SOCABU    =    Socete d'Assurances du Burundi
SOFIDHAR  =    Societe de Financement de l'Habitat Rural
SSE/APEX   =    Small-Scale Enterprise Project
TT          =    Tumover or Transaction Tax
UCAR        =    Union Commerciale des Assurances au Burundi
UTNDP       =    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO       =    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID       =    United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KEPUBIC CBURU NDI
PRfVATE SYCTOR DEVELOPENT POJECT
STAFFAPPRAASAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDrr AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...............................
I.  INTRODUCTlON                 .....................1.................... 
II. THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT    .....................                                                   2
A. Overview of the Industrial Sector ............................                               2
- Efficiency and Performance ..............................                               3
- Informal Sector  .....................................                                  4
B. Export Orientation and Performance  ............ .........                                    S
C. Overview of the Financial Sector  ......7....              ..........                        7
- Financial Situation and Profitability .........................                         7
- Institutional Capacity ..............                                                    8
III. A PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ...................                                          8
A. Issues and Constraints .............    8
B. Government Strategy for Private Sector Development ................                          16
- In the Enterprise and Industrial Sector .......................                         16
- In the Financial Sector .................................                              17
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which took place in March, 1991, and of an appraisal mission
which visited Burundi from June 19 to July 9, 1991. Both missions consisted of Messrs. Mohamadou Diop, Sr. Operations
Officer (AF31E, mission leader and task manager), Andr6 Ryba, Banling Sector Specialist (AFTEP - financial sector), Iradj
Alikhani, Industrial Economist (AP31B - industrial and business environment). Mr. Paul Ballard, Principal Industrial Economist
was peer reviewer. Contributions are acknowledged from Messrs. J-F Drdau (AF31N, Sites and Services), and J. Rwamabuga,
Operations Officer (RMB - business investment climate and prospects), Mr. Nguyen Tu Son, Consultant (regulatory
framework), and Mme. Lucie C. Philips, Consultant (private enterprises and the new business environment) in the course of
their work on the Burlndi Industrial Sector Report. Bilingual secretaial support was provided by Mme Fran9oise Schatten, Staff
Assistant, (AP31E). Messrs. Francisco Aguirrrn-Sacasa (AF3DR) and Michael N. Sarris (AP31E) art the Department Director
and the managing Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  THIE PROJECT ..................................................                 19
Project Objectives and Justification .....................  .......            19
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations              ....20
Project Description and Design ....................                            21
Institutional Arrangements       ...................................           27
V.   THE PROPOSED CRED1T AND MAIN FEATURES  .................                        30
VI.  PROJECTBENEFITS AND RISKS .............................                         38
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED  ....                   ...........      38
:DM
2.1 Evolution of Principal Exports.                                                   7
5.1   Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .34
5.2 Estimated Project Cost .37
ANMIM
2.1   Status of Business and Enterprise Regulatory Reforms
2.2 Policy Matrix of Private Sector Developmeat Measures
2.3   Structure and Characteristics of the Financial Sector
2.4 Policy Matrix of Financial Sector Development Measures
4.1  Integrated Project Management Unit
4.2   Estimated Cost of Technicai Assistance
4.3   Sites and Services - Estimated Investment Costs
4.4   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
5.1   Schedule of IDA Credit Disbursements
5.2   Bank Supervision Plan
TABLES (ANNEEX 2.3)
1    Burundi Commercial Banks: Key Indicators
2     Characteristics of Main Institutions Operating
Under the Banking Legislation
3     Summary Balance Sheet of Commercial Banks (Unaudited)
4     BNDE - Summary Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
5     SBF - Summary Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
6     Reported Profitability of Banking Institutions
7     Distribution of Demand Deposits by Institution
8     Distribution of Term Deposits by Institution
9     Structure and Evolution of Commercial Bank Deposits
10    Sectoral Distribution of Credits to the Economy
11    Structure and Evolution of Credits Distributed



Credit  d ProMect Summary
lBoMrower:             Republic of Burundi.
BneficlAdir^           Central Bank of Burundi (BRB), Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs), Private Enterprises, Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI),
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development (MPWUD), Ministry of
Energy and Mining, Ministry of Justice, and Public Enterprise Reform Office
(Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques - SCEP).
Amoun:                 SDR 12.4 million (US$17.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Prolect Comnonen
and Onlendin TeM:    The project consists of a line of credit for productive investments, industrial
infrastructure, improvements in the business environment and in financial
intermediation, and technical assistance in support of private sector
development.
(i) LiM of Credit. The Borrower would pass on US$11.0 million equivalent
as a loan to the Central Bank (BRB) at the prevailing market determined
average yield of the auction market for three-month Treasury Certificate
(IC), minus an amnual administrative fee of at least 1.0 percent of the
outstanding subloans refinanced under the Credit. This fee would be reviewed
periodically to ensure that the operating costs of the Project Management Unit
(PMU) within the Central Bank are covered. The loan to the Central Bank
would be for 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The Central
Bank would onlend the funds to qualified PFIs at the TC average yield, with
a flexible amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate maturities of
subloans extended by intermediaries. Onlending interest rates charged by
PFIs to sub-borrowers would be variable and market-determined. The
onlending rates would be reviewed periodically to ensure that they continue
to reflect market rates. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government.
(ii) Sites and Servies, US$3.5 million through the MPWDU for an
investment program in astes and services in the undeveloped industrial zone
of Bujumbura, the capital city, to be recovered through the sale of industrial
plots.
(iii) tnic  Assn. US$2.5 million to be passed on as a grant by
Government to implementing institutions for a multifaceted training and
technical assistance to (a) participating intermediaries, and private
entrepreneurs through the PMU, with emphasis on project implementation,



- ii -
marketing and export promotion; (b) the Central Bank and banks to
implement staff training and capacity building programs, to improve banking
supervision, economic and monetary analyses as well as credit evaluation; (c)
Ministry of Commerce and Industry for a Policy Coordinating Unit (PCU),
(d) Ministry of Energy and Mining to assist in reforming mining investment
and regulatory policies; (e) SCEP for legal reform studies, and (f) Ministry
of Justice and Tribunal of Commerce for staff training and provision of office
equipment and technology to improve its efficiency and speed in processing
business litigations.
Beneflts and Risks:   Major expected benefits would stem from an enhanced supply response to
ongoing structural adjustment reforms through increased local and foreign
private investment that would contribute in attaining Burundi's export
diversification and growth objectives. Rapid response by private sector
investors, encouraged by improved business conditions, would create the
employment opportunities that are critical for the success of adjustment. The
process of fully revamping the regulatory framework, and the implementation
of fiscal and labor policy reforms may experience delays during the political
transition, thereby slowing investments. The consensus built around the need
for effective reform of the business environment and the strong voice of a
rapidly emerging private sector should minimize this risk and ensure thae
effective implementation of the project.
Estimatedr Prie  Cos:
LO9'al     Foreian      Total
-(US$1,000)              …
(A) Investments
Subprojects                                    8,100.0     14,000.0    22,200.0
Site. and Services                               900.0       3.000.0     3.900.0
Subtotal                                      9.000.0      17.000.0    26O0.0
(B) Technical Aegistance and Trainina
Project Management                               300.0          40.0       340.0
Enterprise Consultant Services                   100.0         240.0       340.0
Ministry of Mining*                                -           400.0       400.0
Legal Reforms*                                   145.0         375.0       520.0
Tribunal of Commerce*                             30.0         150.0       250.0
Central Bank - BRB*                                -         2,060.0     2,060.0
Ministry of Commerce & Industry*                 2§Q.Q         200.0       450.0
Subtotal                                       . 825.0       3.465.0     4.290.0
TOTAL                                              9,825.0      20,465.0    30,290.0
* Advanced Funding under PPF



- iii -
FinancinLe Plan:
*mountœ        Percentaae d
(US$1,000)
Investment Prolectt
Subborrowrex                                      5,100.0             22.60
Participating Institutlons                        6,000.0             31.70
IDA                                              11UL000.0            45.70
Subtotal                                         22.100,0            100.00
Sites a§  ervices
Borrower                                            400.0             10.26
IDA                                               3.500.0
Suhtotal                                                             1    0900.0  0.Q0QQ
Technical Apsistance
Borrower                                            600.0              2.00
Other Donors                                      1,190.0             28.80
IDA                                               2.5000Q             69.20
Subtotal                                          4.290s0            100.00
TOTAL                                            30,290.0            100.00
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
py                  :9^3        1994      1995        1996       1997        1998
…US-----------------US$million…-----------------------
Annual               1.0        5.8        3.7         2.5        2.5         1.5
Cumulative          1.0         6.8       10.5        13.0       15.5        17.0
Economic Rate of Reurn:                Credit component:                N/A
Sites and services:              Cost rlvery
Map No.: IBRD 23604



SECTR DEVELOPETOJCT
I. RCQD
1.1   Burundi is a small landlocked country In Central Africa. Its per capita GDP is about US$210
(1990). With a population of about 5.5 million growing at 3 percent per annum, Burundi has the second
highest population density in Africa (193 persons/square kilometer). Almost 94 percent of the population
lives in rural areas and the economy is dependent on agriculture for more than half of GDP, 90 percent
of employment and 90 percent of export earnings. Coffee accounts for about 80 percent of total exports.
The secondary sector (mining and manufacturing) represents only 14 percent of GDP and 5 percent of
exports. Ethnic rivalry has been a major feature of Burundi's political history since the country's
independence in 1962. A policy of national reconciliation and unity, initiated in 1988 following new
unrest, is being successfully pursued and a significant opening-up of the political system is underway.
1.2   Burundi has been implementing an adjustment program since 1986. During this period, per capita
GDP growth has remained slightly positive despite the fall in the international price of coffee, the
country's main source of export revenue. However, there has been limited export response in other
subsectors, characterized by an increase in the number of products exported by the private sectr, and
leading to a modest growth in the total volume of exports. Under the Government's comprehensive
adjustment program, stabilization measures were introduced, and steps taken to bring about structural
changes: the exchange rate was devalued, and has since been maintained competitive through an active
exchange rate policy, most industrial prices were decontrolled, the tariff structure was rationalized, trade
policy was liberalized and significant budgetary reforms were introduced.
1.3   The adjustment program has not yet stimulated a strong supply response, partly because of the
mixed signals given by the Government to the private sector. Even though the elaborate system of
controls regulating private activity has been eased, the public enterprise (PE) sector has remained
essentially unchanged, and the private sector has been hesitating to undertake productive investments.
The critical mass of effective reforms needed to elicit sustainable supply response by the private sector
has not yet been attained. The present development strategy for Burundi calls for the creation of a
business environment that would enable the private sector to provide the main impetus for growth.
Meeting the challenge of creating a smaller, more efficiently managed PE sector, and a rapidly emerging
private sector, requires the participation of local and foreign private investors, spurred on by an
appropriate mix of a far-reaching overhaul of policy barriers and regulatory constraints, and effective
assistance to promoters. Ihe immediate objective is to provide the private sector with both the incentives
and the means to launch new ventures, and to take over economically viable public enterprises.
1.4   In the context of the dialogue for the preparation of the operation described in this report, and
the continuation of the overall adjustment program, the Government is already taking strong action to
ensure that an enabling environment for private sector development is put in place. Priorities include the
removal of institutional, legal and regulatory impediments to private enterprise creation. The
implementation of sharply-focused financial intermediation and financial policy reforms is also a key
factor for the promotion of productive investments. The proposed private sector development project will
support changes to improve the business environment, provide technical assistance to ensure their
implementation and help finance new productive investments as well as the rehabilitation and
redimensioning of existing enterprises. The success of this three-pronged strategy of reform, technical
assistance and investment funding hinges upon Burundi's ability to maintain a supportive economic and



-2-
political environment to attract and develop export-minded private entrepreneurship. The lhird Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC-Ill, which will be implemented in parallel with the proposed operation, will
concentrate on further reform of public enterprises, including nonviable financial institutions, labor
market deregulation, a reduction and more even distribution of the tax burden on productive activities,
and liberalization in the agricultural sector.
1.5   In parallel, policy and financing constraints are being tackled with Bank support through a series
of lending operations. Th. ongoing Small Scale Enterprises project (SSE/APEX- Credit 1889-BU), and
the Coffee Sector Project (Cr. 2123-BU) have provided funds for investments. SAC-II (Cr. 1919-BU)
and the SSE/APEX Project have supported improvements in financial sector policies, including
liberalization of Interest rates, successful launching of an auction market for Treasury Certificates ('Cs),
and important steps towards rationalizing monetary and credit policy regulations and instruments. The
problems of the Public Enterprise (PE) sector have begun to be tackled under a Technical Assistance
Project for Public Enterprise Reform and Economic Management (Cr. 1795-BU) and the Coffee Sector
Project (Cr. 2123-BU).
. THE BUSINESS ENVIRON
2.1   The private sector plays a major role in agricultural production (through small holder farming)
and in the transportation sector. Thus, the private sector is involved in the production of both export and
food crops, while the public sector enjoys a quasi-monopolistic position in the processing and export of
primary commodities and manufacturing, and generates half of the country's formal employment. Non
industrial private sector activities outside the agricultural sector are found principally in the informal
sector (paras. 2.10 and 2.11), in international trade, where some 150 modem firms, mostly importers,
currently operate, and in a growing but limited service industry, principally in consulting. Following
simplification of business licensing procedures, 200 new importers, mostly informal sector businessmen,
were registered during 1991. The private business sector is organized around the Chamber of Commerce
and Industry of Burundi (CCIB), where industry, agricultural and trade associations, with a total
membership of 2,000 businesses, send representatives and contribute to the operating budget. CCIB, a
private non-profit organization, is now relatively more autonomous, as Government's hitherto direct
control has been significantly diminished (para. 4.21).
A. Ovlew nof the Industrial Sector
2.2    A  report entitled Private Sector Development in the Iustrial Sector provides details on the
structure, performance and prospects of the sector 1/. Modem manufacturing accounts for about 5
percent of GDP (PBu 9 billion, US$60 million), i.e., about half the average contribution to GDP for low-
income developing countries. It employs about 20,000 people-less than one percent of the active
population. Some 200 formal enterprises are presently engaged in niamufacturing up from the 189 firms
Identified in a 1988 survey. Most local enterprises enjoy a monopoly or duopoly status for individual
product lines. Competition emanates from imports or, in some subsectors such as soap, from informal
sector firms. Eighty five percent of the enterprises are private but mostly engaged in small-scale
activities. Thus, about two thirds of Burundi's industrial output originates from PEs, reflecting the heavy
large-scale public investment undertaken during 1978-86.
A/ Report No. 9422-BU dated February 10, 1992



-3 -
2.3   Priate-Entarise. Private manufacturing Is dominated by the two breweries, employing 1,000
people and generating FBu 2.5 billion (US$15 million) of value added. These two firms have minority
public ownership, but are operated by independent private management. Mhe rest of the sector is
currently composed of some 175 private small and medium enterprises (up from 163 in 1988), employing
100 workers and generating value added of FBu 40 million (US$200,000) per enterprise. Although
foreign investors, mainly from Europe and the Indian subcontinent, operate about half of the private
firms, foreign investment and ownership have declined since the early 1980s. Under the new private
sector development strategy, renewed emphasis will be placed on the promotion of foreign investment,
particularly in export-oriented ventures.
2.4   Public  terprises (PEs) dominate the industrial sector in investment, equity and assets --more
than 75 percent of total industrial assets. This large PE sector and the support it has received from the
Government have hindered private sector initiatives. The IDA-financed technical assistance project (Cr.
1795-BU) provides funding to undertake analyses necessary for privatizing/liquidating PEs not slated to
remain in the Government's portfolio. Implementation of PE restructuring has been slow but is expected
to improve with the inclusion of monitorble targets under the proposed SAC-HI. The program includes:
(a) increasing managerial autonomy; (b) phasing out direct and indirect subsidies to productive or
commercial PEs, which after a reasonable period will be expected to operate on the same commercial
basis as the private sector or be liquidated; and (c) privatization and liquidation of an agreed list of PEs.
As a result, at least 34 enterprises will have private management and/or majority ownership, and 22 will
be liquidated or reintegrated into the public service. Implementation of restructuring of financial
institutions and agro-industries targeted under SAC-III will be supported by two investment operations:
(i) the proposed project, and (ii) an agro-business promotion operation currently under preparation.
Based on enterprise-specific targets, elaborated as part of the Government's ESAF program with the
Fund, direct and indirect subsidies to the sector are expected to decline from about 3 percent of GDP in
1990 to 1 percent in 1992.
Efficiency and Performance
2.5    Growth. Industrial output grew at about 3 percent per year between 1986 and 1989. According
to preliminary estimates, growth accelerated in 1990 and 1991, but remains constrained by lack of
competitiveness and responsiveness to incentives. Until recendy, high tariff protection and excessive
production costs dissuaded exports. Even though since 1986 the top tariff rate has been reduced from 250
percent to 40 percent, tariff protection remains high. A vigorous supply response from the existing sector
remains elusive because of obsolete equipment and poor product designs, inadequate management and
the high cost of doing business, in particular excessive personnel costs caused by labor laws. New
activities and expansion of existing ventures have been limited by the same factors as well as by the
cumbersome legal and regulatory framework, the absence of business know-how, the ballooning of the
initial investment cCst because of the need to invest in sites and services, and the general climate of
uncertainty over future Government policy. The proposed operation will strive to remove policy barriers
and, in coordination with other donor and IDA-funded projects, put in place measures and financial
resources to alleviate some of these constraints and support the Government in sustaining its liberalization
policies.
2.6   Investment Response. Despite these problerms, the private sector has begun to respond, albeit
moderately, to the liberalization measures of the past five years. For example, between 1978 and 1982,
investment in industry averaged about FBu 900 million (IJS$10 million) per year and slowly grew,
specially in 1986-89, to reach FBu 3 billion (US$20 million) in 1989 (excluding SOSUMO, a large sugar
processing PE). The private sector accounts for much of- the increase, as its share in industrial
investments went up from about 25 percent during the 1978-82 period to 65 percent in the 1989-91



-4-
period. On average five new private enterprises per year came to existence between 1986 and 1989,
compared to an average of three per year during the first half of the 1980s. Commercial activities also
grew rapidly, with the number of active informal and modem importers almost doubling between 1985
and 1988, reaching about 300 in the latter year.
2.7   Inve,tment P    Xot. Based on a sample of 60 large enterprises (excluding the brewery and
SOSUMO), investments in 1989 are ostimated to total over FB3u 2.1 billion (US$13.2 million), of which
FBu 1,500 million (US$9.4 million) by existing private industrial firms, and FBu 300 million (US$1.9
million) by industrial PEs. A fairther FBu 300 million (US$1.9 million) was invested by new firms.
Investments in commercial activities also increased to about FBu 1 billion (US$6.3 million) during 1988-
89. Extrapolated to include all firms, total investment in commercial and Industrial activities currerntly
surpasses FBu 3 billion (US$17.5 million) each year. These trends are supported by reliable data on
official investment approvals and the pipeline of projects Identified by the Bank during project appraisal.
2.8   Under the investment code, the National Investment Commission (NIC) approved 20 projects
totaling FBu 1.9 billion (US$11 million) in investments during 1990, (e:cluding a large extension projent
of FBu 3 billion (US$17.5 million) by COTEBU, a PE textile firm). Currently 21 investment projects
are linder implementation for a total investment cost of FBu 3 billion (US$17.5 million), excluding
CCO17EBU. Some 42 additional small-scale enterprise (SSE) projects (investments under US$350,000)
have been guaranteed by National Guarantee Fund (FNG), the mixed private/public guarantee institution.
These SSE investments are estimated at FBu 340 million (US$2 million). More SSE projects are also
under study or ?ieing processed by the Investment Commission and the FNG. In sum, there are 62
investment projects requiring an estimated financing of about US$20 million in an advanced stage of
preparation. 'The foreign excbange requirement of these projects is estimated to range between US$10
to 15 million.
2.9   The significant improvements in the enabling environment for the private sector and the opening
of new opportunities in commercial and productive activities, hitherto the exclusive domains of the State,
are expected to lead to substantial increases in private investment activities. The mix of macroeconomic
reforms, and the proposed microeconomic and sectoral measures are likely to create the critical mass of
effective reforms needed to stimulate a supply response. Based on this expectation, and in view of actual
response to past liberalization efforts, total private sector investnent within the next two to three years
is expected to surpass FBu 5 billion (US$25 million) in constant 1990 prices.
2.10  ThLInformal Setor. According to two recent USAID and International Labor Office (ILO)
studies, the informal sector's production was estimated at about FBu 8 billion (US$53.3 million) in 1988-
89, approximately equal to modern manufacturing output. The sector grew briskly between 1986 and
1989, doubling in size in nominal terms and employing an estimated 10,000 people. The number of units
in Bujumbura is estimated at about 3,000 dealing with food products, garment (half the sector), wood and
metal-working, low cost housing construction, and repairs. The sector consists mainly of self-employed
individuals (64 percent) with less than 4 percent of the enterprises employing more than 5 people. On
average the start-up capital is estimated at less than US$1,000 equivalent. Business activities are
conducted 50 percent in private homes and about 20 percent with leased equipment from other
entrepreneurs. Workers consist essentially of men in their thirties and with little formal education. There
are 300 to 500 entrepreneurs who, with the appropriate incentive and focused assistance, could expand
the scope of their activities and forn a pool from which formal sector entrepreneurs could emerge.
2.11 Data compiled by the SSE/APEX unit in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Burundi
(CCIB) indicates growing demand for investment funds from SSEs, some of which are presently in the
informal sector. Women, who are virtually absent from the sector, are now being targeted for assistance



-5 - 
by otlier donors. Several among the latter are moWitoring and helping the development of Informal
a,tivities. Under the ongoing SSE/APEX (Cr. 1889-BU), Second Urban Developmewt (Cr. 1968-BU)
and Transport Sector (Cr.2105-BU) projects, IDS 1f providing technical and financial tupport to this
sector, and thus gaining a better understanding orl ' " ablems and prospects. The SSE/infozmal sector
could move into maintenance and other service activities. However, this hinges upon greater supply
responses in the economy as a whole, and upon the success of the strategy aimed at increasing the
purchasing power of the rural population.
B. xport OrIentat1on and Perfornmnee
2.12  Burundi's long-term private sector growth is dependent upon a successful export drive. The
current level of export development is low. Imports are more than twice as high as exports and the ratio
of exports of goods and non-factor services to GDP is only 12 percent, compared to 19 percent for low
income developing countries.Z/ Burundi's exports are dominated by coffee, which accounted for about
75 percent of export revenues between 1987 and 1989 and now hovers around 80 percent. Gold re-
exports (mined mainly in Zaire), an unregulated activity, are estimated at close to $50 million but remain
largely unrecorded by customs administration. In response to the increasing competitiveness of the
exchange rate, other exports have begun to grow and to become more diversified. However,
manufactured exports have declined. The structure of official exports is shown below (Table 2.1 and para
2.17).
Primary Export Products
2.13 Issues and prospects of Burundi's agro-industries are detailed in the agricultural sector
memorandum entitled: Private Sector Dvelopment in Agriult. I  During the 1990s, increased
production, and improved coffee quality, are expected to lead to higher export volumes and above
average prices. Thus Burundi's dependence on coffee for export revenue is expected to contiaue for
some time. In order to improve the sector's performance and to create opportunities for the private
sector, coffee processing and markping activities, up to now a public sector monopoly, are being
progres!>;vely privatized under the Coffee Secor Project (Cr. 2123-BU).
2.14 Burundi's second most important export commodity is tea, which contribmited close to 7 percent
of export receipts between 1987 and 1990. As in the case of coffee, most of the value-added is
attributable to the agricultural activity itself. Tea processing and packaging factories provide the only
industrial activity. Cotton exports have remained stagnant over the past five years, and have been
constrained by monopolistic links with the publicly-owned textile complex, COTEBU. The issues related
to liberalizing, restructuring and opening-up of the traditional export sector to private promoters, are
expected to be tackded in the context of the proposed Agro-Business Promotion Project under preparation.
2.15  Non-Traditional Primn _ Exports. Non-traditional exports include tobacco, hides and skins, fish,
plants, rice and quinquina, and horticulture products. These exports have responded favorably to
exchange rate adjustments and are growing rapidly. The main logistical constraint facing horticulture is
the unavailability of reliable, and relatively frequent, flights to Europe. A study of air transport is
underway. It is expected to lead to a set of measures to alleviate this and other transport related
I/ As defined by the World Development Report, 1991, excluding India and China.
3/ Report No. 9686-BU dated September 16, 1991.



-6-
constraints to trade and export development. Immediate measures would be taken under the proposed
project (para. 3.16).
2.16 Mining Exports. Burundi has a variety of ore deposits includirng gold, tin and nickel, as well as
other resources such as rare earth. Only gold mining appears to be economically and financially viable,
given current world prices. A privately controlled, and operated, joint venture with Government has been
active in gold prospecting and plans further investments in development of small-scale mining activities.
A major multinational mining company has officially requested an exploration permit to prospect for
nickel deposits that may be viable given large deposits identified in neighboring Tanzania.  The
Government has requested Bank assistance during negotiations for the requested mining permit, and to
implement the proposed policy and regulatory reforms recommended in the course of ongoing dialogues
on the prospects of Burundi's mining sector. Under the project, funds have been allocated to provide this
assistance.
2.17 Manufactured Exports. Most of Burundi's manufactured exports are relatively recent. The main
manufactured exports are bottles, beer and textiles, as well as cement roof tiles, electrical spare parts,
and garments. At its peak in 1987, the value C4 manufactured exports accounted for about 1J percent
of total export revenues. However, during the 1988-90 period, m&nufactures accounted for only about
5 percent of exports--around US$5 million. The main problem facing producers in Burundi is that they
are often not competitive due to high production costs and inappropriate technology acquired from
external donors. Investments in new export-oriented ventures, and in existing finms, are needed to
improve product quality, and lower production cost, in order to significantly boost growth of these
exports.
2.18  Export Promotion Policies. The macroeconomic reforms of the past five years, particularly the
adoption of a more competitive exchange rate, and progressive reduction of anti-export biases through
trade policy and tariff reforms, have helped increase export competitiveness. However, specific export
promotion measures adopted so far (the duty drawback and partial income tax holiday for exporters), have
had limited impact due to slow and partial implementation. Under the proposed project, additional export
promotion measures will be implemented (para. 3.5, 3.30 and 3.31).
2.19 Export Markets. The EC and other European countries purchase about 75 percent of Burundi's
exports, primarily coffee. Regional African partners are next, accounting for 14 percent of exports. The
principal African importers from Burundi are: Zaire, Kenya, Rwanda, and Zimbabwe (primarily tobacco).
Non-tariff barriers remain the chief constrain upon Burundi's regional trade.  Most of the Zaire and
Rwanda export trade is conducted informally owing to proximity and ease of access. This trade is very
important, estimated at times to equal or surpass official transactions in manufactures: unrecorded
exports of textiles alone are estimated to be around FBu 1 billion -- US$6 million - during 1989-90.
Removing trade restrictions with Zaire and Rwanda would boost official trade, but may have limited
impact on trade creation in the short-run. The adoption of an open general licensing (OGL) system in
Zambia may also boost Burundi's exports to that country.
2.20  Development of nontraditional exports to industrial countries, particularly Europe, offers the
greatest potential in the long run, but may be arduous due to distances, natural obstacles and marketing
challenges. Products exported to African countries will be different from those exported to Europe. A
concerted export drive towards both markets would require substantial diversification to manufacture a
broad range of exportable top-quality products.  Industrial countries require high quality and
competitively priced products and insist on timely deliveries. In order to be successful, local exporters



.7 -
will have to be nurtured and assisted. USAID's BEST project 4/ is providing some enterprise-based
assistance to private firms, particularly in the garment industry. The European Development Fund (EDF)
has been finding a relatively successful technical assistance unit, attached to the export promotion agency
(APEE) and targeted to horticulture exporters.
Table 2.1: EVOLUTION OF PRINCIPAL EXPORTS 1986-1990
(PBu billion)
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990
PRIMARY PRODUCTS:                           16.59    9.53      17.57    11.64    12.09
(of which coffee)                     (15.34)  (7.89)   (16.01)   (9.50)   (9.57)
MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS:                       1.09    1.59       1.02     0.66      0.71
TOTAL                q                      17.68   11.12      18.59    12.30    12.80
TOTAL (US$ million equivalent)              (155)   (90)       (133)    (77)       (75)
MEMO ITEM
Exchange Rate                             (114)   (124)      (140)    (159)    (171)
(US$/PBu, period average)
Source: Central Bank and mission estimates
C. Overview of th Fnandal Sector
2.21  Burundi's financial sector consists of the Central Bank (Banque de la Republique du Burundi -
BRB), four commercial banks, three other deposit-taking institutions, including the postal savings system,
two development banks, two insurance companies, a network of 70 savings and cooperative banks
(COOPECs), several "special funds", specializing chiefly in housing finance and guarantee operations,
and the Institut National de la Securite Sociale (INSS), a publicly-controlled pension and social security
fund. The sector is heavily dominated by the Government either directly or through public sector entities,
although all indications point to management and decision-making processes that are relatively free of
political interference. As part of the public enterprise reform component under SAC-m, financial
institutions will be liquidated, privatized or rehabilitated as required. A detailed review and analysis of
the characteristics and structure of financial institutions, policies and issues is provided in Annex 2.3.
2.22 Financial Situation and Profitability. Arrears on banks' loan portfolio vary from 3 percent to
25 percent of loans outstanding, but do not appear to pose a major problem yet. However, provisions for
risks, which are not tax-deductible, tend to be understated, thus artificially improving profits and equity
positions. Moreover the high level of credit risk exposure, and concentration, permissible under current
Central Bank regulations, makes some banks vulnerable to a downturn in economic activity. Capitalization
levels of banks seem adequate, and reported profitability for the six institutions expected to participate
in the proposed IDA-financed project is good. Banking institutions appear to benefit from adequate
interest margins, supplemented by high levels of commissions and fees levied on banking services. As
regard the wholly Government owned and operated " special funds", most of them are dependent on
A/ Burundi Enterprise Support and Training (BEST)



-8-
budgetary subsidies, and are not viable, while the system of credit and cooperative banks is still in its
infant stage, and is not yet fincially self-sustaining. Most institutions have experienced a tightening
liquidity situation due to increased competition for resources, which resulted in higher deposit interest,
and greater recourse to Central Bank refinancing, principally for crop marketing and export.
2.23  i gEa  Cag:iV. Management staff of the banking institutions are spread thin, and have not
demonstrated the ability to deal with a crisis situation. There is limited internal capacity to perform
reliable financial risk analysis., There are no internal systems of formal loan classification by risk
category or well established provisioning policies. Satisfactory internal auditing and control mechanisms
do not exist. Loan recovery procedures are inadequate. While this situation, along with some weaknesses
in financial accounting, raises serious institutional development concerns, the current financial situation
and prospects of banks and financial institutions appears generally satisfactory, compared to banks in
many similar sub-saharan African countries. However, unless the institutional deficiencies are dealt with
soon, there is a risk of rapid deterioration of the financial situation. As the fimancial landscape is being
remapped, care must be taken to ensure that the financial system will perfBorm efficiently its task of
mobilizing resources and financing economic activity. This will be achieved by seting an appropriate
policy, regulatory and legal environment, and establishing an adequate structure of financial institutions
and markets.  One of the principal objectives of the proposed project is to strengthen the internal
capacity of banking institutions, including, the Central Bank, to enable them to implement remedial
measures and deal effectively with the coming challenges. The proposed technical assistance component
has been conceived, and will provide a comprehensive and broad program of actions to meet these
objectives.
M. A.JVATE STRDEV-LOENT
A. IssuesandCnstrainfs
C=?tral D§Yelopment Issues
3.1   The Role of thhe State. Burndi's formal economy is still overwhelmingly public and is supported
by substantial official development assistance. A major challenge for the years ahead is to shift to a
smaller, more efficiently managed public sector, co-existing with an emerging private sector. The
Government has significantly reduced the pace of new investments in productive public enterprises.
However, effective disengagement from existing activities is just getting launched. The Government is
now expected to focus on improving public sector management, and give priority to the removal of
bottlenecks at the micro/sectoral level in order to stimulate growth. Public officials have also initiated
a more effective dialogue with representatives of the private sector. Tbis is expected to lead to earlier
identification of problems and should encourage feedback from the private sector to fine tune the reform
process. Finally, the Government will be relied upon to coordinate and pass on to executing agencies,
several technical assistance programs financed by donors, for private sector development
3.2   EJ.ersification of the Economy. Sustained growth in Burundi should result in a long-run
reduction of dependency on primay production and coffee exports. Continued efforts to liberalize the
economy and, in particular, to implement an appropriate legal and regulatory framework should provide
a favorable enabling environment for stimulating export-led private sector growth over the medium term.
In the short term, economic growth and diversification will be supported by increasing agricultural
productivity and Improving the efficiency of existig enterprises (both public and private). Thus, more
emphasis will be put on restructuring agro-industries.



9 -
3.3   Industrial Infrastructure. Infrastructure in Burundi is by and large adequate and relatively well
maintained. Within the capital city, where industries are concentrated, substantial undeveloped land has
been set aside for industrial use in a 400 hectare zone set aside following a 1985 prefeasibility study
commissioned by the Government. However, acquisition and development of such lands for industrial
purposes constitute major constraints due to high speculative real estate prices, long administrative
procedures for titling, permits or leasing arrangements and limited financial resources to develop sites
and services. Private promoters have to build connector roads, sewers, and extend connections to
utilities, an expensive proposition. There are no waste water processing facilities. Raw industrial and
other wastes are dumped into nearby Lake Tanganyika, thus posing significant polluting and
environmental safety hazards. These civil works increase investment costs, while creating additional
delays, and discourage investors, particularly small ones. This is a patent case of market failure since
(a) there are significant economies of scale associated with developing sites and services for a whole area
at once, and (b) private real estate investors, either for housing or industrial development, are put off by
the substantial capital investments and long payback periods. The proposed project would finance such
investment in sites and services in a limited area of the zone (para 4.12). Future expansion and
development of the entire zone will be the object of an updating of the prefeasibility study currently
underway (para. 4.37).
Exchange and Trade Policies
3.4   Exchange rate. The Burundi Franc is presently pegged to the SDR at a periodically adjusted rate.
The peg was adjusted in four stages between 1986 and 1991, resulting In a nominal devaluation of 65
percent and a real devaluation of about 45 percent. These adjustments have improved competitiveness
and the profitability of traditional exports, while supporting diversification of exports of non-traditional
products. The devaluations have not had a significant inflationary impact; they helped reduce the fiscal
deficit and led to decreases in labor costs of more than 25 percent in dollar terms. The Government, with
the help of the IMP, is looking for ways of introducing greater automaticity of exchange rate adjustments.
3.5   Foreign Exchange Allocation and Import Controls. Following the removal of all quantitative
restrictions, and since February 1992, import and export licensing authorities are delegated to commercial
banks. Commercial bank- 'ill be given greater responsibilities as accredited and accountable foreign trade
intermediaries, following the progressive introduction of an OGL for imports during 1992 and full
liberalization in 1993. Exchange liberalization, which will include the freeing-up of external service
transactions by mid-1992 has been agreed to in principle by Government. Other key liberalizing
measures being implemented include: (a) automatic and immediate repatriation of dividends and expatriate
workers' income ; (b) increased allowances for travel and tourism; and (c) liberalized international
transport and insurance. These measures are to help exporters by eliminating barriers faced by foreign
export oriented ventures, and facilitating export markets prospecting by Burundi producers. More
transparent and flexible rules are also being established for repatriation of capital.
3.6   Tariffs. Tariff levels and dispersion were reduced, through a series of reforms implemented in
1986 - 1989. However, firm level estimates show that effective tariff protection rates remain too high.
Also, collection rates, which remain around 50 percent, are inadequate. Further tariff reforms already
underway, or planned under SAC-I/ESAF, will address these issues. Their thrust will be to improve
tariff administration, reduce effective protection rates and eliminate anti-export bias. Tariff administration
will be improved with the adoption of the Harmonized System (HS) tariff nomenclature and by the
ongoing French-assisted installation of a computerized customs administration (SYDONIA). Other
measures include merging the service tax into a single tariff instrument, and harmonizing of tariffs within
broad sectors. Efforts are also underway to strengthen tariff collection by granting fewer exemptions.
Finally, much of the reduction in the anti-export bias will come from a lowering of top rates.



- 10-
Tax and Investment Eolicies
3.7    Corporate income and other direct taxes accounted for only about 14 percent of total tax revenue
(less than FBu 3 billion (US$22 million) in 19&6-89), as the budget relies heavily on indirect taxation to
generate revenues. All registered enterprises, including PEs, are subjected to the same nominal tax
system. In practice, most PEs and many locally-owned private enterprises have not paid taxes, while
other firms still enjoy tax holidays granted under the investment code. One of the objectives under the
IMF-supported ESAF is to improve tax administration by bringing these firms into the tax net. However,
in order for this not to have a negative impact on business development, corporate income tax rates would
have to be reduced accordingly. At present, the corporate income tax rate of 45 percent and the 20
percent dividend withholding tax rate combine to an effective 57 percent tax on corporate profits. When
net income is less than 2.2 percent of gross sales, a minimum flat fee of one percent of gross receipts is
levied. Operating losses can be carrtiW forward for a period of four years. Other corporate taxes
include: a turnover tax (IC of 15 percent on goods and 7 percent on services; property taxes, collected
by the local government in Bujumbura, and assessed on land, buildings and vehicles; and a 1.2 percent
tax on capital subscriptions collected by the Tribunal of Commerce upon registration of corporations.
3.8   The Comrorate Tax System in Burundi, if applied, would discourage investments by heavily taxing
nominal returns. It could also distort resource allocation due to more favorable tax treatment of debt-
financed investments and by imposing a relatively heavier effective tax burden an slowly depreciating
assets (i.e., industrial machinery). A good part of these problems could be tackled through fiscal
reforms. In parallel, other problems are created by an overly complex tax code, which leaves a lot to
the discretion of individual tax officials, and, in particular, to uneven enforcement of tax rules by tax
inspectors. These issues will be tackled through the computerization of the Ministry of Finance's tax
department and training of inspectors, as well as the redrafting and streamlining of the tax code. A joint
Bank/Fund mission has started work on a comprehensive fiscal reform program. Its recommendations
are expected to be implemented in the context of SAC-i/ESAF after a joint review with the
Government, Bank and IMF. The mission will also examine the Investment Code with a view to
reducing corporate tax rates, and generalizing access to investment incentives in coordination with general
tax reforms. The joint Bank-Fund fiscal mission will recommend a comprehensive tax reform package
covering reduction in rates in exchange for broadening of the tax base. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government to:
(a) take necessary measures satisfactory to IDA, and as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit (para. 7.4(v)) to:
(i) allow banks and financial institutions to deduct allocations to provisions for doubtful loans from
taxable profits when such allocations are made in accordance with loan classification and
provisioning guidelines issued by the Central Bank on February 17, 1992, and
(ii) rationalize the fiscal regime of financial instruments through institution of a unique securities tax
levy.
(b) issue, by December 1992, a policy statement and a timetable, satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.6(xi)),
to undertake tax reforms to encourage private investors and entrepreneurs, including, inter alia, the
following areas:
(i) frrnoyrI: examination of (a) a system of tax credits on inputs in order to avoid undesirable
cascading effects (deductibility is allowed by law but not implemented); (b) the possibility of
excluding financial transactions and realized capital gains from the turnover; (c) the



- 11 -
appropriateness of the turnover tax rate of 15 percent and (d) the feasibility of introducing a
value-added tax (VAT);
(ii)  (orphrate Income. Tx: examination of possible reductions of the rate over a three-year period,
in combination with a reduction in d' v1dmd taxation;
(iii) Depreciation Allowanc: to counteract the effects of lack of inflation accounting and of
depreciation allowances, which encourage investnent in short-lived assets and reliance on debt
financing, examination of the possibility of faster depreciation schedules on machinery and
equipment, and of allowing to carry-forward losses over five years instead of four years.
3.9    E    rise Reglations. Burundi's administrative regulations have, until recently, substantially
hindered private investment and entry into new business activities. For example, during the second half
of the 1980s, incorporation could take a year or more and the simple (redundant) act of being accredited
as an importer or exporter took more than three months. The origins of this regulatory system date back
to the 1970s when administrative controls were created in response to severe macro-imbalances and a
growing public enterprise sector. These regulations controlled the ethnic origin of capital and ventures
and were driven largely by security considerations. The time-consuming nature of these procedures
deterred many potential entrepreneurs. As part of the political and economic liberalization process
initiated since the mid-1980s, the Government has modified many of the key restrictive laws and
regulations. The project is expected to support further significant steps towards the goal of establishing
freedom of enterprise for all.
3.10 Recent reforms have focused on eliminating redundant regulations and rationalizing the remaining
procedures governing enterprise creation and registration, import and export trading and licensing
procedures, etc... (see details in A_q.12_J). In particular, prior appwoval of Ministry of Justice is no
longer required for enterprise creation. Furthermore, procedures governing investment project approval
under the Burundi Investment Code will be simplified and accelerated, with some benefits made
automatically available to new investors, in the course of the ongoing revision of the Code. Other
procedures related to investment project implementation will also be revised and accelerated through
better coordination of various agencies involved (para. 4.14).
3.11   Effective implementation of the new liberal regulatory system has posed significant problems, as
medium and lower levels of the bureaucracy continue to resist loss in their power and influence, as well
as of petty financial revenues. A priority objective of this project will be to ensure effective and speedy
implementation of the reform measures. The transparency and effective implementation would be ensured
by adopting a number of additional measures. In order to simplify enterprise registration, a simple
Unified Single Form in a multi-copy form is expected to be adopted for the whole administration.
Additionally, in order to ensure adequate flow of information within public agencies and other interested
institutions a management information system will be setup through computerization of the commercial
registry process and files in the Tribunal of Commerce. Finally an operational manual, setting
transparent rules and procedures for enterprise creation and related regulatory provisions, would also be
adopted to anchor firmly the reforms and prevent backtracking. Funds will be allocated under the project
to finance the required technical assistance and institutional support to the Tribunal of Commerce (para.
4.22). The Chamber of Commerce and Industry is establishing an optional one-stop window to assist
private promoters, and fiuther simplify procedures for enterprise creation and registration. The French
aid agency Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC) will provide required grant fiunds, and the Bordeaux
(France) Chamber of Commerce, the technical assistance to CCIB. Close coordination with the IDA
project is planned in the context of the assistance to Tribunal of Commerce (para. 4.22).



- 12 -
3.12   Te Lea Framework. The legal framework and many of the existing business laws originate
from Burundi's pre-independence period. There has also been an accumulation of ad-hoc legal texts, in
the absence of any single codified and coherent set of legal provisions on business, real estate, fiscal and
related matters. Some conmnercial rules are included in real estate laws, others in fiscal texts, etc.. The
present situation impedes quick and equitablejudgements on disputes concerning enforcement of contracts
and property rights. Moreover, there is no clear definition of delimitation among judicial, legislative and
executive authorities, leading to a lack of checks and balances and transparency. Often, the same
institution is responsible for drafting, interpreting and executing a law (e.g., the Directorate of Notary-
Public and Titles). Prior to the establishment of a relatively independent and well functioning Tribunal
of Commerce, in 1988, the legal system tended to be biased against the private sector, both with regards
to claims against Government and in the enforcement of contracts with individuals and firms. The
ongoing political liberalization process has created favorable conditions for changing the legal
environment.
3.13   The legal regime of various types of firms (e.g., corporation (or soci&e  anonyme), limited
liability (or SARL)) is incomplete and limited. Likewise, bankruptcy regulations enacted in 1925 and
1934 need updating. Currently, these regulations are virtually not operational, making it extremely
difficult for the Tribunal of Commerce to expedite litigation, or collect debts from bankrupt individuals
or firms. This situation is complicated by the absence of a clear legal and regulatory framework for
private para-legal professionals, such as liquidators, auditors, process-servers and auctioneers to assist
in the management and disposal of repossessed assets of bankrupt firms. Moreover, the bankruptcy laws
do not apply to public enterprises, the liquidation of which is defined in each case by an ad hoc
liquidation decree signed by the President of Burundi.
3.14   The proposed project will contribute to the financing of legal consultancy services and studies
designed to codify and modernize Burundi's commercial real estate, and other economic regulatory and
legal texts. Satisfactory implementation of the legal reforms will be a condition of SAC-M.  USAID
has agreed, in principle, to provide grant financing of the legal reform program, including the drafting
of the regulatory framework and creation of private legal professions. The Government and USAID have
agreed to consult and closely coordinate with IDA in the implementation of the legal reform programs.
Particular attention will be paid under the commercial code to financial instruments (e.g., bankers'
acceptances, drafts, cheques, warrant papers, and securities) and regulations with a view to facilitating
and developing transactions-based lending (using commercial paper, mortgaging of contracts, goodwill
and merchandise). There will be close coordination with the Central Bank's technical assistance
component regarding reform and modernization of banking laws, and with Ministry of Cc.nmerce and
Industry regarding free-zone legislation as well as environmental protection regulations.
3.15 Auxiliaries of Justice. The absence, or insufficient development, of private auxiliaries of justice
and notaries-public is a serious shortcoming of the legal structure in Burundi. Without these legal
professions, it is difficult, and lengthy, to implement legal decisions with respect to repossession and
liquidation of assets of delinquent or bankrupt debtors. These professions could be exercised by private
individuals based on revocable authority granted by the State. In Burundi, there exists only one official
civil servant - the Director of Notary-Public and Titles and Deeds in the Ministry of Justice -empowered
for the whole country as notary-public, and he is located in Bujumbura. As for other auxiliaries of
justice, their functions are limited and exercised exclusively by other civil servants in the Ministry of
Justice. The prohibition of private notaries public and other legal auxiliary activities (e.g., process-
servers, auditors, evaluators, receivership judges, auctioneers) constitutes a constraint to simplifying and
expediting contract processing and enforcement. Establishment of a regulatory framework is, however,
a prerequisite to the creation of private legal professions. This will be undertaken in conjunction with
the planned overhaul of existing legal texts, under the proposed project. As a condition of the proposed



- 13 -
credit (para. 7.6 (xii)), and by October 1993, the Government has agreed during negotiations to take the
necessary measures designed to:
(i) restructure the Directorate of Notary Public and Titles in order to limit its role to that of
custodian of titles and deeds, and to decentralize and privatize its notary public functions;
(ii) authorize the existence and functioning of private auxiliary legal professions referred to above and
to reform relevant existing regulations accordingly if needed, and
(iii) simplify the lengthy procedures of property title and deed creation and administration so as to
accelerate mortgage registration, and enforcement of related loan contracts.
3.16 Air Transport. Adequate and speedy access to air transport at reasonable prices is critical to the
development of an export-oriented private secor, particularly because Burundi is landlocked. Air freight
to Europe, except for the occasional charter, is provided by a duopoly constituted by two international
commercial carriers. A Bank-financed sector study under the Transport Sector Project (Cr. 2105-BU),
is reviewing policy and regulatory issues, as well as prospects, with particular reference to international
waterways and air transport policies. The study will also undertake a comparative study of tariff policies
and freight costs to determine the possible impact and justification of further deregulation. Air-Burundi,
the national, publicly-owned and operated carrier, has a monopoly on international air transportation
rights, distribution and sale of airline fuels and other airport services. This monopoly creates distortions
that contribute to higher air transport and transit costs and conflicts of interest, and fiurher constrains the
sector's development. As part of the PE reform program, under SAC-HI, Air Burundi is expected to be
privatized, and its monopolies eliminated. To reduce some of these distorsions, while the appropriate
analytical work is underway, the Government has agreed during negotiations to allow, by Mid-Term
Review, unscheduled chartered freight and passenger flights, and establish a transparent system for
operators to obtain traffic rights within twenty four hours. Under SAC-m, the Government is expected
to implement fiuther air transport deregulation and reforms, to review various airport fees in order to
recover the costs of services provided, and eliminate Air Burundi's remaining monopolies (para. 7.6(ix)).
3.17  Labor Laws. Current labor laws hinder private sectr and export development in labor-intensive
activities due to high, officially imposed labor wages and charges (averaging US$85 per month for
unskilled workers in manufacturing), which are higher than in Mauritius and Madagascar. The labor
market in Burundi is segmented into the modern and informal sectors. The modern sector is essentially
concentrated in, and around, Bujumbura and Gitega while the informal sector dominates in the rural parts
of the country. The informal sector provides the bulk of available employment opportunities. The
approximately 80,000 employees in the modern sector in Bujumbura account for only 3.3 percent of the
total labor force. Conditions of employment are governed by the Burundi Labor Code, whose stated
objective is the protection of workers. Tbis Code sets conditions of employment, and hiring and firing
of workers have been supervised by the Ministry of Labor until June 1991, when hiring of workers in
private and mixed enterprises was fully liberalized. The Code sets a minimum daily wage rate at
US$1.00 per day equivalent, to which social security charges of 40 percent must be added. As a result,
labor compensation remains too high in Burundi to promote the development of labor intensive export-
oriented industries.
3.18 The Bank has been conducting a dialogue on the labor Issue; however, it is sensitive owing to
its implications in the ongoing process of ethnic reconciliation and attempts to improve fair representation
of the various groups in the labor market. A revised labor code was reviewed in February 1992, by a
joint Bank and lnternational Labor Office (ILO) mission. While incorporating a number of improvements
over the existing code, the revised text still remains restrictive or unclear in several aspects. Under the



- 14 -
proposed SAC-E, these rigidities will be addressed through a comprehensive revision of the labor code,
Including, inter alia, (i) the lifting of constraints on firing practices, (ii) elimination of mandatory wage
fixing for various professional groups, and (iii) elimination of requirements for 100 percent medical
coverage from private employees. Adoption of satisfactory labor legislation wll be a condition of second
tranche release of the proposed SAC-rI.
Creit and Mona Poliies
3.19 The principal financial sector weaknesses constraining private sector development are traceable
to institutional wealmesses of commercial banks and also to the Central Bank's inadequate regulatory and
policy formulating and implementing capacity. Issues and remedies of commercial bank weaknesses are
discussed in more detail in Annex 2.3. Widt a staff of 437 in 14 divisions and two branches, Banque de
la Rdpublique du Burundi (BRB), the Central Bank is a highly centralized and compartmentalized
institution, with no clearly defined structures or procedures, and until recently, virtually no meaningful
policy dialogue with banks and financial institutions. There are no training programs, salaries are low
compared to banks, and turn over of quality staff is high. During the preparation of the project the
Central bank has come to recognize these institutional weaknesses, and started the implementation of a
number of reforms with respect to: (a) interest rate policies; (b) credit allocation; (c) the conduct of
monetary policy, and (d) banking regulation and supervision. Sustained and successful implementation
of these reforms will require extensive institutional capacity building, for the Central Bank, to properly
analyze, monitor and forecast macroeconomic developments, and to define and implement monetary
policies, or manage adequately foreign exchange reserves and operations. The Central Bank has,
consequently, requested a comprehensive program of technical assistance and training to tackle these
institutional weaknesses, including those of banks and financial institutions. Funding will be provided
under the proposed Credit, and by other donors under close coordination with the IMF and the Bank
(paras. 4.18 and 4.26).
3.20  Itst Rate Policies. Significant progress was achieved under SAC-Il (Cr. 1919-BU) and the
ongoing SSE/APEX Project (Cr. 1889-Bu), and interest rates are now determined by market forces
through the auction market for Treasury Certificates (TCs). The auction system now works well, and
interest rates are freely determined, without manipulation from the Central Bank. Current TC average
yields, now the reference rate in the financial sector, hover around the 11.0 percent mark, compared to
an annual average inflation rate of 9 percent. Since July, 1991, the Central Bank's preferential refinancing
rate of 6 percent for coffee export credits was abolished and aligned to a normal unified, refinancing rate
set at a level of 10 percent, i.e., above the TC rate prevailing at the time. Banks' administered 1 percent
margin on commodities credits, has also been liberalized. The differentiated taxation rates of financial
instruments, that are close substitutes (e.g., Treasury Certificates and Certificates of Deposit), constitute
the only remaining distortions in borrowing rates. Interest on deposits vary currently from 1 percent for
some sight deposits to 9 percent for one-month and 12 percent for one-year deposits, with the bulk of
term deposits remunerated above 9 percent, the current average annual rate of inflation. Interest charged
on commercial bank loans ranges from 7 percent to 19 percent. These rates fluctuate according to market
conditions.
3.21   Credit Policies. The Central bank does not have any directed credit policies, except for
minimum requirements for commercial and development banks to allocate 15 percent and 60 percent for
term lending, respectively. By and large, this term lending ratio is not respected by most commercial
banks who lack adequate term resources. Tiese ratios have no credit control or prudential meaning; they
prevent independent decision-making for investment financing. It was agreed during negotiations to
eliminate such target lending requirements by Mid-Term Review of policy and institutional reforms.



- 15 -
The Central Bank has eliminated the distinction between rediscountable and non-rediscountable, priority
and non-priority credits.
3.22  Re   Requreme. Currently, changes in the money supply are effected through conversions
of external credits and Central Bank refinancing of eligible credits, in practice coffee marketing and
export financing. More flexibility is needed in the condct of monetary policy. This could be achieved
by moving toward indirect instruments of monetary control such as reserve requirements, and open
market operations (OMO). A system of reserve requirements was imposed in July, 1991, on all deposit
taking institutions, but faced implementation problems due to: (a) the target level of the reserves which
is too high; (b) the form in which they must be held; (c) the need to meet the requirements on a daily
basis, (d) the low penalty for non-compliance; and (e) the number of deposit-taking institutions that escape
this requirement. The Central Bank has agreed, prior to negotiations, to improve the reserve requirement
system and to extend it to all deposit-taking institutions.  It is now implementing lower reserve
requirements of 7.5 percent applicable across the board to all deposits of all banks and financial
institutions, in lieu of 5% and 10% of sight and term deposits, respectively, applied previously.
Moreover, the penalty for non compliance is expected to be stiffened and set at a rate of 8 percent above
the rediscount rate.
3.23    On Malke Operations. In addition to reserve requirements, the Central Bank has agreed to
begin developing other indirect credit and monetary policy instruments. The Treasury certificates (TC)
market offers the basis upon which to develop an active money market which, with time, would permit
the development of Open Market Operations (OMO). A restructuring of the TC market has already been
implemented by the Central Bank during project preparation. As a first step, the Central Bank has
lowered the minimum denomination of certificates from FBu 500,000 to 100,000 (US$2,500 to 500), and
introduced semi-monthly auctions. Bearer, and freely negotiable, certificates have also been introduced,
and the Central Bank has agreed to actively participate in the market with its own TC portfolio. It was
also agreed during negotiations that the market would be enlarged by Mid-Term Review to include
negotiable short-term instruments issued by banks.
3.24  Central Bank Refini  of Last Resort. As recourse to indirect instruments of monetary control
increases, access to the rediscounting window will be gradually phased out. When OMOs have been fully
operational, the only Central Bank lending would take the form of temporary overdrafts, at penalty rates,
as part of its function as lender of last resort. The refinancing rate itself would be established in relation
to the rate on TCs. In the meantime better quality control of the credits submitted for refinancing is called
for at the Central Bank. Rediscounted credits are currently not subjected to periodic reviews, and
monitoring. As commercial banks often condition credit approval to Central Bank notification of the
rediscountability of such credits, there exists a de facto reliance on Central Bank assessment of the quality
of the proposed credits. The Central Bank is currently overhauling its procedures to address this problem.
During negotiations, the Central Bank has agreed to present a plan to reinforce its credit analysis
capacity, satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1992, as a condition of the proposed credit (paras. 3.36
and 7.6 (x)).
Regulatorv Framework for Banks
3.25   Supervision and monitoring activities by the Central Bank remain limited in scope and quality.
On-site supervision is limited, and until very recently no banking institution had been subjected to a
comprehensive external audit. And while tentatives are being made to introduce uniform accounting
practices among banks, off-site supervision is still conducted on the basis of inadequate reports often filed
with substantial delays by many banks. On-site inspection reports are not available to the banks
concerned which cannot comment on them, and there is no fbllow-up to ensure that corrective measures



- 16-
have been taken. The prudential ratios dealing with capital adequacy requirements and liquidity levels,
which constitute two of the most critical monitoring instruments for such supervision, have been revised
in December 1991, in accordance with IDA and IMF recommendations. However, the risk concentration
and division ratio, which is defined in the Banking Law, and regulations application to non-deposit taking
financial institutions, cannot be revised prior to the revision and drafting of a comprehensive new banking
law, to remedy the remaining deficiencies described above. The Central Bank's ability to monitor the
quality of bank loan portfolio is enhanced, since February 1992, with the issuance of an instruction to
all banks and financial institutions to start classifying their loan risks Into four categories: performing,
under surveillance, non-performing and litigious ; the instruction also defines new provisioning
procedures and guidelines. Progress with overhauling Burundi's Banking Law and regulations, with
particular reference to the aforementioned prudential regulations on risk concentrations, and on non-bank
financial regulations is a condition of the proposed credit and will be monitored during the proposed mid-
term review of project implementation (para. 5.8). Further strengthening of banking regulation and
supervision will be part of the Government's strategy in the financial sector (para. 3.36)
B. Government Strate  tor Priyate Str Beveopment
In the Enterprise and Industrial Sector
3.26   Invstent Strategy. The Government's industrial strategy aims at promoting investments in
efficient import-substitution and export-oriented ventures. Within this strategy, specific emphasis is put
on attracting foreign investors who can provide know-how and capital as well as adopting specific
measures to encourage exports. The dearth of competent local entrepreneurs and the limited absorptive
capacity of the domestic market underline the importance of promoting export oriented activities. The
implementation of the general policy is based on a three-pronged approach.
3.27 First, an investor-friendly business climate wIll be created. The thrust of the Government's
efforts will focus on facilitating, rather than on regulating, private investment, on providing an
appropriate enabling environment and on reducing uncertainty, particularly with regard to legal
enforcement of contractual obligations. This wIll involve continuing to pursue stable macroeconomic
policies and liberalizing the economhy. Among new measures to be put in place, priority will be given
to: (a) providing freedom to invest without restrictions on the size of the investment, the sector and
ownership, both domestic and foreign; (b) eliminating industrial licensing, except in limited and
exceptional cases specified in a short negative list, and further simplifying company registration; (c)
increasing international competitiveness through tax, foreign exchange and trade reform programs; and
(d) effectively liberalizing factor markets, particularly easing labor regulations with respect to
compensation and hiring. Second, the Government will carefilly monitor and improve its effectiveness
in implementing policy reform measures and in providing better public services. Apart from the policy
areas listed above, the Goverment will: (i) speedily implement the agreed PE privatization and
restructuring program, and retrenchment from public sector investments in productive activities; (ii)
continue its effort to secure reciprocal opening of regional trade in goods and services; (iii) provide
necessary industrial infrastructure, including secure and efficient liberalized international transport, and
adequate demand-driven sites and services for industrial investment.
3.28 Finally, the Government will support adequate provision of investment assistance, and will
facilitate acquisition of know-how and the development of private sector institutions, particularly the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCIB). This support will be given indirectly, and provided and
managed by private institutions, including the CCIB. All private firms will be eligible for assistance in
specific areas such as project preparation, production management, accounting and export development.



- 17 -
3.29  Attacing orelen InCv=esor. Burundi is relatively advanced In adopting economic and regulatory
policy reforms. Further efforts, hand in hand with better implementation, should make the country
attractive to foreign investors, relative to other Af&ican countries. However, given that the country is
not well known, except for ethnic conflicts of the recent past, a concentrated public Infornation effort
Is required to attract potential investors. To address this issue, the Government has recently successfully
organized in Bujumbura a private sector round table attended by some 500 business managers and trade
association representatives and by an important delegation of bankers and donors. Further similar
initiatives are underway.
3.30  Exnort Promotion. Within a general framework to enpourage investments, specific additional
measures aimed at promoting export-oriented ventures are desirable. The experience of Mauritius
suggests that, while It may not be possible to quickly simplify the general regime, exporters should be
eligible for special promotion measures. A number of such measures --duty drawback, preferential
income tax, etc.- are already in place and additional ones, including technical assistance to exporters,
promoting free-trade zones, will be supported under the proposed project.
3.31   The export promotion objectives of the Government will additionally require the development of
bonded warehousing capacities to enable the expansion of free-trade zone and reexport, as well as
domestic trading activities by private entrepreneurs. To 'that end, with assistance from Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation (CCCE) and European Development Fund (EFD), the Government already disposes of
ample storage capacities in bonded warehousing facilities at the Port of Bujumbura, which appear
sufficient to meet current demand. Funds have been made available under IDA Credit (1795-BU) for
Economic Management to further study the economic justification for the expansion of bonded
warehousing facilities and to review pricing policies, marketing strategy and various private management
schemes for the bonded warehouses, as well as for the Port and the Airport of Bujumbura.
3.32  The above strategy and the detailed sector policy and institutional reform measures are reflected
in the draft LettXe of Priyae Sctr Development Policy and the annexed matrix of reforms (Annex 2.2),
signed by the Government.
In the Financial Sector
3.33 The financial sector of Burundi is still in the development stage and thus suffers from a number
of shortcomings. The Government has agreed at an early stage to a number of reforms centering around
improving financial intermediation which is particularly important for the expansion of the private sector.
These reforms include (i) the strengthening of financial institutions and the development of new financial
instruments for improved savings mobilization and greater efficiency in investment lending and (ii)
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework governing financial institutions and improving
supervision to ensure financial stability.
3.34  The ongoing reforms in the financial and legal/regulatory environment, the relatively stable
macroeconomic framework and the deepening of the economic adjustment process provide good
opportunities for future financial sector development. Ihe Government's strategy in the financial sector,
with Bank Group support, will be built around a fully liberalized interest rate regime in the context of
single digit inflation and a flexible exchange rate policy. Its focus will be on institutional capacity



-18 -
building while monetary and credit policies are fine-tuned, and sharpened, to maintain and strengthen the
significant progress achieved so far on the policy front. The proposed policies and reform measures are
detailed as a matrix (Annex 2.4) in the draft Letter of Finnil Ser De lopment Policy signed by
Government.
3.35 In order to improve resource mobilization prospects, and provide additional indirect monetary
policy instruments, emphasis will be put on the development of the Treasury Certificate market, and
particularly on the emergence of an active secondary market. The Central Bank will play a leading role
in this respect, through constitution of its own portfolio of TCs, and direct active trading in the secondary
market. Banks, enterprises and private individuals will be encouraged to place their excess funds in the
TC market. Banks will also be encouraged to borrow overnight funds la that market through progressive
dephasing of the rediscount mechanism and appropriate interest rate policies. The development of suih
a money market will contribute to improving the management of liquidity in the economy, and constitute
the embryo for the development, in the longer run, of a securities market.
3.36  Institutional capacity building will be required to enable the Central bank and banking institutions
to effectively play their assigned roles in these developments. In the context of economic liberalization
and greater role played by the private sector, this capacity building will enable: (a) the Central Bank
to improve the conduct of monetary and credit policy; and tighten its prudential supervision of financial
institutions; and (b) banking institutions to improve financial accounting systems and procedures as well
as risk evaluation and management. The Central Bank's capacity for banking supervision, will also be
substantially improved to enable it to: (i) redefine and improve the effectiveness of all prudential ratios;
(ii) establish, in cooperation with banking institutions, a financial accounting system based on
internationally accepted standards; (iii) finalize a reliable periodic bank reporting system; (d) draft a
procedural manual for off- and on-site supervision; (iv) train its supervisory staff. During negotiations,
the Central Bank has agreed to submit a plan to undertake this capacity building for supervision,
satisfactory to IDA, as a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, and to be implemented by October 1993
(para. 7.4 (iv)). The development of a data processing, budgeting, credit and economic analyses
capacities, with computer assisted techniques, will complement the above actions and substantially
improve central banking functions in Burundi. During negotiations, the Central Bank has also agreed to
submit plans, satisfactory to IDA in this regard, by December 1992, for implementation by October 1993
(para 7.6 (x)).
3.37   Capacity-building support to banks and financial institutions will include staff training to: (a)
develop internal capacity to assess and manage risks; (b) introduce a loan classification system; (c) put
in place internal control mechanisms; (d) establish guidelines for provisioning, and for the treatnent of
interest accrued but not paid; (e) design appropriate loan documentation and loan monitoring system; (f)
develop the capacity to integrate the accounting plan devoloped by the Central bank. The Government
will also utilize funds under the SSE/APEX project (Cr. 1889-BU) to finance training courses for bank
and financial institutions personnel. Banks and financial institutions will be required to agree to
implement such capacity building measures as a condition of participation in the credit component (paras
4.28 and 7.7 (xv)).
3.38 Private sector development will require the availability of some venture capital. This cannot be
provided either by commercial or development banks of Burundi as this is a longer term and high risk
commitment which would endanger the safety of bank deposits, their main source of funds. Consideration
is being given to establishing specialized private institutions with the assistance of IFC and other donors.
Owing to the inadequate legal (commercial and banking) frameworks, to the underdeveloped state of
accounting standards and professions, and to limited opportuities, such specialized institutions will
require substantial capacity building and subsidies to succeed and become financially self-sustainable.



-19-
A CCCE funded study is expected to review these issues. Priority actions should, In the meanwhile, be
placed on Improving regulations and accounting standards, and on facilitating access to institutional
lending for private sector borrowers. The technical assistance component will further familiarize private
entrepreneurs with basic accounting procedures and methods so that they could provide potential lenders
with credible financial statements. Private sector development will also require a channel for selling
shares of public enterprises to the public at large. Commercial banks appear to be the most suitable
institutions to perform such task at this stage.
IV.  E PROT
Project Obiectives and Justirication
4.1   The Bank's main objective in Burundi is to promote sustained growth by supporting the
establishment of an incentive framework for export-oriented private sector invesunent. As noted above,
while structural adjustment operations and technical assistance projects have supported significant steps
towards opening up Burundi's economy, an array of institutional, legal and regulatory obstacles still need
to be removed to liberalize domestic markets and stimulate the private investment response necessary for
economic growth and the diversification of the economy. So far the Government, financed by external
donors, has remained the major investor in productive activities, albeit on a much reduced scope. The
specific incentives, institutional, legal and regulatory issues hindering private investment response (and,
therefore, delaying Government retrenchment from the productive sector) cannot be addressed exclusively
by macroeconomic reforms. The removal of micro-policy and specific institutional barriers is crucial for
a rapid and substantial supply response. It is an essential complement through more focused interventions
with a direct impact at the enterprise and financial institution levels. The Government has therefore
requested Bank support in these areas.
4.2   As Burundi has been able to weather external shocks and to rebuild its reserves mainly through
substantial external balance of payments support, the Bank's focus is shifting towards the provision of
investment resources. Other donors are following the same strategy. But effective use of these resources
by the private sector requires significant improvements in the business climate. The thrust of monetary
policy, its conduct and the institutional capacity of the Central Bank to assess economic conditions, set
monetary targets accordingly, and implement monetary policy has a direct impact on private sector
development. Significant institutional weaknesses in this area would need to be addressed. The Bank
is expected to take the lead in these areas in close cooperation with IMF as they directly impact on the
success of private sector development efforts.
4.3   The proposed operation would therefore support sector specific policy measures based on a jointly
agreed strategy with Government and other donors, and designed to foster private enterprise development
through financial, economic and institutional reforms. Several critical measures, already discussed
extensively and agreed with the Government during project preparation and with support from the IMP
ESAF program, have or are being implemented. They include wide-ranging improvements in the legal
and regulatory framework (e.g., rules of entry, import/export licensing); and removal of unnecessary
administcative requirements impeding exporters from taking advantage of export promotion incentives,
etc.. Under the project, IDA will provide multi-faceted technical assistance to Government, financial
institutions and the private non-banking sector to implement and take advantage of the reform measures.
Other donors are also providing technical assistance and expertise in enterprise management and training,
export and private sector promotion.



-20 -
Lesns Learned from Prfious Bak Onpal
4.4   Investment financing by IDA in Burundi has focused principally on intermediary loans targeted
mainly to SSE activity. The first IDA credit line of US$3.4 million to BNDE (Cr. 731-BU) was
approved in 1977 and closed in 1983, and covered investments for projects of all sizes. No project
Performance Audit Report has been issued on the IDA Credit. A Project Completion Report of January
1987, however, noted that the two main objectives of the IDA credit, were only partially met at the time.
BNDE did succeed in improving its performance and maintaining a relatively sound portfolio. However,
while the bulk of financing went to few large companies, experience from the eighteen SSE projects
financed by BNDE with IDA funds shows that lack of direct and appropriate technical assistance
contributed to the mixed success record of projects. In the ongoing first SSE/APEX line of credit (1889-
BU), implemented through the banking system and originally targeted exclusively to SSEs, experience
has shown that without the proper macroeconomic policy and a liberalized legal and regulatory
framework, not only SSEs but also medium and larger enterprises' prospects for entry and successful
development are gready hindered. Furthermore, it became apparent that technical assistance alone for
project identification and appraisal was not sufficient. Hands on and permanent assistance for project
implementation, Including administrative advice and help to go through, and ultimately eliminate, the red
tape, are critical.
Performance Under Credit 1889-BU
4.5   The IDA Credit of US$8 million was signed June 8, 1988, and became effective on March 6,
1989. Effectiveness was delayed by lengthy administrative procedures to obtain a satisfactory legal
opinion. As of March 31, 1992, commitments amounted to US$2.7 million (i.e. 45 percent of the credit
component) on some 57 subprojects involving total estimated investments of US$ 7.4 million.
Disbursements, including technical assistance, amounted to US$2.0 million. ThiBs mixed performance is
attributable to several factors. First, the Credit was targeted exclusively to SSEs with total net assets,
or to investment projects with total estimated costs, not exceeding US$300,000. However, the
creditworthy and viable investment demand from ftis segment of the market was overestimated. Second,
Government real estate regulations enacted between 1987 and 1991 gave automatic first ranked mortgage
to public treasury, ahead of institutional lenders, thus stifling term lending activities. Third, the APEX
project management organization, with two separate technical assistance and subloan administrative units,
did not facilitate resolution of problems, including the long process of project implementation stemming
from:  a) lengthy administrative procedures to acquire land and various building permits and
authorizations; b) lack of developed sites and services for industrial construction; and c) lack of interest
and weaker than expected appraisal capacity, of local banks. The APEX unit at the Central Bank did not
liaise with the CCIB/TA bureau and was prevented from direct contacts with private promoters by Central
Bank rules.
4.6   In order to address these issues, the APEX project is being progressively restructured. A first
project amendment has widened the eligibility criteria to include medium and larger investment projecs
and enterprises, and agreement has been reached to restructre the project management t.its (para. 4.27
and Annex41). The country's level of private entrepreneurial development and capacity was also
overestimated. Government economic and regulatory policies, which were not fully targeted for reforms,
continued to hamper enterprise creation and operation and thus discouraged many private promoters,
including foreign investors. The aforementioned loan guarantee issue posed by the real estate regulation,
Art. 149, the only regulatory issue addressed by the APEX project, was removed in early 1991, two full
years after effectiveness.



-21 -
4.7   In spite of these operational shortcomings, there were significant gains made in monetary and
credit policy reforms, including creation of an auction market for Treasury certificates and market
determined interests rates. Technical assistance provided by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of
Burundi (CCIB) to prospective SSE promoters under the APEX project, was instrumental in encouraging
new vocations and greater interest in private entrepreneurship. Since it became operational in June 1989,
the CCIBI/TA bureau has screened and studied 310 SSE investment projects, of which 98 were found
bankable, and sent to participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) for financing as of October 22, 1991.
Among these, 41 were financed by PFIs (28 for FBu 259 million (US$1.3 million) through the IDA line
of credit, and 13 for FBu 188 million (US$0.9 million) through other sources). Other activities include
technical visits and advice, organization of training programs for PFIs and local consulting firm staff,
annual industrial exhibition of Burundi's enterprises and information services, etc. While achievements
in effective project investment financing have fallen short of expectations, as indicated above, the
technical assistance unit has shown its usefilness in several areas. Other donors, notably USAID, have
seconded staff to the CCIB/SSE bureau, and contributed to its greater impact. New computer- assisted
project appraisal methodology (i.e., a software called LEFA), and procedures were developed by the
CCIB and adapted to local conditions. 'he LEFA software, and its accompanying appraisal procedures,
have been purchased and adopted by some local bankers and consultant firms J/. The technical
assistance program was consequently renewed for an additional two-year period through March 1993,
following a request from the authorities, and in order to consolidate the acquired experience and maintain
needed technical assistance to Burundi entrepreneurs and promoters.
Project Description and Design
4.8   The project consists of  line of credit for productive investments, support to industrial
infrastrucre, improvements in the business environment and in financial intermediation, and technical
assistance in support of private sector development.
A. Credit CQmpogLne
4.9   The cost of the credit component (subproject investment financing) is estimated at US$22.1
million based on the pipeline of projects approved by the National Investment Commission (para. 2.8)
and on the list of likely investment financing submitted by the financial institutions which are expected
to participate in the project. These estimates were reviewed to establish the prospects and viability of
individual investmient proposals, and their expected implementation schedules. Taking into account likely
equity and other funding by PFPs, notably BNDE's foreign exchange resources, IDA financing will be
through an APEX line of credit of US$11.0 million to provide foreign exchange, through eligible
fnancial intermediaries, to finance economically viable, financially profitable and environmentally sound
projects submitted by local and foreign private borrowers. Eligible projects include: (i) investment
projects in all productive sectors, with particular emphasis on export-oriented manufacturing, small-scale
mining, and agro-industrial projeets; and (ii) modernization of equipment, rehabilitation and restructuring
of productive private firms, including newly privatized public enterprises;
4.10  Assuming the continuing puruit of flexible exchange rate policies, and timely implementation of
business environment policy reform measures, it is expected that substantial demand will be forthcoming
E/ The LEFA programn was also successfully presented in Zaire through BEDEPE, the IDA
financed SSE project management unit under Credit 1791-ZR. Loca PFIs have requested
adaptation of the program.



-22 -
for efficient import substituting and export-oriented projects, including small-scale mining ventures. On
the basis of survey work on investor interest, and assuming continued and speedy implementation of the
legal and regulatory reforms, the prospective economy-wide Investment demand is estimated to range
from US$15 to US$20 million a year for the next four to five years. On a commitment basis such levels
of investment demand imply an annual gross term credit demand of US$10 to US$15 million In local and
foreign currencies.
4.11  Taking into account the implementation experience of investment projects, and the supply of term
credit resources in the banking system and from external donors, including IFC's Africa Enterprise Fund,
it is estimated that during the commitment period of September 1992 - June 30, 1997, demand for IDA
funds would amount to 25.0 percent of the total estimated term credit demand of US$40 to US$50
million, i.e., US$10.0 to US$12.5 million.
B. Sites and Services C:oMponen
4.12  To further ease the constraints faced by most promoters in project implementation due to lack of
developed industrial plots in Bujumbura, funds would be made available to the Ministry of Public Works
and Urban Development for a limited investment program in sites and services (e.g., access roads, utility
and telecommunication networks). Under the proposed project, industrial plots, including road network,
would be developed in a 45 hectare area (i.e., 11.3 percent of the total surface of the industrial zone) and
sold to private investors for relocation and/or plant construction. Actual demand for sites and services,
screened and registered, at the Directorate of Urban Development amounts to 71 promoters, of whom
38 requesting to build an industrial plant and 33 for commercial, artisanal, warehousing and other service
industries. Based on this identified demand and potential requirements of industry, commerce and
transport activities expected to build plant sheds and warehouses in the next four to five years, 90 lots
of 2,500 square meters on average will be developed with a total usable surface of 30 hectares (i.e., 67
percent of the land mass, with 15 hectares going for access and other secondary road networks). Tle
lots would range in sizes from 400 to 2,000 square meters for artisans to 2,000 to 10,000 square meters
for industrial and other uses.
4.13 Estimated InvesNMent Cost. The total estimated investment cost Is detailed in Annex 4.3, and
involves construction of primary and secondary access roads, connections to existing utility lines, and
consultant services, amounting to US$3.9 million. IDA financing will amount to US$3.5 million through
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, with Government funding of US$0,4 million.
Consistent with Bank policy on infrastructure financing, cost recovery for all investments, except for the
paving of a 2-km access road that wIll service the entire industrial zone, would amnount to an estimated
US$2.8 million, or 72 percent of the total investment cost. In order to ensure free and transparent access
to plots by both local and foreign private entrepreneurs, at market-based selling prices, agreement was
reached with the Government to market developed plots through an auction system. Marketng policies
will be implemented through an independent commission, including private sector representatives from
the CCIB, the Director of the proposed IDA Project Management Unit, and Directorate of Urban
Development.
4.14 Availability of developed plots alone would not be sufficient to spur project implementation and
improve investment prospects. Administrative procedures govering land acquisition and titling, various
building and utility permits will, at the same time, be substantially simplified and accelerated, and an
action plan to that effect proposed by the commission referred to above for implementation through the
Directorate General of Housing and Urban Development (AnDDAS. Progress in these areas would be
assessed at mid-term review of project implementation. A well functioning and computerized urban
cadastre is being installed with French assistance and is expected to facilitate operations of the proposed



-23 -
commission. Access to .,e urban cadastre files and Information will be facilitated to private promoters,
and legal professions, in order to fiurber accelerate land acquisition procedures and operations. The
commission will be empowored by the Government to facilitate access to the cadastre and to market
developed plots following procedtures and criteria satisfactory to IDA. The creation of the proposed
commission, including the establishment of its terms of reference and operating procedures satisfactory
to IDA, is a condition of disbursement of the sites and services component of the proposed Credit (para.
7.5 (viii)).
4.15  Elnvironmental imoact onsiderations. The Government is formulating a National Environmental
Action Plan with IDA's assistance, and to that effect, a review of pertinent environmental laws and
regulations will be undertaken under this project's legal assistance program. Finally, the sites and
services component, as well as the proposed Af)EB and KfW-funded industrial waste water purification
plant, will provide opportunities to initiate a meaningful dialogue between Government and the private
sector on environmental protection regulations and policy issues. The Water Purification project is
expected to resolve many industrial pollution related issues since, under that project, the Government will
implement new industrial pollution control regulations by December 1993. These regulations will require
pretreatment of industrial waste of polluting industries. The AfDB appraisal has already identified 14
selected industrial firms falling into that category, and estimated the cost of the investment required for
pretreatment. Moreover, the Government will reinforce the staffing and policing capacity of the National
Institute for Environmental Protection, and promulgate a water purification code. Under the proposed
project, subproject appraisal procedures and training seminars will include environmental protection
features. During negotiations, it was agreed to include selection criteria to identify subprojects that may
raise environmental concerns, and require particular safeguards before PMU approval (Annex 4.1 . This
agreement will be reflected in the terms of reference and operating procedures of the PMU, to be
finalized as a condition of disbursement of the credit component (para. 7.5 (vii)).
C. Policy and Institutional Reform Cormonent
4.16  To further encourage private, and particularly foreign investors, the project will also seek to
create a more propitious and open business environment likely to streamline rules of entry and operation
for new and existing enterprises. To that end, a policy package of institutional, legal and regulatory
reforms will be implemented. The underlying constraints and proposed strategy for addressing them were
oudined in Chapters II and m above, and the Government has agreed to the strategy and signed two
letters of development policy, one each for the private sector and the financial sector, including relevant
policy matrices of reform measures (detailed in Annex 2.2 and A  2.4).
4.17 The two distinct letters of development policy are designed to facilitate implementation and
monitoring of policy measures. The MCI will have overall responsibility for implementation of the first
letter and the Central Bank for the second. To ensure timely and effective implementation of the proposed
measures, it was agreed during negotiations that a Mid-Term Review will be undertaken jointly by the
Borlo.. er and IDA, and corrective actions, if necessary, taken to ensure that policy and institutional
objectives remain on target (paras. 5.8 and 7.8 (xvi)).
D. Tehl  Assistance and Trainine Component
4.18 The proposed technical assistance, training and studies component will provide the Government,
Central Bank, private and public entrepreneurs and their trade associations with the technical expertise
and institutional support to implement, and reap the potential benefits of the policy reform package.
Several features of the technical assistance were requested for inclusion by the Central Bank, and
prepared jointly with private associations, and the Government. The design and execution of the technical



-24 -
assistance and training subcomponent for private enterprises, PFIs and the Central Bank reflect the close
cooperation with other active and interested donors such as USAID, CCCE/FAC, AGCD, the EDF,
UNDP, and the IMF. The Government is keen on speedy implementation of the technical assistance, and
an advance of US$1.1 million has been granted under IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for initial
funding of several subcomponents. The technical assistance component is estimated to cost US$4.3
million, of which IDA will finance US$2.5 million (details in AnneA2), including PPF refinancing.
Government and Central Bank finan¢ing is estimated at US$0.6 million. Oter donors are expected to
finance the balance of US$1.2 million on a grant basis.
(i) lb           ai 
4.19 The Entrepreneurship Development Program initiated under the ongoing IDA financed APEX
project will be continued through end 1994, and expanded under the sponsorship of USAID and European
Development Fund (EDP). IFC's Africa Project Development Facility (APDF) has been active in Burundi
and expects to contribute to project promotion and to increased funding available from its Africa
Enterprise Fund. Increased emphasis will be put on project preparation and timely, direct assistance in
project implementation. Export promotion activities will continue to be funded by USAID and will
include, in addition to funding of promotional and marketing activities overseas, specifically tailored
enterprise level assistance with product design and specification, quality control and marketing strategies.
Enterprise-based technical assistance will also be provided through the proposed new integrated Project
Management Unit (PMU) (AanumA), with the assistance of expatriate consultants, at an estimated cost
of $200,000, and of local consultants, at an estimated cost of about US$100,000 over a three-year period.
Activities financed through these consultant services would emphasize trouble-shooting and problem
solving, including advice on technical matters such as plant lay-out, selection of equipment, cost
accounting and marketing. Expatriate consultants will assist PMU local staff in furither improving
technical assistance packages and design, and participate in more elaborate technical assistance to project
evaluation and trouble-shooting. During the commitment phase of this operation the PMU would,
however, put particular emphasis on assisting subproject implementation and start-up activities, with a
view to accelerating disbursement and minimizing start up problems. In this regard, in association with
MPWUD, Justice and MCI ministries, the PMU would devise special procedures designed to ease the
banking and administrative constraints faced by promoters (paras 4.13 and 4.14).
4.20 Both the entrepreneurship development program and the financial sector and legal reform technical
assistance are expected to rely substantially, but not exclusively, on foreign experts, in conjunction with
appropriately qualified local counterparts to allow for smooth and timely takeover by nationals where
feasible. In view of the dearth of technologically qualified and experienced Burundians to deliver the
needed technical expertise in project appraisal and implementation, continued reliance on foreign advice
is expected to last three to four years. As experienced under the ongoing APEX SSE project, it takes
time, energy and patience to get things going in Burundi. However, in order to allow for flexibility in
the selection and tenure of foreign advisors their contracts would be limited to two years maximum, with
preference given to short term, two to three-month contracts in cases where this is feasible and practical.
Expatriate advisors would be required by contract to devote 25 percent of their time to on-site, on the
job training of counterparts.
4.21 Ihe Chamber of Commerce (CCIB) has been receiving substantial assistance from donors but has
not been performing satisfactorily due to limited quality and quantity of its staff, and the still insufficient,
though growing, support it receives from member entrepreneurs. In particular, satisfactory performance
under the APEX project was very slow to materialize due to politicization of the SSE and APEX
promotional campaign, which had led entrepreneurs to believe that credit would be available with
virtually no conditions, and that loans would not have to be repaid. Performance improved significantly



-25 -
only after eighteen months of project implementation, and picked up with the addition in June 1990, of
two well qualified U.S. Peace Corps volunteers whose contribution gave dynamism to the technical
assistance team. Under the proposed operation, the CCIB's oversight role would be eliminated and the
SSE/TA component would be placed under the Central Bank's administrative supervision. Currently,
CCIB is benefiting from USAID, French (FAC) and Belgian (AGCD) technical assistance In enterprise
support, training for middle and high-level accountancy, and for the establishment of a one-stop window
to assist in enterprise creation. CCIB will, therefore, not be affected by the proposed restructuring and
delinking from IDA's APEX project, and will continue to provide office space to PMU staff, in their new
headquarters in Bujumbura.
(ii) The Legal Assistance -Progam
4.22  This component. will Include three items: legal environment, paralegal activlties and operation of
the Tribunal of Commerce. Consultancy services will be provided to the Public Enterprise Reform Office
(Service Charge des Enterprises Pub!iques - SCEP) in the Prime Minister's office to reform various legal
texts governing business enterprise activities, including Burundi's outdated commercial code, real estate
regulations, environmental protection laws, etc.. The estimated consultant services, training, and other
costs amount to US$520,000 for implementation of some of the projected legal reforms, and for the
creation, and establishment, of a regulatory framework of new paralegal professions, such as private
notaries- public, process-servers, and other auxiliary legal activities. The studies already undertaken by
CCIB, and the Ministry of Justice, will be expanded to include financial feasibility studies and assessment
of the financial requirements and viability of the proposed private legal professions. As USAID is
expected to fund most of the legal reforms, under the proposed Credit, only US$70,000 is allocated to
this component. Funds amounting to US$150,000 will also be allocated from the credit to improve the
processing and administrative capacity of the Tribunal of Commerce created in 1987. The Tribunal,
which has so far handled over 700 cases, still lacks the most elementary office equipment and facilities
to efficiently and speedily deliver the legal services required by a growing private sector: litigations,
registration of various types of contracts, including loans and guarantees, commercial registry
administration, etc.. Such equipment will be supplied under the project. The Tribunal also collects
various fees that accrue to the general budget without allocating for its own financing requirements.
These fees will be reviewed during the proposed fiscal reform studies (para. 3.8). The Tribunal's
commercial registry system and archives need to be better organized and computerized to facilitate
document filing, information retrieval and research, and to safeguard the vital business archives. The
Tribunal staff also requires some minimal training in basic accounting and financial analysis, as well as
in business English language to help them better understand and handle business litigation originating in
neighboring Anglophone, as well as in Francophone, trading partners.
(iii) Assistance for Policy and Technical Assistance Coordination
4.23   Several ongoing and planned technical assistance and studies programs are targeting enterprise
and export development in Burundi. A three-person USAID funded team of experts has been in Burundi
since September 1991, for a three-year assignment to assist export as well as private enterprise
development and promotion. The team is working with the Chamber of Commerce and the Agence de
Promotion des Echanges Extdrieurs (APEE), the official public export promotion agency of Burundi. A
USAID-funded team of legal consultants is also expected in Burundi.  Moreover, the EDF is also
planning a technical assistance program in the same field and is expected to undertake a country-wide
export promotion study for the formulation of a comprehensive strategy for Burundi in close coordination
with IDA. Furthermore, the UNDP has commissioned studies for a private sector development project
currently under preparation and expected to focus on micro enterprise and rural development activities.



-26 -
An ongoing EDF fRnded assistance to APEE is currently targeting horticultute export activities and
promotion.
4.24  Both donors and the Government agreed on the necessity to rationalize and coordinate these
technical assistance projects. To address this need, the Government requested that IDA fund a small
Policy Advisory and Coordinating Unit (PCU) to help implement a coherent and comprehensive private
sector and export promotion strategy, and to coordinate and optimize the various donor programs of
assistance available to that effect. The unit will be staffed by two full time Burundian consultant experts
assisted by an expatriate advisor on a full or part-time basis. The unit would be located in the MCI
Minister's cabinet and report directly to him. A small study fund, minimum administrative equipment,
and recurrent costs would bring the estimated total cost to US$445,000 over three years. Agreement on
the terns of reference, staffing and operating procedure of the unit is a condition of disbursement of the
credit component of the proposed project (para. 7.5 (vii)).
(iv) Assis_ce to Ministrv of Enerey and Mining
4.25 The Ministry of Energy and Mining has requested Bank assistance for the funding of a legal
mining advisor and a mining expert to advise in the negotiations for nickel mining exploration with a
major multinational corporation, to initiate reforms of its mining regulations and codes, and to Improve
the institutional capacity of the Directorate General of Geology and Mining. The estimated cost of the
component amounts to US$400,000, including institutional support and office equipment for the
Directorate of Geology and Mining. This technical assistance is currently being implemented with initial
support from UNDP. Funds amounting to US$75,000 have been allocated under the proposed Credit to
supplement UNDP financing, if required.
(v) Financial Sector Technical Assistace oam
4.26  The financial sector technical assistance program would consist of components conceived in close
coordination with the IMF's Central Banking Department, designed to upgrade know-how and
institutional capacities of the Central Bank, and to improve management of banking institutions. The
estimated cost of the component amounts to US$2 million, which the Govermnent also expects to finance
with grant funds from FAC and CCCE. The French development assistance institutions have given their
agreement in principle and plan to start assisting the Central Bank to improve its supervision capacity with
support from Banque de France, the French central bank. Implementation of the component has started
with PPF financing pending availability of the expected grant funding. An amount of US$75,000 is
allocated from the proposed Credit to the component which is detailed below:
(a) the Central Bank's supervision functions and capacity to conduct monetary and credit policies will
be strengthened through reorganization, training and professional advice. This will involve, inter
gj, (i) capacity to assess economic conditions and the current thrust of monetary policy; (ii)
capacity to determine money and credit growth targets; (iii) capacity to translate these targets into
intermediate monetary base and intermediate interest rate targets; (d) capacity to implement
policy through open market operations, changes in reserve requirements and (e) capacity to better
manage foreign exchange reserves with particular reference to conducting hiternational exchange
transactions, and supervising commercial bank activities, following full liberalization;
(b) training vd11 continue to be provided to staff of banks and Central Bank under the ongoing
SSEIAPEX project. Training will be in project analysis and risk evaluation. Under this project,
an assessment will be undertaken to define better focused training requirements of banks and



- 27 -
Central Bank staff in operations, accounting, auditing and other banking professional activities,
and formulate a more comprehensive bank training program.
(c)  Assistance and training will also be provided to Central Bank for the implementation of new
money market mechanisms, including expansion of the scope, and improvement, of the
transparency of the TC auction market, the introduction of new financial instruments and
securities, all measures to be implemented as part of the proposed financial sector reforms under
the project.
Intitutional ArrangWemnts
4.27 The credit component would be made available under an APEX arrangement to all sound financial
institutions supervised by the Central Bank and described in detail in A1-  Funds under the Credit
would be channelled through the Central Bank to the commercial and development banks, which would
in turn grant loans to the final beneficiaries of the project. The Central Bank would continue, as under
the ongoing operation, to act as the APEX institution. However, in view of the problems encountered
with the existence of two different entities, one at Chamber of Commerce and the other at Central Bank
(see paras 4.5-4.6), the Government has agreed, during negotiations, to the creation of an integrated and
autonomous Project Management Unit (PMU). The incremental operating costs of the PMU are estimated
at US$300,000 over a three-year period, and will be financed under the Credit on a declining scale basis.
The PMU will, under the administrative supervision of the Central Bank, deliver the technical assistance
to investment projects and enterprises (para. 4.19), and undertake appraisal review and approval, as well
as subloan administration and supervision (Annex 4.1?. Implementation of this agreement through
appointment of the PMU Director, approval of its organizational structure, staffing and operational
procedures, and signing of a Management Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank
defining the functions and responsibilities of the latter, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
are a condition of disbursement of the credit component of the proposed project (para. 7.5 (vii)).
4.28  Eliaible Internediaries. Currenly, only those commercial and development banks that satisfy the
eligibility criteria and agree to implement institution-building requirements (para. 3.37), contingent upon
satisfactory, audited financial statements, will be allowed to participate in the project (para. 7.7 (xv)).
An eligible financial intermediary will be able to participate in the project, provided it has entered into
a Participating Agreement with the Central Bank. This Agreement wi!l, inter- Ui, specify that the
participating financial institutions (PFIs) should:
(a) designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed by the project;
(b) perform satisfactory subproject appraisals based on agreed procedures and formats and submit the
appraisal reports to the PMU; in so doing PFIs will pay particular attention to sensitizing project
promoters on potential environmental hazards of individual subprojects, and adhering to Bank
Procurement Guidelines agreed under the project, in close coordination with PMU;
(c) simplify their administrative, lending, guarantee, and disbursement procedures in order to
accelerate commitment and disbursement of investment projects;
(d) ensure that resources are used by the final borrowers for the purposes intended;
(e)  supervise the implementation phase of subprojects and promptly inform the project unit of major
problems expected to delay disbursements and project completion; to that effect submit periodic
reports on the status of subprojects;



-28-
(f) help identify and provide input to the PMU about technical assistance needs of borrowing
enterprises;
(g) agree to receive training for their operational staff and technical assistance to build up internal
capacity to carry out the tasks described above;
(h) adhere to agreed terms and conditions of lending and repayment of loans; and
(i) provide the PMU and IDA with such information as they would reasonably request, including
annual audits of their financial accounts and statements performed by qualified and independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA.
4.29  A draft participating agreement, based on a modified version of the existing one under APEX,
was finalized with the interested parties during negotiations. Receipt by IDA of a satisfactory signed
agreement between the Central Bank and a participating intermediary is a condition of disbursement of
the credit component for that PFI (para 7.5 (vi)).
Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojics.
4.3f  All productive and extractive activities, transport, trade and all other services which contribute
to the economic development of Burundi will be eligible for financing. The only exception will be the
financing of land and housing construction, which will not be eligible. The line of credit will finance
fixed assets and associated permanent working capital for new operations, extensions and rehabilitations.
4.31  Eligible subprojects will be required to demonstrate viability both financially and economically,
based on indicators such as minimum financial and economic rates of return, foreign exchange savings,
job creation, etc., and will have to meet the following criteria in order to be approved for refinancing
under the credit:
(a) a minimum expected financial rate of return of at least 10.0 percent will be required for all
subprojects; for subprojects with estimated investment costs of US$350,000.0, or more, a
minimum expected economic rate of return of 10.0 percent will be required;
(b) The projected debt servicing capacity (defined as the ratio of interest and principal annual
payments to cash-flow generated from operations), should be no less than 1.5 over the life of the
subproject and the debt to equity ratio should be no more than 2.33: 1.0, with the ratios calculated
on the basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to be incurred under the subproject;
and
(c) satisfactory environmental impact reviews to be undertaken according to Burundian regulations,
and as deemed necessary by the PMU or IDA, following the technical review of appraisal report
of selected projects presenting potential environmental hazards.
Sub-loan Procesing and Administration
4.32 Sub-loan processing under the project will be coordinated and centralized by the PMU, which will
serve as the principal link between IDA, the participating intermediaries and the beneficiaries for the
project's investment as well as technical assistance components. Subprojects would be prepared by the
beneficiaries with, if needed, assistance from the PMU, and presented to the financial intermediaries. The



-29 -
latter would review the subprojects in accordance with the agreed project analysis procedures and internal
operating requirements, and submit an appraisal report conform to the agreed format to the PMU for
refinancing approval under the line of credit.                                  1
4.33 The PMU would review the appraisal reports to verify that all eligibility and financing criteria
and conditions are met. This appraisal review would be carried out in the form of a simplified appraisal
report for projects with an estimated Investment cost of US$350,000 or less (within 5 working days) and
through a more in-depth review for projects with a higher investment cost (within 10 working days).
These reviews will also focus on ensuring that subborrowers have undertaken procurement consistent with
agreed Bank Group guidelines (para.5. 1S). If the subproject is eligible for refinancing and satisfies the
required technical, economic, and financial rates of return criteria, the PMU will authorize the
intermediary to present the relevant disbursement documents for reimbursement of eligible expenditures
or opening of letters of credits for foreign suppliers. Subprojects requiring subloans equivalent to, and
exceeding 9 percent of the proposed credit component, i.e., US$1 million, will be reviewed for approval
by IMA, on a non-objection basis.
4.34 In order to ensure continued internalization of project appraisal procedures, and taking into
account the experience acquired under the ongoing APEX operation, only PFIs that did not perform well
under that operation would require prior IDA approval of their first three appraisal reports, including at
least one requiring an economic rate of return calculation. The Commercial Bank of Burundi
(BANCOBU), the Credit Bank of Burundi (BCB), the Burundi Financial Corporation (SBF), and the
Burundi Bank for Credit and Investment (BBCI) currently fall under that category. Thereafter, assuming
satisfactory performance, the PMU would review and approve PFI requests unless IDA otherwise agrees.
IDA would review a sample of subprojects, appraisal reports, and approvals on an ex-post basis during
supervision missions.
4.35 The Central Bank, through its Credit Department and PMU, will serve as disbursement and
collection agent for the financing granted to intermediaries. The PMU would directly manage subloan
refinancing and collection operations upon approval. On the basis of the PMU's instructions and
authorizations, the Credit Department of the Central Bank would debit or credit the appropriate financial
intermediary's accounts, and execute letters of credit confirmations and other disbursement operations
without further intervention in subloan processing.
IThe Sites and Services component
4.36 The component will be executed by the Directorate-General of Urban Development and Housing
which is experienced in such matters and has a well-qualified techWical staff. The Directorate will
undertake technical supervision of the works that will be executed following international competitive
bidding procedures (para 5.15). The component execution and other institutional arrangements, including
mechanisms and procedures for pricing and sales of developed lots, cost recovery, and utilization of
proceeds generated therefrom, etc., have been agreed upon during negotiations (paras. 4.13-4.14).
4.37 The Government is undertaking an updating of the aforementioned prefeasibility study of the
Bujumbura industrial zone (para. 3.3), to be financed under IDA Credit (Cr. 1795-BU). Terms of
reference of the study have been reviewed with the Government to ensure that environmental impact
issues are addressed. The results of the study, which has been initiated, will provide Government with
options for further development and commercialization of the industrial zone, and for additional
environmental policies and safeguards. Experience to be learned from the Second Urban project, as well
as the expected implementation of the proposed Industrial Waste Water Purification project, to be jointly
financed by AfDB and KfW will be also utilized (paras. 4.13 - 4.15).



- 30 -
V. THE PRO SDCREDi am
Amount nd Aocation of Fd
5.1   The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.0 million would be lent to the Government, which would
onlend the credit component (US$11.0 million) In local currency through the Central Bank, to financial
institutions which in turn would onlend it to beneficiary private enterprises. The US$3.5 million
component for Sites and Services will be Implemented by Ministry of Public Works and Urban
Development (MPWUD) and recovered through the sale of industrial plots. The US$2.5 million Technical
Assistance component will be made available as a Government grant to executing agencies.
Terms and Conditions of Financing
5.2   The Government and the Central Bank will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement by which the
Government will pass on the funds under the credit component to the Central Bank at the weighted
average yield of the auction market for three-month treasury certificates, minus an administrative fee of
at least one percent per annum that would accrue to the Central Bank to compensate it for costs incurred
for the execution of the project through its Project Management Unit (PMU). That fee would be
reviewed periodically to ensure that it sufficiently covers the operating costs of the PMU. In view of the
low inflation rate, and the continuation of flexible exchange rate and interest rate policies, the proposed
cost to PFIs for IDA funds will approximate the international cost of funds. The foreign exchange risk
will accordingly be borne by the Government. The onlending rate to financial intermediaries would be
equal to the weighted average yield of three-month T.C.s. Intermediaries will be free to charge final
beneficiaries the ongoing market interest rates. Signature of the Subsidiary Lo&- Agreement between the
Central Bank and the Government is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para. 7.4 (iii)).
5.3   Under the credit component the Government and Central Bank onlending rates would be reviewed
at least every 12 months and modified by agreement between IDA and the Government, as necessary,
to ensure that they continue to adequately compensate the Government for assuming the foreign exchange
risk, and to reflect the cost of foreign exchange and local resources for financial intermediaries and
subborrowers.
5.4   The Central Bank will receive the funds for a period of 15 years, including five years of grace
starting after the date of credit effectiveness. The Central Bank would reimburse the funds to the
Government in ten equal annual installments starting five years after the effectiveness date of the Credit.
5.5   Funds relent under the credit component to participating intermediaries would be denominated
in local currency, with the same maturities as the individual subloans to final beneficiaries. Maturities
of subloans to final beneficiaries would be limited to a maximum of thirteen years, including grace
periods of up to three years.
5.6   Subloans granted under the line of credit would finance up to 80 percent of the total project cost
for extension/rehabilitation subprojects, and-up to 70 percent for new subprojects to limit the debt to
equity ratio of new projects. Unless the Association otherwise agrees, the maximum size of any subloan
would be limited to 9 percent of the proposed credit component, i.e., US$1 million for all subprojects
to ensure a greater number of credit beneficiaries. Promoters would be required to finance a minimum
of 20 percent of subproject cost for extensions and 30 percent of subprojec cost for new projects.
Commitments under the subloan component are expected to last through June 30, 1997.



- 31 -
5.7   Funds allocated for the technical assistance component, and currently estimated at US$2.5 million,
would be passed on as a grant from the Government to the PMU and other project units and would be
available for commitment until June 30, 1997. The component would be managed on behalf of the
Government by the PCU in Ministry of Commerce and Industry, PMU, the Central Bank (financial
sector), the Public Enterprise Reform Office (egal reforms and assistance), and the Tribunal of
Commerce. These project units would review requests for financing before submitting them to IDA for
approval along with a brief justification and description of the qualification of the experts, and would also
process disbursement requests. The DirectorateGeneral of Geology and Mining will likewise administer
the technical assistance for mining development.
Proiect Management. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.8   MidlTerm Review. One of the major constraints to project implementation faced in Burundi is
the slow pace of implementation of agreed policy and institutional covenants, thereby making it difficult
to test, at an early stage in the project cycle, the effectiveness of such agreed measures, and to change
course based on sufficient and timely feedback. In view of the crucial importance of effective
implementation, and preliminary assessment of the impact of many of the policy and institutional reform
measures, and in order to test the effectiveness of new project management and execution procedures,
a mid-term review of project progress and implementation wi1l be undertaken. This review will focus in
particular, on impediments to enterprise creation, including administrative regulations for land titles,
building permits and other project implementation features. The mid-term review would be initiated
fifteen months after credit effectiveness, on or about October 30, 1993. Te review would be a joint
exercise witi the Government, to be undertaken with the cooperation of the Project Management and
Policy Coordinating Units of the Central Bank and of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
respectively. The basic reference documents of such a review mission will be the policy matrices of
private sector and financial sector development, as well as other agreed credit and project documents. The
general terms of reference, staffing, and timing of the review will be agreed with the Government.
5.9   The Joint Bank/Government Mid-Term Review will: (a) review project progress with respect to
institutional and policy reforms; and (b) agree on an action program, if necessary, for inplementing
additional policy measures, analytical studies as the basis for future reforms, and additional institutional
reforms and strengthening measures. The participating IDA review mission will summarize conclusions
and recommended actions for addressing outstanding issues in a detailed aide-memoire. Implementing
agencies would be responsible for follow-up to be reviewed by subsequent supervision missions. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government to undertake the Mid-Term Review by
October, 1993, with significant Government participation and analytical input, and that recommended
actions agreed during the Review would be implemented in consultation with IDA (para. 7.8 (xvi)).
5.10 The Ministry of Commerce and Industry will be responsible for overall project coordinationunder
the policy component, through the Policy Coordinating Unit (PCU), and will be responsible for the
coordination of the Mid-Term Review, as well as of policy discussions and follow-up with other
ministries and executing agencies, e.g., Tribunal of Commerce, Public Enterprise Reform Office (SCEP),
Ministry of Energy and Mines, Central Bank.
5.11  The PMU will be the implementing agency for both the credit, and eiterprise training and
technical assistance, components. The Directorate-General of Housing and Urban Development will
execute the site and services component, while that of Geology and Mining will oversee studies and
consultancy services for the Ministry of Mining and Energy.



-32 -
5.12 Progress reports on the execution of the various subcomponents will be prepared and submitted
quarterly to the MCI Policy Unit as regard the policy component for private sector (summary of
activities, use of project funds, Implementation plan and progress of studies planned, and reforms under
process, etc.). The PMU, the Central Bank, SCEP, Tribunal of Commerce and Directorates of Mining
and Urban Development, and MCI's Policy Unit will submit six-monthly progress reports to IDA
summarizing project component eventual problems and progress in implementation.
5.13 A Project Completion Report (PCR), the content and format of which to be agreed upon with
IDA, would be submitted to IDA within six months after the project closing date of December 31, 1997.
The PMU will prepare this PCR in close cooperation with the other project units, which will also provide
input to the PCR exercise.
IDA Supervision
5.14 The Project Management Unit, the Public Enterprise Reform Office, the Directorate General of
Urban Development, and the Central Bank, are fully familiar with IDA's disbursement and procurement
procedures, and will require only normal support from supervision missions and resident mission staff.
Particular emphasis will, however, be put on further, and timely, training in procurement and
disbursement, as well as environmental safeguard procedures for the PMU and the Urban Development
Directorate General. The Ministry of Justice's Tribunal of Commerce and the new Policy Unit in
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and Ministry of Mining will require training in these areas, to be
provided through the PMU and Resident Mission by Bank staff and, if required, by a consultant. In view
of the many technical assistance components of the project, intensive supervision (14 staff weeks
annually) will be required in the first two years after effectfveness. Detailed IDA supervision plans into
key activities are given in Annex 5.2.
Procurement Arrangement=
5.15   (a) Creit ComN. Procurement for subprojects financed under the credit component will
be made on the basis of procurement procedures consistent with Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and
agreed under APEX (Cr. 1889-BU) with the participating financial institutions. These procedures will
require international shopping procedures for contracts of US$750,000 or below for each beneficiary, on
the basis of at least three quotations from reputable suppliers in at least two different geographical areas.
For contracts above US$750,000 international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with
Bank's Procurement Guidelines, will be applicable to goods and services to be procured for subprojects
refinanced by IDA. A statement to this effect will be included in the Cooperation Agreement between
Government and the PMU through the Central Bank.
(b) Sites and Seige. Contracts for goods and services, such as road paving and electricity and
water connections, etc., estimated to cost the equivalent of more than US$300,000 under the Sites and
Services component, will be awarded through ICB, in accordance with Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Items or groups of items, required under this component and estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
of US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Bid documents and contracts for
civil works, goods and services will be based on Bank's sample bidding documents, and would inc:ude
safeguards to minimize potential environmental damage caused by civil works.
(c) I&_nicaI.AsistancemandaInig. Procurement of equipment and goods under the technical
assistance component will be made through international shopping procedures in accordance with Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from reputable suppliers. A statement



- 33 -
to that effect will be included In the Cooperation Agreement between the Government and the PMU
through the Central Bank. Selection of consultants will be made in accordance with Bank's Guidelines
on the Use of Consultants.
5.16 A country procurement assessment mission conducted in 1986 found the existing local procedures
generally acceptable, except for preferential treatment for local bidders. In this project, preferences for
domestic manufacturers and constructors will follow the provisions of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
A summary of procurement methods is presented in Tab1QS. 1. All invitations to bid, proposed awards
and final contracts under the sites and services component will be subject to prior IDA reviews for
contracts above US$150,000. Ihis represents 96 percent of IDA financing under that component. No
advance contracting or retroactive financing would be required in this project. Under the credit
component, prior review of procurement documents will be required for contracts of US$1 million and
above for each beneficiary subproject approved for financing. The technical assistance component wil
be executed by six different project entities and individual consultancy contracts are not expected to
exceed US$100,000. Procurement of vehicles, desk computers and other office equipments will likewise
be through small contracts below US$50,000 aggregating to amounts not to exceed US$130,000, to be
awarded under international shopping procedures. An advance of US$ 1.1 million under the Project
Preparation Facility was approved for the technical assistance component.



- 34 -
TaWe5.1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(LTS$ million)
Project Element                                               - Procurement Method-------------------
ICe         LCB          Other          N/A          Total
A. Crodit ComPOnet (subprojects)
Goods. works and
service contracts                                     -           22.1          -              22.1
/                     ~~~~~~~(11.0) IL/             01.0)
S. Sites and Services Convonent
1.    Works
1.1   Roads                              1.90        0.3                                        2.20
(1.70)      (0.3)                                      (2.00)
1.2   Utilities                          1.50         -                                          1.50
(1.17)                                                  (1.17)
2.    Vehictes and
Office Equipment                    0.06         -            -                             0.06
(0.06)                                                  (0.06)
3.    Consultant Services                       -                  -           0.04             0.04
C. Tethnical Assistance Com onent
1. Consultancies                          -                        2.89                         2.89
(1.10)  /                    (1.10)
2. Training and Seminars                  -                        0.31                         0.31
(0.12) bl                    (0.12)
3. VehIcles & Office Equipment                        -            0.84                         0.84
(0.13) p/                    (0.13)
4. Operating Costs PHU/PCU                -           -              -         0.35              0.35
(0.32)c/         (0.32)
D. EPF Refnancna                             -                                   (1.10)            (1.10)
TOTAL                                   3.46         0.3          26.14        0.39            30.29
IDA                                    (2.93)       (0.3)        (12.35)      (1.42)          (17.00)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit. Cost figures shown
above are rounded and include contingencies, excluding duties and taxes.
I/      For contracts of US$750,000 or below, international shopping procedures - Subborrowers will be
required to submit to PFIs at least three quotations from suppliers of goods to be procured;
contracts in excess of US$750,000 will be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines for Procuremnent (May 1985).
k/      In accordance with Bank Group's Guidelines on Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
;I      According to Government procedures which have been reviewed as acceptable.



-35 -
DisburstmLnt. llhe proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  rediCoinpig ein:                                              US$11.0 million
(i)   100 percent of expenditures for up to 70 per-
cent of total subproject cost for new operations;
(ii)   100 percent of expendituees for up to 80 percent of total cost
of subprojicts for extensions, modernization and rehabilitation;
(b) Sites and Seic  Cmmypt:                                         US$2.9 million
(i)   100 percent of foreign expenditures
for goods and services;
(ii)   90 percent of locally procured goods
and services;
(c) l nchcAl Assistne Compoen (exclusive of tax)                    US$1.5 million
100 percent of the cost of consultants, assistance and training,
100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods direcly imported,
90 percent of the local cost for materials and supplies,
80 percent for salaries and operating expenditures, the first year,
70 percent the second year, and 50 percent the third year.
(i)   Proect ManagentUi
Enterprise Consultant Services                                    $340,000
Incremental Operating Costs                                        300,000
Vehicles                                                            4Q00Q0
$680.00
(ii)   Poligy Cordi
Consultant Services and Training                                  $370,000
Incremental Operating Costs                                         50,000
Office Equipment, Vehicles
(iii)     Tribunalof Commerce:
Consultant Services and Training                                   $ 90,000
Office Equipment/P.C.s                                              40,000
Vehicles                                                            20,Q0
(iv)      Eigi& Enterprise R r   fce (SCEP)
Consultant Services and Training



-36 -
(v)    lStra Bank:
Consultant Services and Training
(vi)    Ministy of MinIng and Energy:
Consultant Services                                                 75.000
(d) Audit of Project Acco : n20tQ
(e) Reinbursement PPF Advance                                          $1.1 miliQo
(f) Unadlocated                                                           $2
5.18 The project disbursement schedule is based on the relevant disbursement profile for industrial
development and finance projects in Africa, taking into account the particularly difficult project
implementation eavironment of a land locked country like Burundi. It is expected that the investment
component would be disbursed in five years and the technical assistance component over four years,
aking into account expected improvement in capacities for project appraisal, financing approval, and
implementation. Funds under the credit component would be available for commitment until June 30,
1997. Disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1997, the proposed closing date.
5.19  Sia LAc . To expedite disbursement of funds, three Special Accounts for BRB3 and the
PMU, Directorate of Urban Development, and PCU will be set up in a financial Institution acceptable
to IDA, into which IDA would make initial estimated deposits totalling US$500,000, US$300,000, aid
US$50,000, respectively, from the proposed Credit immediately after effectiveness. These amounts
reflect the estimated requirements for operating costs, equipment procurement and consultant services,
for a three to four month period. Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will be submitted
on a monthly basis. The Special Accounts and associated statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be
audited annually by independent auditors, and the audit reports submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. Disbursements for expenditures for all contracts for goods and services or
individual items wider US$50,000 will be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. The
documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs will be retained by the PMU on behalf of other project
units involved (i.e., for rites and services, and other technical assistance units) for ten years and will be
reviewed by Bank supervision missions- All other disbursements will be made on the basis of fully
documented applications.
5.20 Auditing and Reporting. Ite PMU and other project units will have their accounts, as well as
the Special Accounts and SOEs audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and will
furnish to IDA certified copies of their audited accounts together with the corresponding management
letters within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The PMU will submit to IDA quarterly and annual
progress reports (including financial and budgetary accounts) on the technical assistance and the
investment components. Furthermore, the PMU will review the annual audits of Participating Financial
Intermediaries and inforrm IDA of the conclusions of such audit reviews.



- 37 -
Estimated Project Coss and Financing Pan
5.21 Total project cost Is estimated at US$30.3 million equivalent, of which US$20.5 million
equivalent (68.0 percent) would be in foreign exchange. A summary of the project cost and its expected
financing are given in the table below:
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Locral      Foreian      Total
- (USS1,000)…---------
A)  Xnvestmefta
Subprojects                                 8,100.0      14,000.0    22,1D.0
Sites and Services                            90.300.0                3.Q03.0
Subtotal                                    9.000.0      17.000.0    2§.QM.0
(B)  Technical Assistance and Trainkno
Project Management                            300.0          40.0      340.0
Enterprise Consultant Services                100.0         240.0      340.0
Ministry of Mining*                             -           400.0      400.0
Legal Reforms*                                145.0         375.0       S20.0
Tribunal of Commerce*                          30.0         150.0       M0.0
Central Bank - BRB*                             -         2,060.0    2,060.0
Ministry of Commerce & Industry*              250.0       .20.Q        4DQ
Subtotal                                    _825.A        3,465,0    4.WO
TOTAL                                             9,825.0     20,465.0    30,290.0
* Advanced Funding under PPF
Financing Plant
Amounts        Percentages
(US$1,000)
Investment Proiects
Subborrowers                                      5,100.0            22.60
Participating Institutions                        6,000.0            31.70
IDA                                              11.000.0            45.7Q
Subtotal                                        22,100,0            100,00
Sites and Services
Borrower                                            400.0            10.26
IDA                                                  0.0             89.74
Subtotal                                          3.900.O            00.00
Technieal Assistance
Borrower                                            600.0             2.00
Other Donors                                      1,190.0            28.80
IDA                                              2.500.0             69.20
Subtotal                                          4,290,0           100.0Q
TOTAL                                            30,290.0           100.00
.m-.mm--           smuinmi



- 38 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND MISKS
Benefits
6.1    Major expected benefits would stem from an enhanced supply response to the ongoing structural
adjustment efforts through the implementation of local and foreign private investments that would in turn
contribute to attaining Burundi's export diversification and growth objectives. Rapid response by private
sector Investors would create the employment opportunities that are critical for supporting the public
sector retrenchment from productive activities. The project is expected to contribute to the achievement
of these objectives through the provision of long-term credit and the creation of a fully liberalized
business environment, including freedom to create and operate an enterprise, and a reliable legal system
guaranteeing transparent enforcement of contractual agreements between lenders and borrowers in
particular. By supporting effective monetary and credit policies, and promoting better managed banking
institutions, the project would improve their capacities for increased resource mobilization, and
diversified and expanded risk taking activities in productive sectors.
RisMA
6.2   The Government of Burundi is currently undertaking a two-pronged series of major political and
economic reforms designed to lead to greater national unity, and opening-up the political system while
maintaining the thrust of the economic adjustment process, and liberalization of the legal and regulatory
environment. The process of fully revamping the legal and regulatory framework for enterprises and
banks, as well as the introduction of substantial fiscal and labor policies may experience some delays in
the political transition period. This could mean that the implementation of a well focused private sector
development strategy could be lengthy, thereby creating a risk that the pace of private sector investment
would be slower than expected. These risks will be monitored closely in the context of implementation
of the proposed SAC-HI and IMF ESAF, and through an early assessment undertaken during the Mid-
Term Review of project implementation planned for October 1993. Furthermore, the consensus built
around the need for effective reform of the business environment and the strong voice of a rapidly
emerging private sector should ensure the effective implementation of the project.
VII. A_RE_ME S AND  NERSTANDIS REA_CfD
7.1   During project preparation and appraisal, the following measures, which were identified as urgent,
and expected to be in place prior to negotiations of the proposed credit, have been enacted and
implemented by the Government, with support from the ESAF/SAC-M operations in some cases:
Private Sector Development Policies
(a) Enterprise Regulation
Simplification of regulations for enterprise creation and operation, and for import and export
activities, elimination of redundant procedures and controls, and of prior approval of Ministry
of Justice with respect to enterprise creation; elimination of requirements for a commercial
identification card for registered business enterprises and individuals (para. 3.10 and Annex&2,
para. 4).



- 39 -
(b) ImportfExrx Licensing
Elimination of Central Bank role in the administration of procedures for import and export
licensing of business firms and individuals, in favor of increased delegation of responsibilities for
such licensing to commercial banks; elimination of prior accreditation of exporters and importers
by Ministry of Commerce and Industry; elimination of compulsory deposits by foreign importers
(para. 4 of Annx 2.1;
(c)  Foreign Exchange Controls
Liberalization of controls limiting the transfers overseas of business earned divldends and of
salaries of foreign workers in Burundi; and increased foreign exchange allowances for business
travel and tourism; and liberalized international transport and insurance (para. 3.5).
Financial Sector Development Policies
Elimination of Central Bank preferential rediscount of 6 percent, and institution of a single
rediscount rate of 10 percent, i.e., at a level above the then prevailing average yield of 3-month
Treasury certificates (para 3.20);
Elimination of distinction between priority and non-priority sectors, and between rediscountable
and non-rediscountable credits, in allocating credits (para. 3.21);
Establishment and implementation of reserve requirements (para. 3.22);
Reduction of minimum face value of Treasury certificates, from FBU 500,000 to 100,000
(UIS$ 2,500. to 500) and introduction of semi-monthly auctions of Treasury certificates (para.
3.23);
7.2   During negotiations, agreements and understandings on the following additional policy and
institutional measures, and project implementation related measures, have been reached:
7.3   Policy Reform Measures
(i) Signature by the Government of the Letters of Development Policy for the Private
Sector, and the Financial Sector, including the annexed matrices of dated policy and
institutional reform measures (paras 3.32, 3.34);
(ii)  Issuance by the Central Bank of instructions to banks and financial institutions,
satisfactory to IDA, defining (a) loan classification and provisioning guidelines on
February 17, 1992, and (b) capital adequacy requirement ratio (Cooke ratio), and
liquidity level ratio on December 30, 1991 (para. 3.25). The Central Bank has also
agreed to redefine and extend the application of reserve requirements to all banks and
financial institutions receiving deposits (paras. 3.22).
B. Cn_dtions ot Creit Effectiyns
7.4   Project Implementation
(iii) Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Central Bank and
Government (para. 5.2).



-40-
Fjnancial Sector Policies
(iv) the Central Bank will have submitted an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to reinforce
the staffing capacity and performance of its Inspection Department, and, to improve
on-site and off-site inspection, and controls, of banks and financial institutions (para.
3.36). This plan would be implemented by October 1993, before Mid-term Review.
PrivateSctor Policies
(v) The Government will take necessary measures to (a) allow tax-deductibility of
provisions against risks of losses on doubtful loans of banks, based on the Central
Bank's new guidelines on bank loan risk classification and provisions thereof, and (b)
rationalize the fiscal regime of financial instruments (para. 3.8).
C. Conditions of DisbursOmt
7.5       (vi) Signature of the Participation Agreement by eligible PFPs and the Central Bank is a
condition of disbursement of the credit component for each PFI, (para. 4.29);
(vii) As a condition of disbursement of the credit component, the Government, through the
Central Bank and MCI, will have created the Project Management Unit at the Central
Bank, and the Policy Coordinating Unit at MCI, and appointed their respective director
and supervisor, approved their organizational structures, staffing, budgets, operating
policies and procedures, satisfactory to IDA. Ihis agreement will also be reflected in
the Project Management Agreement between the Central Bank and the Government as
regards the PMU (paras. 4.24-4.27);
(viii) Creation by the Government of a Commission empowered to oversee the marketing and
distribution of the developed plots in the IDA fianced sites and services area of the
Bujumbura industrial zone on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, as a condition
of disbursement of the sites and services component (para. 4.14). The Commission
will also review existing, and propose new procedures, satisfactory to IDA, and
designed to simplify and accelerate project implementation through quicker access to
developed lands and utilities, building permits, etc., for privately sponsored investment
projects.  Implementation of the recommended streamlined procedures and
administrative requirements for land titling, leasing and acquisitions, issuance of
various building and utility permits wHI be undertaken by Directorate General of
Housing and Urban Development (para. 4.14).
D.           1
7.6   Other dated covenants are detailed in the policy matrices of reform measures in Annexes 2.2 and
2A, including In particular:
(ix) Simplification of procedures for authorization of unscheduled freight and passenger
charter flights, by Mid-Term Review; implementation of air transport deregulation,
privatization and elimination of Air Bumndi monopolies under SAC-m (para. 3.16);
(x) Submission by the Central Bank of action plans satisfactory to IDA, to reinforce the
staffing capacity and performance of its Research and Credit Department, and, inter



-41-
alia, improve macro- economic, monetary and credit policy analysis, and bank lending
policy formulation and monitoring, and credit management and monitoring, with
particular reference to rediscountable credits, and economic and financial analysis of
Investment and other lending operations requiring Central Bank review or approval,
and financial analysis of business firms. Such action plans will be submitted by
December 1992 and implemented by October 1993 (paras. 3.24 - 3.36 and MAu_lq 2,
para. 40);
(xi) Adoption before December 1992, by Government of a Policy Statement on tax reform,
based on a timetable of implementation satisfactory to IDA, aimed at (a) a reduction
of corporate income and dividend taxation rates, (b) institution of official schedules of
depreciation allowances, and of a five-year tax credit allowance for operating losses of
business firms (para. 3.8);
(xii) Signature by Government of a decree satisfactory to IDA reforming and decentralizing
the Directorate of Notary Public and authorizing the creation and functioning of private
paralegal professions including notaries-public, process-servers, liquidators and
auctioneers (para. 3.15).
E. Eligibility Conditions of Particinating Flnanipglnter-mediarj
7.7     (xiii) Each PFI will submit independently audited and satisfactory financial accounts and
statements on their financial and operating results (para. 4.28);
(xiv) Signature of Participating Agreement with the Central Bank (para. 4.29);
(xv) Each PFI will submit to the Central Bank acceptable plans (paras. 3.37 - 4.28):
- to reinforce their loan supervision and collection of bad debts;
- to reinforce their internal auditing and accounting control procedures;
- to upgrade and train their professional and junior professional staff.
F. Mid-Term Review of Project Implementation
7.8      (xvi) Agreement by the Government to (a) undertake jointly with IDA by October 1993 a
Mid-Term Review of progress in project implementation, with particular reference to
policy and institutional reform measures, and (b) take action, as required, to implement
the recommendations stemming from such review (paras. 5.8 - 5.9).



-Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 4
BURNJ)-PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AM  EXPR  PRO-MOTON PROJET
Status of Business and Enterprise Rejulator1 Reforms
Background
1.      Studies undertaken during project preparation had identified a number of core reforms aimed
at streamlining and simplifying enterprise creation procedures and business licensing. The adoption of
these reforms and implementation of accompanying supporting measures were set as conditions of
negotiation of the proposed private sector project. The Government began the deregulation process in
late 1990. The implementation of this undertaking was monitored by the mission which recommended
additional measures needed to support further simplification and prevent backtracking.
2.      This review draws from and complements separate work by Ms. L. C. Phillips, consultant,
who was commissioned to undertake a more detailed review and analysis of reform measures. This
consultant report not only covers issues related to the effectiveness of regulatory reforms from the
standpoint of the private sector, but also identifies other regulatory and legal constraints that may need
to be addressed in the context of the proposed legal technical assistance component of the aforementioned
project. (Ms. Phillips' report is available in Project Files.)
3.      The analysis below concludes that the revised regulations are consistent with the intended
objectives. However, monitoring of their implementation will have to be continued to ensure that new
bottlenecks do not develop. A possible draw back is that inadequate information flow may force the
administration to impose new requirements. The project will support appropriate technical assistance to
prevent this from happening.
Measures Take
4.      The following key laws have been amended and simplified:
Enterprise Creation (amendments to 1979 enterprise law)
(i)  The t"bicalaproval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is no longer required
and registration requirements under the Tax Code imposed by the Ministry of Finances
have been disassociated from incorporation procedures. Thus, enterprise creation is
conditioned only on preparation of company statutes by the Notary-Public and recording
at the commercial registry of Tribunal of Commerce. Also, publication of notification
of enterprise creation in local, but not official, newspapers is now the only official
requirement.
(ii) The prior anproval of the Minister of Justice has been eliminated. Full disassociation
from the Ministry of Justice will be achieved once the establishment and de-
monopolization of private notary public functions are effective.



Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 4
Business UAcenslng
(iii) The conditions for obtaining the commercial carte have been simplified. Ministries are
no longer consulted and the card is delivered automatically at the time the commercial
registry is undertaken in the modern sector. For the informal sector (street peddlers in
particular) a version of this card will be delivered by local authorities (implementation
schedule is for late 1991). This card will be in lieu of legal status and will specify areas
where the activity is allowed and a broad list of authorized products that can be traded.
The objective is to shelter this group of informal micro enterprises from petty
harassments by civilian and police authorities. This initiative is fully supported by the
USAID who will monitor its effective implementation.
(iv)   porters no longer need to be accredited a priori by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. The Central Bank, BRB, no longer plays any role in the process and the
paperwork has been greatly simplified. The mission has collected data on administrative
delays experienced by importers prior to the ex-post registration. In about 70 percent of
the cases, the accreditation was granted in less than 10 days and only in a handful of
cases did it surpass one month (often for reasons unrelated to the procedure itself).
About 105 importers have been registered since the new law was passed. Some are
existing industrial companies but 75 percent are individual entrants. Given that in 1987-
89 there were less than 300 private importers, this business is clearly becoming more
competitive thanks to the new law.
(v) The procedures for accreditation of eiorters have been simplified similarly to those for
importers and are now undertaken g st. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is
solely responsible for its implementation and the BRB no longer plays a role in the
approval process.
(vi) In the context of simplifying procedures for importers the Government has eliminated the
obligatory deposits for foreign imrters located outside the capital city and for those
who invest in productive activities. Seven new foreign importers have taken advantage
of the new regime and were accredited as importers without paying the Fbu 10 million
deposit.
Other Regulations
(vii) Compulsory officially sanctioned contributions for membership to the Chamber of
merce of Burundi (CCIB) have been eliminated. A non-profit private institution,
CCIB has adjusted smoothly to the new liberalized environment and, according to its
secretary-general, voluntary contributions have continued to flow at the same rate as
before (about 40 percent of resources) if not more so. Thus, total resources have not
declined and the CCIB can continue to perform its mandate, with more independence and
accountability to its members. However, the institution still requires Government
subsidies to continue operating smoothly.
QQonW3pns aMd Recmmendations
5.       As indicated by the above analysis the Government has already met in theory and practice point
1.1 of the draft policy matrix (enterprise creation). Tle remaining condition to be fulfilled is drafting



Amex.1
Page 3 of 4
the procedure manual, discussed below. Similarly, the delivery of business licenses has either become
automatic (commercial card) or been streamlined (ex-post accreditation of importer and exporter).
(A) Emcedure Manual
6.       Remaining regulatory requirements are manained owing to legitimate concerns over legal,
statistical and economic information collection, and dissemination to various users. 'here is an urgent
need to computerize the commercial registry for instance, and to ensure that various administrations and
institutions (particularly the economic ministries, the BRB and the CCIB) continue to receive key data
they require for their day to day activities. Once instiutions receive the necessary information, the
probability of imposing new regulatory measures would decrease significantly.
7.       Another tool needed to help underpin the reforms is the drafting of a Procedure Manual
intended to guide civil servants and businessmen, and better explain to them the new procedures. This
objective is closely linked to the computerization of the commercial registry, so that management and
economic information requirements are met. In view of the previous analysis the policy matrix includes
the following:
(i) The preparation of a procedure manual.
(ii) The computerization of the commercial registry.
8.       The completion of both tasks will be achieved by Mid-Term Review and finds are allocated
under the technical assistance component for their timely undertaking.
9.       The remuneration of foreign importers' obligatory deposits is already prescribed by the law
and should be implemented as soon as possible and the interest rate to be applied should be aligned to
that of treasury certificates. Also, in cases where the criteria for reimbursement of these deposits have
been met the repayment schedule should be published. Reimbursement should be completed within two
years. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of these measures.
(B) One-Sto Windo
10.     The creation of a one-stop window responsible for helping promoters through various
regulatory requirements may help underpin the reforms. However, at this stage technical analysis has
concluded that the creation of such a structure within the public service is premature. The main concern
is that this facility may itself become another botteneck if it becomes an obligatory step.
11.     The Government has authorized CCIB to create an unofficial, optional, one-stop window, to
be organized with assistance from the Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux (France). This facility will
thus be administered by the private sector and is intended to help the promoter.
"mplementation and Technical Assistance
12.     Technical assistance will be required for the computerization of the commercial registry and
the preparation of the Procedure Manual. This assistance will be coordinated with CCIB one-stop
window project. In the case of the Manual the output should contain the following information:



Page 4 of 4
(i)  Explain the responsibilities of the private sector and describe all the formal regulatory
requirements. Tbis should cover enterprise creation, business licensing and other
requirements (such as registration with tax authorities).
(ii) Describe the paperwork that is needed and identify all the statistical requirements. The
information requested should be merged and streamlined into a single questionnaire. The
commercial registry should also contain this information.
(iii) Maximum response periods should be specifled in the manual and a copy of all relevant
regulations annexed.
(iv) The Manual should be prepared in close cooperation with, and formally adopted by the
various administrations concerned with enterprise creation and regulation .
13.     This undertaking will require the intervention of an independent consultant to ensure
appropriate coordination and coherence. In the context of computerizing the commercial registry the
following steps will have to be taken:
(i)  The consultant should agree with the administration on the database, which should
contain all the information required by the commercial registry as well as any additional
data that may be useful or required by other relevant institutions and administrations.
(ii) The consultant should select a well suited hardware and supporting software. At this
stage the use of PCs seem indicated and that the software could be written in a
compilable database program, such as CLIPPER.
(iii) A computer program should be written so that data can be selected and printed or
displayed according to pre-established criteria.
(iv) The software should contain appropriate 'read only" protection of the database so that
unauthorized manipulations are avoided. Also, a simple backup procedure should be
written into the software.
(v) The consultant should assess how data is to be shared with various administration (i.e.,
networking, transfer vis modem, or daily update vis a diskette).
(vi) Users should be trained on the operation of the system.
14.     Computerization of the commercial registry will require at least two months of work. More
than half this time is expected to be spent in writing and testing the software. A related issue is the need
to make sure that all users have access to adequate hardware; one laser printer and two computers at the
commercial registry; a computer and a printer for each of the users. Even though some administration
may already have this equipment, total requirements include about seven "386" type of PCs and six
printers (the commercial registry (2), Ministries of Plan, Industry and Finance, the BRB and the CCIB).
In the case of access to the data by the CCIB some of the database may have to be made unavailable in
order to preserve its confidentiality.
1,A.:REGS.8UR
Vet 2:D.cember 21,1991



Anntx 2.2
Page 1 of 4
BURUNDI: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED DRAfi' POLICY MATRIX
Private Sector Development
AREA                     OBJECTIVE                                       MEASURES                               TIMEABLE
1. Legal and Regulatoy   Create an appropriate enbling
Framework            environment for private enter-
pim.
1.1 EnrpriseCreaon       Speed and simplify entrprse       Modify and simplify relevant laws and regulaons and eliminat  lement
and operation         registration and operaio.         redundaucies. Abrogate system of prior approval by Ministry of
Justice and rplace, if necessary, with a negative list of strategic
activities subject to approval.
Create a transarent regulatory    Wnte a Procedure Manual to guide civil serv  and investors.  October 1993
system.
1.2 Business ic n       Eliminate redundant controlsl      Elminate requirement, or issue automatically, the commercial card  mlemented
licensig of private business     for registered businesses.
activities.                       Remove accreditation of exporters and importers by Ministry of  Implemened
Commerce and Industry; replace, if needed, by a posteri
registaton for statiscal purposes.
1.3 Reform of the        Rationalize and privatize functions of  Separate functions of cutanship of Titles and Deeds from legal    October 1993
Directorate of the   notaies public to speed legal     notary public functions, create regional notaries public, increase
Notary Public and    procedures and eliminate bottleneck.  their number and privatize in Bugjumbura.
Titles
Create pnvate legal functions to
1.4 Creation of private  facilitate and speed legal        Authorize the eistence, and free functioning, of private legal and  October 1993
legal and paralegal  enfrcementof contracts            paralegal professions, including notary public, process servers,
professions                                            liquidators and auctioneers, and eliminate such functions in the civil
service.



Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 4
1.5 Revision of          Rationale and harmonize existing   Complete revision of commercial code and related business   December 1993
commercial code of    commercial laws, and complete them   enterprise laws.
Burundi, and the laws   with new articles on vanous
governing public      enterpnrs regimes, liquidation
enterprise and        procedures, etc.
liquidationprocedus
2. Trade Promotion       Expand role of commercial banks.   Devise rules and regulations, delegating to bankB rpobiltis to    Octber 1993
Policy                                                  act as accredited intermediaries for all external trade operations and
foreign exchange trade and transacions to be legally and financialy
accountable for their customers' compliance vnth rules and
reglations with provisions for legal co-responsibility of bank and
their customers.
Encourg foreign investment        Lerize transfer of dividends and foreign workers' earning.   Implemented
(ESAP)
Eliminate prior compulsory deposits for forein  imp orte    implemeted
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   ~~~ ~~~~~(ESA P)
3. Tariff Policies       Lialize and simplify.              Further reduction in effective protection.                   Under SAC-M
4. Labor Poicies and     Libeaize labor hiring and firing.  Revision of Labor Code and regulations.                      Under SAC-M
Regulatons            Decrease cost of labor. Encourag
labor ftrning and upgrding



Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 4
S. Investment Policy     State policies and principles,    Prep   General Investment Policy Statement affiming freedom of    October 1993
including:                        enterprise for all investos in all sectors.
a) clarification of general policy vis-
A-vis investors;                  Revise existing code to incorpate two types of regimes:     October 1993
(i) an automatic regime of incentives available to all new
b) remvise Inestment Code            investments (excluding extensions and modernizations),
accorditgy                           incorpraing S-year tax holidays and duty free import of initial
investment goods; and
c) provide for grdual integration of  (u) a case-by-case exemption regime granted to activities with
investment and tax codes into one    demo d viability.
single code;                      The regime under (i) will require no formal approval but will have a
registration requirement; the regime under (i) will be granted by the
Investment Commission but approval by the Council of Misters
will no longer be required. Extension and modeniation proects
should gealay not be eligible for exemptions fiom import duty or
d) adopt geneal free trade zone   tanaction tax                                               October 1993
legilation, and develop activities;
Adopt fiee trade zome legislation acceptable to IDA, including
clauses to libraize re-export through entpt trade, and allow
opation of bonded wahoues.
6. Tax Policy            Decaea# distortions in the corporae   Adopt a policy slatement and timetable to undertake, during the next  December 1992
tax stem, elimin cascading        tree years, tx reforms to encouage private entrpreneurs and
effect                            inves, includig inter alia, the following meaums
Pvide further inctves for
invesTent m poducetve ass         - dubility of tansction taxes (CM) paid on inputs for
manufacuing pupoes, from taxes paid on output, to eliminate
casadg effact;
- Emination of TT on intres paid on bank loans;
- Elimination of tax on equity paid at incorporation;
- caryover of lobs for 5 years;
- Lower dividend tax rae;
- Lower corporate income ta rames;
- Autho zed officil amortzation schedules for accting and
finl pupows, and
- Fanser deprecitionof productive asets



Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 4
7. Fi=acial accounting    Develop and improve financial    - Create a board of private chartered accountants and take steps to  March 1994
and auditing         accounting by local firms, and     revise, as rqured, and make business enterpnses comply with
itoduce compulsoy external audits    procedures and accounting norms of the National Accounting Plan,
of entepris.                       including cost accounting procedures.
S. Export promotion     Implement measmes for non-         - Take concre measures for effective and automatic          October 1993
traditioal exporteo.               implementation of the 10% drawback system, and of the 50%
reuction of income tax rate in favor of exporters
Libalim  international air tran  - Adopt a transparent and simple system to pemt fright and  October 1993
activities.                         passnger chater flights on 24 hours notice.
Dmevlop trae-fre zon activities
(se S. above).
Mah 20, 1992



Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 23
BURUNDI: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVEIO T PROJECT
Structure and Characteristics of the Financial  tor
1.         The financial sector of Burundi is in an early stage of development and suffers from a
number of shortcomings. The Government has agreed to a number of reforms centering around
improving financial intermediation which is particularly important for the expansion of the private sector.
These reforms include: (i) the strengthening of financial institutions and the development of new financial
instruments for improved savings mobilization and greater efficiency in investment lending; and (ii)
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework governing financial institutions and improving
supervision to ensuzre financial stability.
2.         Burundi's financial sector consists of the Central Bank (Banque de la Republique du Burundi
- BRB), four comuiercial banks, three other deposit-taking institutions, including the postal savings
system, two development banks, two insurance companies, a network of 70 savings cooperatives, several
"special funds", specializing clhiefly in housing finance and guarantee operations, the Institut National de
la Securit6 Sociale (INSS), a publicly-controlled pension and social security fund and the Mutuelle des
Employes de la Fonction Publique, which provides medicare insurance and disability pensions. A joint-
venture holding bank with Arab partners and Goverment, and CADEBU, a publicly-controlled and
operated savings bank, are in the process of liquidation. Table I (at the end of this Annex) provides an
overview of the relative importance of these institutions.
3.         The sector is heavily dominated by the Government either directly or through public sector
entities, although all indications point to management and decision-making processes that are relatively
free of political interference. Government holds a 42 percent share in the capital of the two largest and
oldest commercial banks, with foreign parent banks holding 49 percent of the capital. The Meridien Bank
of Burundi (MBB) has 25% of its capital controlled by Meridien International Bank. One commercial
bank, BBCI, is 10% Government owned with other public enterprises holding relative majority, central
and private burundian the balance. The remaining financial institutions are fully Government-controlled
and operated, but appear also free of interference. As part of the public enterprise component under SAC-
Ill financial institutions will be liquidated, privatized or rehabilitated as required.
Inslitutiional Strixchtj
Cmmercial B}anks
4.         The two largest commercial banks, BCD, the Credit bank of 3urundi, and BANCOBU, the
Commercial Bank of BIurundi, have operated for maniy years as wholly-owned subsidiaries of foreign
banks. In 1985, the foreign parent companies sold 51 percent of their shares to Burundian interests,
Government and public sector enterprises, but retained control of management. Expatriate management
is now being gradually replaced by qualified local professionals with continued involvement of the
foreign banks. 'nTe policies, procedures, and management practices of these two banks still reflect those
of the parent companies. 'Ihe two other commercial banks, MBB and BBCI, started operations in 1988
and 1990 respectively.  MBB maintains close technical assistance ties with its parent Mdridien
International, which provides a management team, procedures and extemal auditing. A consolidated



Anax 2.U
Page 2 of 23
balance sheet of the banks is presented in able 2 (at the end of this annex), and some key indicators
provided below:
Burundi CoMMeggial ganks a Key Indicators
(as of may 31, 1991)
(FBu 1,000 million)
1 C                              la        TOTAL
Total Assets                       13.6        11.1        .7.3      2.1       34.1
Total Deposits                      6.6         6.4         5.3      1.2       19.5
Loans outstanding                   7.5         7.8         5.3      1.5       22.1
Number of Staff                     200         250         118      N/A
Number of Branches                    5         7           3        N/A
5.         Commercial banks extend mainly short-term credit in overdraft form, with a large
proportion of such credits financing export and import operations. Coffee marketing and export financing
constitute a central part of banks' lending business. Until recently commercial banks were the only
institutions engaged in this, heretofore very profitable, and virtually risk-free activity, but lately, in line
with the policy to Improve competition among banks, other financial institutions, such as BNDE (Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique), CAMOFI (Caisse de Mobiisation et de Financement) and
SBF (Societe Burundaise de Financement), have become involved in coffee financing. The emphasis on
short-term credit is such that banks have generally not allocated the minimum 15 percent of their
outstanding portfolio to medium-term (2-7 years) and long-term (over 7 years) loans, as required by
Central bank regulation. The few term loans in their portfolio were granted almost exclusively to
well-established clients.
6.         Practically all bank lending is backed by some form of collateral (mortgages, floating
charges on stocks or other assets, personal guarantees, overseas bank guarantees, etc.), even though the
registration and ultimate enforceability of most of these guarantees remain difficult and time-consuming.
The numerous collateral requirements are an obstacle for private borrowers, particularly SSEs, and limit
their access to institutional credit. The recendy-created and publicly controlled guarantee fund (FNG)
has not had much of an impact yet, due to limited resources and institutional capacity.
7.         Qber Di   sit-aking k1 titutiok . The publicly owned and operated CAMOFI started its
operations in 1979 with a mandate to channel savings of public enterprises into investments in public
sector projects to support the Government's investment policy. CAMOFI invests in Treasury Bills,
Treasury Certificates and Investment Bonds , but also extends loans to fund large public sector projects
(e.g., SIP, a housing developer, SOSUMO, the sugar complex). At the end of December 1990, total
assets amounted to FBu S billion (USS 29.2 million) and total loans to PBu 1.2 billion (US$ 7 million)
while investment in Govenument securities stood at FBu 1.9 billion (US$11.1 million). Deposits
amnounted to almost FBu 3 billion (US$17.5 million). Though profitable, and relatively well managed,
I1         Investment Bonds, which are the long term versions of Treasury Bills, and the latter are
no longer issued and have been replaced by Treasury Certificates.



Annpa2
Page 3 of 23
with a total staff of 25, the rationale for the continued existence of CAMOFI as a public institvt.,on must
be reviewed. Indeed, its functons could be performed as well, If not more efficiently, by commercial
banks.
Developmet Banks
8.         Two development banks operate in Burundi. The Banque Nationale de Ddveloppement
Economique (BNDE), Burundi's first and largest development finance institution, was established in 1967
as a limited liability company with a share capital of FBu 60 million (USS 0.7 million), subscribed 75
percent by Government and public institutions, and 25 percent by Burundi's commercial banks. BNDE's
objectives at its inception were to provide term loan and equity fumds to agricultural, industrial and
tourism enterprises and to finance housing. The institution received strong support from the intemational
community (the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique - CCCE - provided the general
management of the bank until 1970) and subsequently from the Bank Group (para. 9), and its equity base
was expanded to allow international development assistance organizations to participate in its
shareholding. BNDE's capital of PBu 740 million (US$4.3 million) at end 1990, is subscribed 46
percent by the European Investment Bank (EIB), CCCE, German Development Bank (DEG) and Belgian
Development Agency (AGCD), 40 percent by the Government and the Central Bank, and 14 percent by
commercial banks and other public sector institutions. Though majority owned by the Government,
BNDE's management has been relatively autonomous thanks to the Board membership of bilateral
development agencies, and well-defined policies and procedures that have been generally adhered to.
9.         Strong international support has allowed BNDE to establish itself as an important institution
for development financing in Burundi. In addition to an IDA Credit (Cr. 731-Bu) approved in 1977 and
amounting to US$3.4 million, significant institutional and financial support came from CCCE, EIB and
the African Development Bank (AfDB). Over the years, this allowed BNDE to build significant
institutional capacity. In December 1990, BNDE employed 61 agents. Its only office is in Bujumbura.
able 4 provides a summary balance sheet of BNDE.
10.        BNDE had an outstanding loan porfolio of almost FBu 5.0 billion (US$29.2 million
equivalent) at the end of 1990. BNDE's operations have been sectorally diverse and cover agriculture,
manufacturing, mining, handicraft and housing. About two thirds of all loans are to enterprises located
in the capital city, Bujumbura, with the balance distributed throughout the provinces. About 70 percent
of outstanding loans are medium/long-term. Real estate and industrial loans account for about 44 percent
of the portfolio and coffee crop financing for another 14 percent. BNDE loans are mainly financed by
foreign lines of credit. Under the SSE APEX project, BNDE is the most dynamic participating financial
intermediary (PFI) accounting for over 80 percent of commitments to 45 subprojects.
11.        BNDE has recently taken measures to significantly improve its internal procedures with
respect to loan administration and portfolio supervision. It is currently one of the few financial
institutions in Burundi that apply clearly defined policies with regard to non-performing loans and risk
provisioning. Loans are classified as overdue as soon as a repayment installment has been missed, an
action that immediately triggers a review of the borrower's situation and may lead to classification of the
loan as doubtfiu. BNDE continues to enjoy substantial support from donors and foreign shareholders.
12.        Burundi's other development finance institution, the Socit Burundaise de Financement
(SBF), started operations in 1'-2. It provides mainly medium- and long-term loans for housing,
commercial and transport equiprt. t and, to a lesser extent, short-erm loans for agriculture, chiefly for
coffee marketing. Total medium- and long-term loans at the end of December 1990 amounted to FBu



Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 23
5,584 million (US$32.6 million). Most of its activities are finded through deposits which accounted for
60 percent of liabilities and financed 85 percent of loans and overdrafts as at December 31, 1990. SBF's
financial prospects may be negatively affected by the tendency to transform short-term resources into
long-term loans, which leads to a potentially dangerous mismatch. SBF management is reviewing the
problem and is expected to implement corrective measures. Table 5 presents a summary balance sheet
of SBF.
13.        Special Funds. The Government has established special funds in an haphazard way, without
prior reliable financial and economic feasibility analyses. These fiuds are mainly dependent on budgetary
subsidies for their survival. The Rural Housing Financial Corporation (SOFIDHAR), established in 1990
with the objective of financing rural construction, has not been able to mobilize resources to supplement
its initial paid-in capital allocation of FBu 300 million (US$1.8 million). This, together with high risk
loans to farmers at an interest a rate of 13.5 percent, much too low to compensate for the risks, threatens
the survival of the institution. The Urban Housing Promotion Fund (FPHU), created in 1989, funds long-
term urban housing construction loans with, principally, term deposits, leading to a possibly fatal
mismatch, and increased subsidies. As of March 31, 1991, FPHU had deposits of FBu 410 million
(US$2.4 million), accounting for 60 percent of total assets, and financing 82 percent of loans outstanding.
Both SOFIDHAR and FPHU have a staff out of proportion with their level of activity, 12 employees for
the former and 19 for the latter. These two institutions are not viable, their restructuring and/or phasing
out will be sought as a condition second tranche release of the proposed SAL-m operation.
14.        Savings and Credit Cooperatives (COOPECs). The Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Crddit
were established in 1984 with French financial and technical assistance. As of December 31, 1990, the
COOPECs had a network of 70 cooperatives in rural areas, with over 102,000 members, deposits of FBu
505 million (US$3 million approximately), and outstanding credits of about FBu 207 million (US$1.3
million). A "head office" located in Gitega, acts as a central bank to individual cooperatives, and
manages the whole network. The COOPECs are the first financial institutions to operate mainly in rural
areas. Seventy-two percent of the volume of loans outstanding (fifty-three percent of the number) are
small, low-cost housing credits. Agricultural credits account for 13 percent of the volume (29 percent
of the number) and credits to small traders for 6 percent. On average, the volume of delinquent loans
represents 15 percent of total credits outstanding, but this ratio does rise as high as 70 percent for some
individual cooperatives. This system of rural savings institutions, which has the potential to play a key
role in the mobilization of rural savings and in providing local financial support to rural activities, is still
in its infancy, and has not been proven to be financially self-sustaining. The network is in the midst of
a reorganization to consolidate and strengthen management, with increased EDF, CCCE and other donor
financial and technical support. Internal management and control procedures are being introduced and
effective Central Bank supervision is being established.
Performance of Banking and Tinandal ItItutions
15.        Financialsituation. The financial statements of Burundi banks have recently been the
subject of external audits under the APEX project (Cr. 1889-BU). The audits have revealed that
accounting systems and procedures need to be improved. Problems arise, for instance, with respect to:
(a) the treatment of unpaid interest accruals which are sometimes included in income, or consolidated with
the loan principal outstanding, without adequate provisioning, and (b) the lack of distinction between
"specific" and "general" provisions, and the assimilation of all such provisions to ftee reserves and hence
equity. To deal with these problems, a new financial reporting format has been introduced by the Central



Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 23
Bank and a new accounting system for financial institutions wIll be gradually developed (para. 49). The
development of the new accounting system will be the subject of the midterm review of this operation.
16.        Loa 1pgElio. Banks suffer from arrears as high as 25 percent of their loan portfolio.
Doubtful loans represent 12 percent of loans outstanding for SBF, and 10.4 Percent for BNDE.
Provisions for risks on doubtful loans are not tax-deductible at least, in part due to difficulties in
monitoring proposed tax deductions, given the lack of transparent accounting by the banks. Such
provisions tend therefore to be limited. In view of this underprovisioning, the reliability of reported
profitability and equity figures is questionable. Moreover, the high level of credit concentration raises
concern about the vulnerability of some banks to a downturn in economic activity (para 40). For
instance, the five largest users of credit at one commercial bank account for 40 percent of loans
outstanding, the twenty largest for 68 percent. To redress the situation, the Central Bank has, for the
first time, issued provisioning guidelines (para. 42). Government has agreed, as a condition to
effectiveness, to allow the tax deductibility of provisions realized in accordance with Central Bank
guidelines (para 3.8).
17.        Profitability and Liquidity. Reported profitability for the six institutions expected to
participate in the proposed IDA-financed project is satisfactory (Table 0. The two development banks
have a somewhat lower profitability performance. The two newer commercial banks, MBB and BBCI,
have only recently turned a profit. Although BCB's overall profitability is high, two of its rural branches
are unprofitable. Generally, banking institutions appear to benefit from a more than adequate interest
margin. Interest income is supplemented by substantial commissions and fees levied by banks. During
1990, most institutions have experienced a tightening liquidity situation which resulted in increased
recourse to Central Bank refinancing. The latter more than doubled from FBu 2.1 billion (US$13.1
million) in December 1989 to FB3u 4.9 billion (US$28.7 million) in December 1990.
18.        Management and Procedur. Management staff of the banking institutions are spread thin,
and lack the ability to deal with a crisis situation. There is limited internal capacity to perform reliable
financial risk analysis. There are no internal systems of formal loan classification by risk category or
well established provisioning policies. Satisfactory internal auditing and control mechanisms do not exist.
Loan recovery procedures are inadequate. This situation, along with the aforementioned weaknesses in
financial accounting, raises serious institutional development issues that require resolution over time.
Some banking institutions have launched internal institutional strengthening programs. For instance, one
bank is establishing a loan recovery unit and a legal service including guarantee management and
registration activities. Another is establishing an internal management control unit to oversee the
profitability of its various activities and keep operating costs under control. Prospective participating
financial institutions will be required to submit and implement measures to train staff, and strengthen
management and internal control procedures, as a condition of participation in the proposed credit.
19.        Overall siMgf1Q_n. The current financial situation of banks and financial Institutions appears
satisfactory despite these deficiencies, compared to banks in comparable Subsaharan African countries.
However, unless these deficiencies are dealt with soon, there is a risk of rapid deterioration of the
financial situation. Tlhe special public sector funds (para.13) are generally not viable, while the
cooperative banks have not yet reached a financially self-sustaining stage (para. 14). There is still time
to better identify the problems of viable institutions and implement corrective measures. One of the
principal objectives of the proposed project is to strengthen the internal capacity of banking institutions,
including the Central Bank, to enable them to implement remedial measures and response more effectively
to the coming challenge of financing private sector development. Tle proposed technical assistance



Annex 2.3
Page 6 of 23
component has been conceived, and will provide a comprehensive and broad program of actions to meet
these objectives.
Market tuue
20.        Competitiveness. There is a fair degree of competition for resources among banking
institutions. Both, MBB and BBCI, relative newcomers, have made significant inroads in resource
mobilization. In the demand deposit market, both BCB and BANCOBU lost significant.market shares
(Ia-b- 7!. The postal savings system has been able to hold on to its modest 3 percent market share. In
the savings and term deposit market, the gains of the two new commercial banks came at the expense of
CADEBU and CAMOFI (IMle 8). Also, fluctuating market shares, for each individual institution,
reflect the competition for funds, which has increased in intensity in recent years. By contrast, market
shares appear to be more stable in the credit market. While the two new banks made important inroads
in the last two years, at the expense of BANCOBU, BCB and BNDE, there are fewer year-to-year credit
fluctuations, reflecting a degree of loyalty of borrowers towards the banking institutions they deal with.
However, in the credit market, competitive success cannot be measured only by quantitative gains in
market share. The quality of the credit extended is also a factor to be taken into consideration. For
instance, while one bank gained significant market shares in 1989 and 1990, several loans it granted
turned out to be of high risk.
21.        Resource Mnbilization.  Deposits are the main instrument of savings mobilization in
Burundi. Financial institutions' performance in resource mobilization appears rather mixed. Table 9
shows the evolution of demand and time deposits by category of holders between 1985 and 1990. Total
deposits declined between 1985 and 1987. They rose 38 percent between 1987 and 1990. Almost all
of the increase in the latter years came from time and savings deposits. The evolution of deposits in
recent years is the combined result of three factors: (a) the development of the auction market for
Treasury Certificates (TCs), with monthly subscriptions, averaging FBu 200 million (US$1 million),
mainly funds diverted from demand deposits, particularly in the case of public sector enterprises; (b) the
progressive liberalization, and ensuing increases in interest yields of deposits and savings accounts,
contributed to raise the volume of deposits, particularly term deposits; and (c) wider competition for
funds, triggered by the entry of two new commercial banks, MBB and BBCI, contributed to the increase
in deposits since 1988.
Crdit kisribullon and Evolution
22.        Total credit outstanding by financial institutions at the end of 1990 amounted to FBu 37.0
billion (US$216 million). As shown In Tables 10 n , the main recipients of bank credits during 1988
and 1989 were the trade sector (including coffee), industry, and construction (mainly housing loans), with
47 percent, 18 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of total credit outstanding. The remaining 20 percent
went to agriculture, transport and other miscellaneous activities. There are no reliable data on
geographical distribution of credit, but the majority of medium to long-term, and larger short-term
facilities are approved and granted in Bujumbura for medium and large public and private sector
enterprises.
23.        Ierm-Lending. Medium-term loans for investment represented less than 18 percent of total
credits outstanding in 1989 and has grown on average by 31.2 percent per annum since 1985, compared
to 0.1 percent for long-term credit and 25.5 percent for short-term loans. In 1989, medium term loans



Page 7 of 23
outstanding amounted to FBu 5,100 million (US$32 million), of which 4,119 million (US$25.9 million)
for productive investment. Long-term credit amounted to FBu 4,069 million (US$25.6 million), of which
US$7.6 million for public sector investments. The availability of term credit was constrained by the
system of guarantees introduced in effect between January, 1987, and January 1991. The Government
was granted a prior claim on all guaranteed property (most guarantees in Burundi being based on real
estate mortgages), even when the State had not previously laid claim to the mortgage. Under this system,
a bank may have held a mortgage, as a guarantee on a loan, for 10 years, but if the debtor develops tax
arrears with the Government at any time, the Treasury automatically has the prior claim on all assets,
with no ceiling. Ibis issue, raised during APEX credit negotiations, was finally resolved with the
revision of Article 149. Tle revised law gives back priority to banks and lending institutions which had
previously registered first ranked mortgages. The availability of credit is also constrained by the lack
of reliable financial accounts from most small, and some larger, borrowers. This issue is being addressed
under the technical assistance component of the project in favor of private entrepreneurs.
24.        Term lending in Burundi, which only a few years ago was almost the exclusive domain of
BNDE, has experienced some diversification principally with the creation of SBF and CAMOFI, and to
a lesser extent SOFIIDHAR and FPHU. While the recently created two commercial banks, MBB and
BBCI are showing more interest in this type of lending as a matter of competitive necessity, the two
largest and most experienced banks, BCB and BANCOBU, remain lukewarm and cautious. The ongoing
economic, monetary and credit reform measures, in particular the liberalization of the interest rate and
guaranty regimes, and the deductibility of provisions for risks, are designed to encourage banks to
increase their exposures in private sector term lending.
25.        Burundi entrepreneurs and promoters generally suffer from insufficient equity capital funds.
This constraint, already felt in investment project financing, further complicates the proposed program
of privatization of public enterprises. Private investors who dispose of funds tend to limit their financial
participation in enterprises. Banks and term lenders are not geared, because of the nature of their
liabilities, to providing equity financing. As venture capital firms do no exist, and financial markets are
undeveloped, equity funding resources are scarce in Burundi. The proposed financial and legal reforms
to introduce new financing instruments, particularly negotiable, bearer treasury certificates and similar
borrowing instruments, are expected to improve investor confidence, and levels of equity financing. A
study financed by CCCE is also scheduled to begin shortly to examine the feasibility of a private venture
capital institution in Burundi.
26.         Ihe ongoing simplification of entry rules for new entrepreneurs, and the proposed further
improvements in the regulatory environment, as well as proposed new, more balanced and liberal fiscal,
investment and labour codes, should further boost local and foreign investor confidence. As the
credibility in the sustainability of reforms increases, new investments will occur through the creation of
new enterprises. Existing firms will also rehabilitate their productive capital assets as opposed to
investing the minimum needed to maintain current level of operations. Ihere Is also growing interest in
the purchase of assets of viable PEs, which, once privatized, will have to be redimensionned and
rehabilitated.
27.        While the banks expressed their willingness to participate in foreign lines of credit
earmarked for investment financing, their capacity to provide term loans still requires significant
improvements, particularly in project appraisal, which they have committed themselves to do.
Furthermore, they need to simplify and accelerate their lending procedures by relaxing many of the
redundant and unnecessary conditions they impose on their customers (e.g., requirements to submit
various certificates of creditworthihless, morality, etc., from all lending institutions in Burundi). Tbey



Annex2.
Page 8 of 23
also need to address their weaknesses in areas such as financial accounting and analysis, auditing and
control, and be willing to allocate more resources for staff training. These issues are addressed under the
project and are the object of agreed covenants and technical assistance.
MAnetry =ud Credit Polides
The Central Bank
28.        Many of the weaknesses discussed in preceding paragraphs result from an inadequate policy
and regulatory environment and institutional weaknesses of the Central Bank. The latter devises and
implements monetary and credit policies, regulates and supervises financial institutions. It issues the
currency, manages the foreign exchange reserves and acts as the Government's banker. At the end of
December 1990, it had assets of FBu 41.9 billion (US$245 million) and a staff of 437 in 14 divisions and
two branches. The Central Bank is a highly centralized and compartmentalized institution. During the
preparation of the project, and with support from the IMF's ESAF program, the Central Bank has
implemented a number of reforms with respect to: (a) interest rate policies; (b) credit allocation; and (c)
the conduct of monetary policy. Further reforms are planned. The successful implementation of these
reforms will require extensive institutional capacity building. The central bank does not currently have
the staff nor the know-how to properly analyze, monitor and forecast macroeconomic developments, and
to define and implement monetary policies, or manage adequately foreign exchange reserves and
operations. These institutional weaknesses have been thoroughly reviewed and analyzed, during the
preparation of this project, with Central Bank officials. They have also been raised by a recent IMP -
Central Banking Department (CBD) - technical assistance mission. The Central Bank has consequently
requested a comprehensive program of technical assistance and training to tackle these institutional
weaknesses. Funding will be provided under the proposed credit, and by other donors under close
coordination with the IMF and the Bank.
Interet Rate Policies
29.        Significant progress was achieved under the recently completed SAC-1I (Cr. 1919-BU) and
the ongoing APEX Project (Cr. 1889-Bu). Interest rates are now influenced by market forces through
the auction market for Treasury Certificates (TCs) which was initiated under APEX and established in
August 1988. After overcoming some growing pains, the auction system now works well, and interest
rates are freely determined, without manipulation from the Central Bank. Currently rates on TCs hover
around the 11.0 percent mark, compared to an average annual inflation rate of 9 percent. The TC
average yield constitutes the reference rate for bank lending rates.
30.        Three important distortions in the establishment of borrowing rates have been removed in
July, 1991. First the preferential refinancing rate for coffee export credits was abolished and aligned to
the normal, single, Central Bank refinancing rate. Secondly, the single refinancing rate was raised to
above the TC rate prevailing at the time. Thirdly, bank margins on commodities credits, which were
administratively limited to 1.0 percentage point, have been liberalized. The reference margin on other
credits used to be fixed by an interbank non-binding agreement at 4.0 percentage points above the TC
rate for rediscountable credits and 9.0 percentage points for other credits. Such practices have been
prohibited by the Central Bank, and are no longer used. Tle only remaining distortions are the
differentiated taxation rates of financial instruments that are close substitutes (e.g., Treasury Ccrtificates
and Certificates of Deposit). The Government has agreed to rationalize the fiscal regime of financial



Page 9 of 23
instruments through institution of a single securities tax levy. This and other fiscal issues will be
addressed in the context of an upcoming joint Bank/IMF study of fiscal and tax reforms (para 3.8).
31.        Interest rates on deposits currendy vary from I percent for some sight deposits to 9 percent
for one month and 12 percent for one year deposits, with the bulk of term deposits remunerated above
9 percent, the current average annual rate of inflation. Interest charged on commercial bank loans ranges
from 11 percent to 19 percent. These rates fluctuate according to market conditions.
Credit Policies
32.        The Central Bank does not have any directd credit policies, except for  minimum
requirements for commercial and development banks to allocate 15 percent and 60 percent of their
portfolio, for medium (2 - 7 years) and long (over 7 years) term lending, respectively. By and large, this
term lending ratio is not respected by most commercial banks who lack long to medium term resources.
These ratios have no credit control or prudential meaning; they prevent independent decision-making for
investment financing, and should be eliminated. The Central Bank has agreed to abolish both ratios
before Mid-Term Review.
Monetary Policies
33.        Reserv Requirements. Currently, changes in the money supply are effected through
conversions of external credits and Central Bank refinancing of eligible credits, in practice coffee
marketing and export financing. More flexibility is needed in the conduct of monetary policy to provide
banks with more options for financing their activities, and to increase savings mobilization, thereby giving
them the needed resources for increased private investment financing. This could be achieved by moving
toward indirect instruments of monetary control such as reserve requirements, and open market operations
(OMO). In view of the rapid expansion of domestic credits in the past two years, the IMF and the
Central Bank agreed to introduce a system of reserve requirements applicable to all deposit taking
institutions. The system, instituted in July 1991, sets reserve requirements at 10 percent of sight
(demand) deposits and 5 percent of term deposits. Reserves are constituted by special deposits held by
banking institutions with the Central Bank. Banks must adhere. to this requirement on a daily basis, with
penalties for non- compliance, set at 10 percent of the shortfall. Several problems have emerged with
the implementation of the new system of required reserves: (a) the target level of the reserves is too high;
(b) the form in which they must be held is too restrictive; (c) the need to meet the requirements on a daily
basis, does not provide for sufficient flexibility (d) the penalty for non-ompliance is too low; and (e)
there are a number of deposit-taking institutions that are not required to comply.
34.        Following a joint IDA and IMF/CBD mission in November 1991, the Central Bank has
agreed, in principle, to: (a) establish a single reserve requirement at 7.5 percent, independently of the
category of deposits it is applied to; (b) modify the form in which required reserves must be held to
remove the special deposit at Central Bank and include cash on hand; (c) increase the time span over
which the requirement must be met; and (d) increase the penalty for non-compliance. SBF, BNDE,
FPHU and SOFIDHAR, while accepting deposits, are not subject to the reserve requirement. As far as
FPHU and SOFIDHAR are concerned, the funding of housing loans with short term deposits poses
problems (para. 13). The Central Bank has agreed to review the operation of these funds and to either
stop their deposit-taking activities or subject them to reserve requirements. The Central Bank will also
review the situation at BNDE and SBF. Furthermnore, under the teclnical assistance component of the
project the Central Bank's capacity to use reserve requirements effectively, will be strengthened.



Anne 2.3
Page 10 of 23
35.        Oen_ Ma_ket Qorations. In addition to the reserve requirement, the Central Bank has
agreed to begin developing other indirect credit and monetary policy instruments. The Treasury
certificates (TC) market offers the basis upon which to develop an active money market which, with time,
would permit the development of Open Market Operations (OMO). Currently it is only a primary market
for 1-and 3-month TCs. The amount issued is predetermined. All bids are satisfied at the rate asked until
the total amount offered has been subscribed. The Central Bank remains passive during the whole
process. Individuals, commercial banks, public corporations and private enterprises participate in the
auctions. In the first six months of 1991, between 6 and 15 bidders participated in the auctions for 1-
month TCs and between 3 and 11 bidders for the 3-mcnth TCs. In recent months, the total amount bid
has fallen far short of the amount tendered, both for 1-and 3-month TCs. This is mainly attributable to
the temporary withdrawal of institutional bidders, principally PEs, and to increased competition among
banks for deposits. On the other hand, more individuals have been attracted to the auctions. As a result,
the number of bidders has remained stable despite the decline in large institutional participants. The
increased participation of individuals augurs well for the future development of the market, particularly
as the institutional withdrawal is only a temporary phenomenon. While the Central Bank's passive role
limits interference with the process of interest rate determination, it subjects the Government to the risk
of having to pay unduly high interest rates, particularly when bids fall short of the amount tendered.
Since the TC rates provide the reference for the country's interest rate structure, the Central Bank is in
effect losing control over interest rates as a policy instrument. The high spreads on accepted bids in May,
1991, (7 percent to 11 percent) illustrate this risk.
36.        A restructuring of the TC market has already been agreed to and implemented by the
Central bank during project preparation. As a first step,the Central Bank has lowered the minimum
denomination of certificates from FBu 500,000 to 100,000 (US$2,500 to 500), introduced bearer
certificate and commenced semi-monthly auctions. The market should also be enlarged to include short-
term instruments issued by financial institutions (Banking Certificates). This would allow institutions to
invest their short term excess liquidity or to borrow to fill a temporary deficit. The existing interbank call
Money market has never been widely used, and interest rates on that market no longer reflect demand
and supply conditions.
37.        Furthermore, the Central Bank should constitute a limited  portfolio of Treasury
Certificates, thus allowing it to engage in open market operations in order to influence bank liquidity and
interest rates. The Central Bank could thus enter reserve bids in the auction market at rates consistent
with the intended rate of growth of the money supply. The amount to be issued at each auction would
be determined in relation to the behavior of the market during previous issues. If an issue has been
undersubscribed, the amount offered would be significantly reduced. If an issue has been oversubscribed,
the amount offered at the next auction would be increased.
38.        Central Bank Refinancing of Last Rot. As the use of indirect instruments of monetary
control increases, access to the rediscounting window would be graiually phased-out. When OMOs are
fully operational,Central bank lending would take the form of temporary overdrafts, at penalty rates, as
part of its function of lender of last resort. In the meantinme, access to the refinancing window would be
limited to maintain control over money supply growth. A global refinancing ceiling would be established
annually, taking Into account money supply growth objectives and other macro targets, and be large
enough to meet the financing needs of commodities marketing and export while, at the same time,
limiting overall money supply growth. Once this ceiling has been reached, an institution will be allowed
access to the refinancing window only if it faces a temporary liquidity shortage, at which time it will be
charged a penalty rate. A healthy bank which encounters a temporary liquidity shortage after exhausting
its rediscountable paper, could exceptionally have recourse to a Central Bank temporary overdraft at a



Annlex 2
Page 11 of 23
penalty rate. That rate would be established at several percentage points above the normal refinancing
rate. The refinancing rate itself would be established in relation to the rate on TCs. Moreover control
of the quality of loans submitted for refinancing needs to be reinforced at the Central Bank and subjected
to periodic reviews. The quality review and monitoring by the Central Bank of paper submitted for
refinacing must be substantially improved. As commercial banks often condition credit approval to
Central Bank notification of the rediscountability of such credits, there exists a de fo reliance on
Central Bank assessment of the quality of the proposed credits. Agreement has been reached under this
project and IMP/ESAF for Central Bank to start implementing the above proposed monetary policy
measures.
39         It is recognized however that to implement this new approach to the conduct of monetary
policy, the Central Bank's internal capacity must be reinforced, with substantial technical assistance and
training. The central Bank will strengthen its analytical and processing capacity to: (a) establish targets
for money supply and credit growth from projected macro variables such as inflation and GDP (gross
domestic product) growti; (b) translate these objectives into monetary base and interest rate intermediate
targets; and (c) achieve those targets through refinancing, changes in the reserve requirement and open
market operations. This will, inter alia, involve developing a securities trading capability in the future.
It wIll also require speeding the on-going computerization of the Central Bank. Currently, few Central
Bank departments are computerized, and no integral systems analysis has ever been performed. The
development of a computeriaion plan, based on a detaied systems anaysis, and the elaboration of an
action plan to strengthen the Research and Credit departments, will be initiated with funding from the
advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of IDA. The Central Bank will be required, by
December 31, 1992, to submit satisfactory plans for computerization and strengthening of the Research
and Credit Departments as a condition of the proposed credit.
Banklne Refuation and Sunervsion
40.        Padential rtlos. Supervision and monitoring activities by the Central Bank remain limited
in scope and quality. The prudential ratios were ill defined, ap;d their managenmnt inflexible. The
principal ratio are as follows:
(i)    !iguidity ratio - non-rediscounted paper eligible for refinancing is considered
by definition as part of a bank's liquidity. Tbis is a misconception, as recourse
to rediscount facilities mainly occurs when banks are in liquidity squeeze;
(ii)   Minimum Capital Ratio. As currendy defined, the capital adequacy ratio does
not take into account a number of credit categories, and overstates equity by
the Inclusion of all provisions for bad loans into capital funds.
(iii)   TM  Lend9ne Ratio. The minimum required ratio of term lending, (15 and
60 percent of total lending by commercial and development banks,
respectively) when binding, constitutes an unnecessary constraint on the
management of the institutions portfoli.
(iv)    Risk Concentration and Exposure. The risk concentration limit is set by the
Banking Law at 30 percent of equity, a high level compared to the 10 to 15
percent of net equity capital limitations under most international standards. In
practice, the ratio in Bumndi is much higher than 30 percent as credit for
commodities marketing and export through parastatals (guaranteed by chattel



Annex 2.3
Page 12 of 23
mortgages and other lien on the products) and credits guaranteed by a
mortgage, and Government guaranteed credits are not subject to these limits.
41.        The Banking Law, which defines and specifies some of these ratios, will need to be revised
to remedy the deficiencies described above. The liquitidy and capital-asset ratios have been redefined
by Central Bank directives issued in December 30, 1991. Further progress with overhauling Burundi's
Banking Law and regulations will be assessed during the mid-term review of project implementation
(para. 5.8).
42.        Loan classification by risk category (i.e. performing, non-performing and litigious) and
provisioning guidelines were lacking in almost all banking institutions. The Central Bank has issued a
satisfactory directive dealing with these issues in February 1992.
43.        Some prudential regulations apply only to banks and deposit taking institutions. For
instance, the Banking Law sets minimum capital requirements which do not cover non-bank financial
institutions (e.g., minimum capital requirement). While all prudential ratios theoretically also apply to
non-bank financial institutions, they have been established with deposit taking financial institutions and
banks in mind and would be difficult to apply to other institutions. As agreed during negotiations, the
revision of the Banking law and the establishment of prudential norms specific to non-bank financial
institutions by the Central Bank are priority measures to be implemented by October 30, 1993.
Banking-Supervision
44.        The Central Bank's supervision department lacks the necessary know-how, resources and
clout to undertake any meaningful supervision of banks and financial institutions. Turnover of personnel
is high, as remuneration is low compared to compensation paid to equivalent officers in financial
institutions. The status of inspectors in the banking and financial community is also relatively low. As
a result, on-site supervision is limited, and no banking institution has been the subject of a comprehensive
external audit. While attempts are being made to introduce standardized accounting practices among
banks, off-site supervision is still conducted on the basis of inadequate reports often filed with substantial
delays by many banks. On-site inspection reports are not available to the banks concerned which cannot
comment on them, and there is no follow-up to ensure that corrective measures have been taken.
45.        Strengthening bank regulation and supervision would include, int_r alia: (a) establishing a
single and well-structured accounting plan for all institutions falling under the purview of the Central
Bank; (b) drawing up standard, comprehensive reporting forms for all these institutions; (c) preparing
a procedural manual for on- and off-site supervision; (d) training personnel; (e) increasing salaries and
benefits to reduce personnel turnover; and (f) establishing the policy that supervision staff will not be
subjected to the internal policy ap!,lied to Central Bank personnel.



Aimex-2.3
Page 13 of 23
FSnanclal Sector Development Strategy
46.        The ongoing reforms in the financial and legal/regulatory environment, the relatively stable
macroeconomic framework and the deepening of the economic adjustnent process provide good
opportunities for future financial sector development. The Government's strategy in the financial sector
with Bank Group support will be built around a fully liberalized interest rate regime feasible in the
current context of low average inflation and flexible exchange rate policy. Its focus will be on
institutional capacity building while monetary and credit policies are fine-tuned, and sharpened, to
maintain and strengthen the significant progress achieved so far on the policy front.  The proposed
policies and reform measures are detailed in the draft Letter of Financial Setor Development Policy
signed by Government.
47.        In order to improve resource mobilization prospects, and provide additional indirect
monetary policy instruments, emphasis will be put on the development of the Treasury Certificate
market, and particularly on the emergence of an active secondary market. The Central Bank is expected
to play a lead role in this respect. The Central Bank will constitute its own portfolio of TCs and become
an active trader in the secondary market. Banks, enterprises and private individuals will be encouraged
to place their excess funds in the TC market. Banks will also be encouraged to borrow overnight funds
in that market through progressive reduction in recourse to rediscounting and appropriate interest rate
policies. The development of such a money market will contribute to improving the management of
liquidity in the economy, and constitute the embryo for the development, in the longer run, of a
securities market crucial to private sector development
48.        Institutional capacity building will be required to enable the Central Bank and banking
institutions to effectively play their assigned roles in these developments. In the context of economic
liberalization and a greater role for the private sector, this capacity buildinig will enable: (a) the Central
bank to improve the conduct of monetary and credit policy; and tighten its prudential supervision of
financial institutions thus encouraging banks to diversify lending away from public enterprises and short-
term financing; and (b) banking institutions to improve financial accounting systems and procedures as
well as risk evaluation and management.
49.        Capacity-building support to banks and financial institutions will include staff training to:
(a) develop intemal capacity to assess and manage risks; (b) introduce a loan classification system; (c)
put in place internal control mechanisms; (d) establish guidelines for provisioning, the treatment of
interest accrued but not paid; (e) design appropriate loan documentation and loan monitoring system; (f)
develop the capac:ty to integrate the standardized accounting plan developed by the Central Bank.
50.        Private sector development will require the availability of venture capital. This cannot be
provided either by commercial or development banks of Burundi as this is a longer termn and high tisk
commitment which would endanger the safety of bank deposits, their main source of funds.
Consideration is being given to establishing specialized private institutions with the assistance of IFC and
other donors. Priority actions will be on improving access to institutional lending for private sector
borrowers. The technical assistance component will further familiarize private entrepreneurs with basic
accounting procedures and methods so that they could provide potential lenders with credible financial
statements. Private sector development will also tequire a channel for selling shares of public enterprises
to the public at large. Commercial banks appear to be the most likely institutions to perform such task.



ANNEX 2U
Page 14 of 23
PRIVATE SECTOR LEoPA              PROJECT
Wle 2: CHARACTERISTICS OF MAIN INSTITUTIONS OPERATING
UNDER MHE BANKING LEGISLATION
(Fbu Million)
(1990)
Assets           LQa            Dmo5i
BCB                           12,163             8233             5813
Bancobu                       10,286             9152             6490
MBB                            6,111             4220             4597
BBCI                           1,724             1400             1055
Commercial Banks              30,284           2300S             1795S
BNDE                           6,067             4965               21
SBP                            6,362             5584                -
Development Banks             12,429            10549               21
CADEBU                         2,961             1617             2841
CAMOFI                         5,044             1245             4052
CCI'                            358                 -              272
HALB                            919                82
SOFIDHAR                        308               210
Coopecs                          0        h      a
Other Financial               10,294            3,806            7,553
LInttutions
&ZMM: Uiiaudted Financil Statement
AIRURCI Unaudited Financial Statements



ANNEX 2.3
Page 15 of 23
REBLIC OUND
EPWVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMEM PRO.ECT
Table 3: SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET OF COMMERCIAL BANKS (UNAUDITED)
A_of     mber31:                       I                P
ASES                                (FBU Million)
Cash Reserves                           353              812             737
Assets in foreign banks                 798             782              879
Loans and Credits:
Fin. Institutions                   880              820            1,117
Government                        1,597            1,157            1,017
Public enterprises                5,397            6,128            7,123
Private enterprises               8,577           11,818           16,068
Other Assets                          1,458            1,580            2,507
Total Assets                         A2IQQ                             Z244
Demand Deposits                       7,881            8,300            9,705
Time Deposits                         2,966            5,670            6,490
External Borrowings                   1,201            1,106            1,377
Other liabilities                     4,738            5,453            8,307
Equity                                2,274            2,568            3,569
Q i nuidaaleosobk  fncl . . ..... .n s. ...i.i
SP_QR: Unaudited annual feporl of banks md finiancial institutlotts



AL4NEX 2.3
Page 16 of 23
REPUBLIC OF BURMNDI
PRIVAT-E SECTOR DEVELOPMENTPOJECT
Tble 4: BNDE - SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET (UNAUDITED)
As of Dee_mber _31                                    1282             L22R
ASSEr1                              (FBU Million)
Cash Reserves                         23.9             49.9            13.9
Loans and Credits:
Financial Institutions             1.5              6.0            11.0
Public Enterprises              1,303.2         1,349.6          1,350.3
Private Sector                  2,978.9         3,349.6          3,688.2
Other Assets                         532.5            743.1           608.3
Total Assets                                                        5.671.7
LIAB-LITIFS
Bank Loans                           837.0          1.030.7           697.8
Public Funds                         924.7          1,229.0          1,449.2
Foreign Loans                       1,746.9         1,847.5          1,908.3
Deposits                             112.9            111.8            87.6
Equity                              1,218.5         1,279.2          1,528.8
:          Central Bank



ANNEX .3
Page 17 of 23
P.PUUCOF   RUD
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabie S: SBF - SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET (UNAUDfTED)
As of December 31:                   1988             122             1990
AUM                                 (FBU Million)
Cash Reserves                         22.3           118.0            43.3
Loans and Credits:
Govenmnent                     1,514.8          1,312.1         1,014.3
Financial Institutions            65.2            65.2            65.2
Public Enterprises             1,313.1          1,127.9         1,215.1
Private Sector                 2,236.2          3,047.5         3,691.5
Other Assets                          86.1              -             57.8
IaW-lAs set                                                         6.087.2
Borrowing from:
Financial Institutions               218.9           218.9           390.6
Government Funds                   2,230.1         2,404.1          1,885.9
Deposits                           1,145.0          1,281.5         1,773.4
Public Enterprises             (710.0)          (893.0)         (980.0)
Private Sector                 (933.7)          (873.2)       (1,057.3)
Equity                             1,145.0          1,281.5         1,773.4
Total Liabilities & Equity          0,Z             LgZ.8.
SQIJ: Central Bank Annual Reports



ANNE 2.3
Page 18 of 23
IPIUTE SECTOR OYDLEVITOM   OE
able 6: REPORTED PROFITABILrTY OF SELECIED BANKS
(December 31, 1990)
As a Percentage       As a Percentage Average
of Average Equity           of Total Assets
BCB                                24.2                       1.3
BANCOBU                             6.9                       0.7
MBB                                11.2                       1.4
BBCI                               15.4                       3.1
BNDE                                4.5                       1.0
SBF                                5.3                        1.9
SOURCE: Unaudited Financial Statements of Banks



A=12 2.3
Page 19 of 23
EWAU SECTOR 1;gE1PA
Ia1zI.: DISTRIBUTION OF DEMAND DEPOSITS BY INSlTUTrMON
(Percentages)
i2fE       L1987iB          12f                J Q
ERD                   17.3      18.8     11.4      12.9     13.3       9.5
Commercial Banks      73.0      73.0     79.2     78.9      80.0      83.6
BANCOBU             N/A       N/A       N/A    (40.1)   (34.7)    (31.7)
BCB                 N/A       N/A       N/A    (35.4)   (34.6)    (32.7)
MBB                 N/A       N/A       N/A      (2.2)    (8.1)    (14.9)
BBCI                N/A       N/A       N/A      (1.2)    (2.6)      (4.3)
CADEBU                 7.4       6.0      6.2      4.7      3.7        3.9
CCP                    2.3       2.2      3.2      3.5      3.0        2.9
TOTAL             _ 1                     Q,    IQ  Q               £Qi2
N/A: Not Available
sQ1IB~l: Central Bank



A-NN13X 2.3
Page 20 of 23
REPUBLIC OF BURUNI
ble 8: DISTRIBUTION OF TERM DEPOSITS BY INSTITUTION
(Percentages)
1225      I2B6     1987      128I     12fi2     19XQ
Commercial Banks    42.4      20.7     27.3     45.5      61.8     65.3
BANCOBU           N/A       N/A       N/A    (13.8)   (23.2)    (24.8)
BCB               N/A       N/A       N/A    (30.5)   (24.6)   (24.8)
MBB               N/A       N/A       N/A      (1.2)    (11.6)   (10.7)
BBCI              N/A       N/A       N/A       (-)     (2.4)     (5.0)
CAMOFI             24.6       26.4     20.0     22.1      12.6     10.5
CADEBU             33.0       52.9     52.7     32.4      25.6     24.2
TOTAL             l0      .0      10.0                             10
N/A: Not Available
SQIE: Central Bank



ANNE 2.3
Page 21 of 23
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabl 9: STRUCTURE AND EVOLUTION OF COMMERCIAL BANK DEPOSITS
(Percentages)
Demand DLeyosils                       Term and Savings Deposits
18    I        1986   I     I2   I2    I2          12      1987  I2M   I198  I1Q
Persona Deposits          24.3   30.9  37.8  31.9   30.8   34.4   39.5  62.2   60.7  41.1  35.0  35.1
Priwme Enterprises        21.7   18.2  20.9  22.5   27.1   23.9    9.5   10.7   17.7  26.9  28.7  26.4
Public Enterprises        51.2   48.7  37.7  40.6   36.9   33.0   48.9  25.3   17.8  25.8  29.1  30.6
Other Accounts             2.8    2.2   3.6   5.0    5.2    8.7    2.1   1.8    3.8   6.2   7.2   7.9
TCJTAL                   10      10   J00.  £02    10Q0  A2RIR   1          100.   J0I  10.  10.0  190.0
(Toal in FBU Million):   (10,840  11,670 10,489 9,989  10,373  11,607   5,729 4,151   5,064  7,028 9,166 9,937)
SO1ABF: Central Bank



AN-MM 2.3
Page 22 of 23
EUBC OF BURUNDI
PIV/D SECTOR DEVEWIMT PROJECI
Table 10: SECIORAL DISTRIBUTION OF CREDrrS TO THE ECONOMY
(FBu Million)
Sector    Short Tam           NIedimn Term                              Long Term                        TOTAL
I288                     199 9O    88  1!212    1so      2        1989    1990         1211       1212      1990
AuricuttI              366.5      318.3     382.7   1,369.3      281.8    Z80.9      248.2      212.4    210.0    1.984.0      815.5     873.6
trdustrr             2,967.2    3,424.0   4,033.7   1,346.3    1,430.0  1,278.3      548.4     562.2    655.2    4,861.9    5,416.2    6,237.2
Cw.ruction             863.4       32.0    1,452.2   1,002.0   1,35.0    913.7    2,515.1    2,863.6  3,169.9    4,360.5    4,730.9    5,600.8
Trminrt                s22.3      331.9     357.9    179.0       247.9    251.7       20.6      15.8      13.3      721.9     S95.6      622.9
Suivlcus               155.4      186.5     223.6      39.7       81.9     62.8         8       183.     124.8      383.9      4s5.3     411.2
Trudu                10,301.3   12,435.4   15,105.4    621.6     661.4    M58.5       64.;      102.4    146.3   10,967.3   13,199.2   16,010.2
cOh r                 2,329.6    3,8w.7    S,966.6    927.s    1,358.9  1,677.6      132.4      129.3    105.3    3,389.7    5,288.9    7,769.5
.........  .. .......,, ........   .....   ........   .....    .......    .....   ..,..   .........  .........  .........
TUAL                 L=.    21-3Z385    2           5.28.1 2!Z    5,AS     S29     LB.7.19.   4-6.   4.424.8   26-689.2       fr.8   375sz.4
:iQ1ji: 23R}BPf: Annual Rept



ANNEX 2.3
Page 23 of 23
RE,PUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIV&113 SECIBrO DEY-E:L01M1N                  O
Tabl IL: STRUCTURE AND EVOLUTION OF CREDlTS DISBUED
(PBu Milon Ogtading)
As of Dember 31:                      1981                                                             12B2                 12iQ
_t-tuu Credt                      11,65;5.8             12.724.7             17,.1                  ,328.8              27,814.3
- Coffee export                      4,78.9               53D7.7                6,481.2             7,024.5               8,626.6
- Cther export                        225.5                   4.3                540.0                 487.5                154.1
- Overdraft                          5,334.1              6,526.5               8,437.0             11,726.3             16,509.8
- Other short tem                    1,307.3                936.2              1,987.9               2,090.5              2,523.8
rliwti u Credts                        2,542.1              3,402.2               4.255.4              5,100.2              5,288.5
- Rwing                               673.1                 641.8                974.8                 981.1                998.7
Eqit                                1,869.0              2,560.4              3,280.6               4,119.1              4,289.8
t.WTem Crests                         3,607.4               3,936.7              3,719.9               4,068.8              4,451.8
- bluini                             2,474.6              2,761.6              2,515.1               2,663.6              3,196.9
- equipet                            1.132.8              1175.1                  0                  1252                  125.9
TAL                                  17 8053              20.063.6              25.42.4              30.497.8              37.554.6
SQUjCE: Cenr  Bak Annual Rers



ANEX2.4
Page I of S
BURUNDI: PRILVATE SECWOR DEVELOPMT PROJ=
FROPOSME DLF APOLICY MAT
Fmnwl Sector Devetonment
hz! abi                                                                               Measures                                    Timetable
e!  Rte             Establisb a sge Centa Bank (BRB),        Eliminate the preferential rediscount rte. Set one rediscount ate and expand  Implemented
Regime             rediscount gate, and rationalize fixation of  eligibility of credits to be refinanced to all wectors and types of credit.  (ESAF)
rediscount rate.
istablish an accepWtble formula designed to set the rediscount rate at a level above   June 1992
the weighted average yield of the auction of three-month Treasury Certificate
(M.C.), and ensmuing at all times positive interest rates in real terms.
Credit Ps7icv      Elimiate the diced credit policies.       Eliminate the disinction between priority and non-priority sectors, and between  Implemented
rediscountable and non-rediscountable credits in allocating credit.
Eliminate medium-term credit target requirements of 15% and 60% of lending  October 1993
. _________________________________  operations by commercial and development banks, respectively



ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 5
Obiectives                                               Masures                                      Timetable
Controt d          Move to indirect control of monetary      Develop and submit plans to improve internal capacity of BRB to: (a) analyze  December 1992
Mondarv            aggregate.                                evolution of macro and financial variables; (b) establish economic forecasts;
AS;osates               .                                    (c) establish monetary targets; (d) implement desired monetary policy and
Improve -qaityof policyfomnlation and    (e) better analyze credits approved by bank, includig analysis of company
implemenion, redisountable redits, and  accounts and financial projections.
analytical capacity.
Implement such capacity buldig pln                                       Marh 1993
Set rsurve requiremertsat 7.5% of all deposits of all banks and financial  May 1992
institutions in accordance with RDF agreement.
Establish a global refinancing ceiling and develop lender of last resort mechanisms.  June 1992
Gradualy introduce open mrket operations.                                October 1994



Page 3 of S
am                          Oaoectives                                                Measues                                      rnuetXlc
Moncrxd Ca l      _Encour   development of money marit       Restutre and ecpand TC auction market system tbrough:
- rduction of face value to FEIulOO,O0,                                 Impkmonted
- introductionof  ni-montl auctions,                                    ImPloemd
* introducton of beuar negotiable cotficas,                             Implemoentd
- development of a ecocdry market tiough  oved dealer (bab insurance    October  92
compane, se.),
- aie  Centa  ank nterveio in eondy  market hrgh its own portfolio    Ocber 1992
of securities,
- developmen of a mkt for negotiable bak ertficate iwaod by b     and   December 1993
fin.a-   i..itu.on.



ANNEX 2.4
Page 4 of S
Ama                 ~~~~Obiectives                                             mesreTimetabe
B&ikine            Expand and stengthen BRWs capacity to     Draft a detailed action plan to recruit, train and better remunerate the taff of the
Su"erVision and    oversee and apeise all banks and finmcial   supevision department, and develop on and off-site supervision.        Effectiveness
oversinht          institutions.
Emplement such an action plan.                                          October 1992
Daft a detailed standardized accounting   m  for all bank and financial  October 1994
institutiOn
Develop prndential norms and regulations for  Implement policy requiring extemal audits of banks and fnancial institutions  Underway
banks and financial institutions.
Development and application of a system of loan classification by risk category,  Implemented
including accounting rules for intercst accruals, and for allocations to provisions
for risks of loss on doubtful loans
Development and application of new or revised prudential ratio, including:
- asset-based capital adequacy rado.                                   Implemented
- liquidity ratio (excluding rediscountable paper).                    Implemented
- risk exposure limits and concentration (excluding any reference to guarantees,   October 1993
sovereign risks, and refinancing of commodities marketing and export).
Establishment of prdential norms for development banks and other non banking  October 1993
financial institutions.
Central Bank      CComputeriz operations.                    Undertake ystems analysis and prepare computerization plan.              December 1992



ANNEX 2.4
Page 5 of s
I______Are      _                                          I                                Measures                                     Timetabl     1
FCiial             Strengthen credit analyis and loan recoery    Prepare aisfatory plans to improve staff training, loan monitoring and recovery    October 1993
Institutions       fntjoi.                                   functions and procedures, credit and internal control functions.
Istitute intrnal auditing and accounting
control functions.
Rationahze government policy ftgarding the    Government will commit itself to implement recommendations of audits of  May 1992
creation, and  pport of publicly controlled    financial irutios, and of ongoing financial, fiscal and legal studies, after
financial institutions througb  structuring and  consultations with IDA and IMF
consolidation of non-viable andlor redundant
institution                              kmplementation of ecomnmendations                                        SAC-M
ZMPAOon of         Increase profitability of banks by developing    Submit plan to (a) revise tax treatment of provisions against risk on loans, and (b)   Effectiveness
financial instituons  their capacity to provision against riks.  rtonalize taxation of financial insruments.
and g    ion       Provide incentives for increased resure
mobilization aad risktaking by bank.
leizaland-         De-sig and put in place updated and       Revise banking law and amend regulatory framework to allow development of new   October 1993
Renulatorv         modernized banking la  and regulations,  financial instruments.
Ftameworc          plaeo all banks and financial institutions
under effective control and supervision of
Central Bank
Mamb 20, 1992



EXNe 4,1
Page I of 4
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELQMENT P0E&C
laffAw  ~    g~~eent Unit aPmU
1.    To help manage the investment component of the project, it is agreed to establish an integrated
Project Management Unit (PMU) which would combine into one unit the current SSEIrA Bureau at the
CCIB and the APEX project management unit located at the Central Bank. The new unit would be headed
by an experienced senior banking official, to be recruited. The head of the new unit would be relatively
autonomous, but administratively would report to the Central Bank Governor. The objective is to establish
his authority and credibility vis-&-vis his colleagues in the banking system and avoid a repetition of the
unsatisfactory experience under APEX. The PMU activities would be governed by a Management
Agreement to be signed, as a condition of disbursement, between the Central Bank and the Government.
The Government would provide offices and the Central Bank the necessary administrative and accounting
logistics for the PMU, which would be autonomous, with own staff, operating policies and procedures.
2.    In addition to staff inherited from the CCIB unit, the staff of the PMU would consist of a
qualified, senior level, project analyst who would be the subproject appraisal and subloan administration
section chief, and an accountant/financial analyst. The newly reorganized Enterprise Technical
Assistance section would build from the existing CCIB unit and keep the same local and expatriate staff.
The TA section would be headed by a qualified and experienced Burundi engineer or entrepreneur to be
recruited as counterpart to the expatriate engineer.
3.    The PMU would receive a spread cf at least one percent p.a. on the outstanding amount of IDA
financed subloans to cover its administrative expenses. As this spread might not be fully sufficient to
cover the expenses during the first two to three years of project implementation, as has been the
experience in other Bank financed similar projects, including the ongoing SSE/APEX project, this spread
would be reviewed periodically. The revision would take into account the pace of commitments and
disbursements and the evolution of the volume of subloans outstanding, which tends to be small.
Agreement will be sought to ensure proper funding of the unit by BRB and Government at all times.
4.    The functions of the PMU would be as follows:
(a)        ensure adherence of participating intermediaries to established procedures in
selecting eligible subprojects, and ensure application of appropriate standards for
subloan appraisals, including appropriate environmental impact tests to individual
subprojects;
(b)        review the eligibility and authorize financing under the line of credit for
subprojects submitted by participating intermediaries. For subprojects costing
US$350,("0 equivalent or less, the PMU would only insure that the requests
meet the eligibility criteria and would give its approval within five working days
from submission. For subprojects costing US$350,000 or more, the PMU would
review, within a maximum period of ten working days, the requests in more
detail, would give its comments on the quality of the appraisal to the participating
intermediary and would ensure that the eligibility and financing criteria are met;



A~&ANo
Page 2 of 4
(c)         ensure adherence by sub-borrowers and PFIs to Bank's Procurement Guidelines,
including application of inrternational competitive bidding ([CB) procedures for contr, as
of more than US$750,000 and prior Bank review of procurement decisions for contracts
of US$1,000,000 or more.
(d)         ensure proper screening of subprojects likely to pose environmentally hazardous
pollution problems, through applications of environmental assessment tests to be
developed in agreement with IDA.
(e)         administer the Project Special Account, and ensure proper disbursements of all fimds
allocated for subloans and technical assistance, and supervise and centralize the collection
and forwarding of supporting documentation;
(f)         supervise the participating intermediaries' compliance with the various obligations
under the projec,;
(g)         supervise, on a sample basis, subprojects; and
(h)         ensure liaison between IDA, the participating intermediaries and other donors on
matters related to subprojects:
(i)    provide guidance to potential beneficiaries for the preparation of subprojects to
be financed under the line of credit;
(ii)  implement the general private enterprise ar-istance program and manage funds
allocated for that purpose, as per the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
Management Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank;
(iii)  organize the training courses and seminars for banks and Central Bank staff,
selected private entrepreneurs, including local consulting firms.
5.           The PMU will participate actively in the preparation and conduct of the Mid-Term
Review of Project Implementation in October 1993. The PMU will also draft a Project Completion
Report (PCR), the content and format of which to be agreed with PIoA, within six months after the project
closing date of December 31, 1997.
Staffinla
6.           The PMU will consist of the following staff:
LO Sff
1 Director                                                 to be recruited
2 credit analysts                                          from BRB
1 financial analyst                                        CCIB/APEX
1 engineer/computer analyst                                to be reeruited
I technical engineer                                       CCIB
1 executive secretary                                      CCIB
I secretarial assistant                                    to be recruiti
2 clerical assistants                                      CCIB



ANNEL-N 4N.1
Page 3 of 4
1 driver                                               to be recruited
I messenger                                            CCIB
2 security guards                                       CCIB
Eatrir Staff
1 economist/financial analyst                          CCOMAPBX
1 maintenance engineer
I management specialist                                OCD/ace Coqs
I financial analyst
4uinment
2 vehicles                                             to be purchased
1 maintenance/repair kit
2 micro-computers
Audio-visual training equipment
Blue print drafting equipment
restimated ggeratLno Costs* andI Finanoing
(FBu 1,000)
Before         After            Incromental
Protcgt s      Soiet U.            G21tOL
CCIB/M-_S^SE
Director                          4,000           21,600           17,600
Professionals                     4,200           42,000           37,800
other Personnel                   3.400            5?200          __2Q0
Subtotal                         $1.600           22R 616200
Other Operating Charges          10,000           24,000           14,000
Total .CCID/TA-SSE               9,60             36,800           75,20o
BEDiroiect UnLt
Dlrector                          5,900                           (5,900)
ProfessLonals                     500                                 -
fiukto2t^1  R8                   11.800            6.0             5.2900)
TOTAL (Integrated PHU)             33,400           102,700          69,300
inammmin         mmian:m         mmmm
US$ Equlvalent                    US$167,000      US$513,500      US$346,500
minaftin       inuummm wasnua    nmms
I,          Through December 31, 1994
2I          Through December 31, 1997



AMN No 4.1
Page 4 of 4
zLnancina Plan
(USs)
Goverrunent                               50,000
BRB                                       58,500
IDA  Cr. 1889-BU                         105,000
IDA PSD Credit                           300,000 )80%
513,500
n--r-u-x



Page 1 of 2
BEuw OF DRUMD
PREEMT SECTR ME BELOPMAT E?LQJT
ESTIMATED COST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
(USs.000)
A. Project Management Unit (PMU)
Operating Costs                               300.0          ,              300.0
Enterprise Consulting                          100.0       240.0            340.0
Vehicle/Equipment                               -40                           Q
Total Project Management Unit                   Q          n                60
B. Legal Assistance Program
(i)  Legal Mfnms (SCEP)
Phase I
Consultant Services                        53.0        150.0           203.0
Fellowships                                 -           20.0            20.0
Seminars                                   10.0          -               10.0
Equipment and Supplies                      -           10.0             10.0
Contingencies                               -                           J1
Subtotal Phase I                           6.1LQ
PhaseL1
Consultant Services                        72.0        160.0           232.0
Fellowships                                 -           10.0             10.0
Seminars                                   10.0          -               10.0
Supplies                                    -            5.0             5.0
Contingencies                              -1
Subtotal Phase BI                          85                           6
Total Legal Reforms*
(ii) Tribund f Comme   (Ministry of Justice)
Consultant Services                         -           60.0            60.0
Training Fellowships                        -           30.0             30.0
Office Equipment/lPCs                      30.0         40.0            70.0
Vehicle                                     Z-     -2%LD                ZQLQ
Total Tribunal of Commerce*                                            nu



ANE  No. 4.2
Page 2 of 2
LNFocalgp                    Total
C. Policy Coordinating Unit (Ministry of Commerce and Industry)
Operating Costs                            50.0          -              50.0
Consultant Services, Training             200.0        150.0           350.0
Office Equipment/Vehicles                               50.0            50.0
Total Policy Coordinating Unit*    25 20
D. Financial Secr (BRB/Banks)
Consultant Services                           -       1,300.0         1,300.0
Training (Banks/BRB)                                   300.0            300.0
Computer Hardware (PCs)                       -        350.0           350.0
Office Equipment and Telephone                -         80.0            80.0
Velicles                                      -         3 
Total Financial Sector                        -      20601           2.060.00
E. Ministr gf Enagy and Mininz
Consultant Services*                          -                         _0Q
GRAND TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            3,465.0          4,20S
* Includes advance funding under the PPF.



Annex a
Page I of 2
BURUNDI: PRIVATE SE=    DEVELOMNT PRJE1
Sites and Serims - Estimated Investment Costs
(US S)
1. Roads and Drainage System
Paved Primary Road (2 knm)                                $         850,000.00
Unpaved Secondary Roads (4.2 km)                                    945.000.00
Su1btotal (1)                                             S        1a22~aQ~1Q4~Q
2.   Electic Power & Water Distribution
Water distribution (6.2 km)                                S        372,000.00
Electric Power Transmission
- Medium voltage (3.6 km)                          $         180,000.00
- Low voltage (2.6 km)                                       105,000.00
- Transformers (3)                                           210,000.00
- Public Lighting                                             LOAD
Subta   (2)                                               S         242Q,00-oo
3.   Sewage Connections                                         S         225,000.00
4.   Vehicle and Office Equipment                               $          50,000.00
5.   Control and Work Supervision (5%)                          S         145.00,0
lst                                                       S        3,16200
6.   Physical Contingencies (15%)                               S         473,000.00
7.   Price Contingencies (8%)                                   S         265,000.00
otal Cost                                                       S       3.900.000.00
Estimatirect Cost Recovery (including contingencies)
Secondary Unpaved Roads (100%)                                           1,162,350.00
Water Distribution (100%)                                                 457,560.00
Electric Power Transmission (100%)                                        707,250.00
Sewage Connections (100%)                                                 276,750.00
Control and Supervision (100%)                                            178,350.00
Total Direct Cost Recovered (71.3%)                           $
Estimated Development Costlm2                                   $           13.00/m2
Estimated Direct Cost Recovered                                 $           9.27/m2



Page 2 of 2
BURUNDI- PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sites and evim   Compnent:       al    Ing j=jI g
1.   Ihe borrower shall appoint a Special Commission to oversee the program of construction and
marketing of developed plots in the sites and services areas developed with funding from the IDA
credit for the development of the private sector in Burundi.
2.  The Government will draft and sign a decree, satisfactory to the Association, empowering the
Commission to set transparent and fair rules and criteria, also satisfactory to the Association, setting
forth terms and conditions of sale and marketing of the developed plots to both local and foreign
private industrial promoters. The determination of the selling prices to be applied by the Commission
shall ensure maximum direct cost recovery (excluding investment in the primary paved road), and
take into account fair and free market based land prices. Should demand for the developed plots
exceed supply, the Commission shall consider an auction system of sales based on the same market
principles.
3.  The Commission shall include representatives of the private sector through both the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, and the various industrial trade associations including participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs), the director of the Prqc,t Management Unit of the PSD project, National
Investment Commission, the directors of Urban Development and Housing, REGIDESO, etc.,.
4.   In order to take full advantage of the availability of developed plots, and make them easily
accessible to private project promoters, there is an urgent need to simplify and accelerate investment
project approvals and implementation. To achieve this objective, the Commission will also be
mandated by the Government to undertake a detailed review and propose simplification, coordinate
and implement measures concerning administrative, legal and regulatory procedures governing, inter
alia,
(i) the process of land acquisition through sale, lease or permits, including titling and
registration procedures through the Directorate General of Urban Development and Housing,
and the Directorate of Notary Public and Deeds in particular;
(ii) the obtention of building construction permits and clearances, including permits from
Directorates of Roads, Energy and Water Supply, public utility companies such as REGIDESO
and ONATEL for power, water and telecommunication connections, and municipal authorities
as required;
(iii) the cleaance and approval of investment projects by the National Investment Commission
as the case may require; and
(iv) the process of registering and clearing real estate guaranties and other collateral required
by participating financial intermediaries under the IDA financed project.
5. The Commission shall also undertake a complementary review of lending and guaranty
procedures applied by PFIs to private investment borrower with a view to their voluntary
simplification and acceleration. The Commission will utilize to that effect the finding of an ongoing
study of bank and financial institutions"lending and guaranty procedures under the Public Enterprise
Reform and Economic Management project (cr.1795-BU) by the Public Enterprise Reform Office
(SCEP).



Page I of 2
B-URUNDI: PIUYATE SECTOR KkLDMMPROEC
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Rport d'Evaluation Projet d'Evacuation des Eaux Us&es de Ia Vile de Bujumbura.
African Development Fund Appraisal of a Waste Water Disposal System in
Bujumbura. Report dated Nov. 20, 1990.
2.    Notes on the Evaluation of the Bujumbura Sites and Services Component. Ministry of
Public Works and Urban Development.
3.   EPyiate Secr Development in the Industrial Sector of Eurund|. Report No. 9422-Bu,
dated February 10, 1992.
4.    private Secor Ievelop t in Agrdicu. Report No. 9686-1u, dated September
16, 1991.
5.    Draft Letters of Pinancial and Private Sector Development Policies.
6.    Rgform of Monetar Policy Instruments in Burundi. IMF/CBD, Technical Assistance
Report dated November 22, 1989.
7.     M                                                           IMFICBD,
Report dated January 27, 1992.
8.    A Review of the Exchange Arrangement nd Exchange SystM  of Burundi. Technical
Assistance Mission Report- IMF/EIT Department, September 1991.
9.    The Regulatory Framework for the Private Sector in Burundi. Evaluation of
Measures taken under SAC-H and proposed under SAC-HI/PSD. Consultant report
by Ms. L. C. Philips.
10.   Projet de Rdforme du Droit des Affaires au Bumndi. Draft Project Document by
Service Charge des Entreprises Publiqties. Premier Ministhre.
11.   Proposed Revision of Burundi's Investment Policies and Code (May 17-24, 1991).
Back-to-Office Report by Robb E. Smith, (CEIFI)
12.                                               . Simplification des Proc6dures au
Burundi. July, 1990, Consultant report by Nguyen Tu Son (DFC Consultant).
13.    &uMndi Mlning Sector Review (AF31E, Desk Report) dated May 31, 1991.
14.   Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance Component.



ANNEX 4A4
Page 2 of 2
15.   Pipeline of Private Investment Project In Burundi.
16.   Draft Participating Agreement between BRB and PFI, including Appraisal and
Supervision Procedures.



PRIVATE SECTOR _OPMEN AND E_OR EROM    PROJECT
Sch_edule of Disbursement
(Cumulative US$.OO0)
Sites &
IDA Fiscal Year                      Credit         TA             Services
and Ouarter Ending                   Qagpoaenlt              *        m. Comn Tota
FY93
December 31, 1992                                                    300            300
March 31, 1993                                                       700            700
June 30, 1993                                         -             1,000          1,000
FY_94
September 30, 1993                     500           400            1,400          2,300
December 31, 1993                      800           600           2,000           3,400
March 31, 1994                       1,400         1,000           3,500           5,900
June 30, 1994                        2,100          1,200             -            6,800
FY95
September 30, 1994                   2,800          1,600             -            7,900
December 31, 1994                    3,500          1,800             -            8,800
March 31, 1995                       4,200         2,000              -            9,700
June 30, 1995                        4,800         2,200              -            10,500
September 30, 1995                   5,400         2,400              -           11,300
December 31, 1995                    5,800         2,500                           11,800
March 31, 1996                       6,400            -               -           12,400
June 30, 1996                        7,000                            -            13,000
FY97
September 30, 1996                   7,500            -                           13,500
December 31, 1996                    8,000                            -            14,000
March 31, 1997                       8,800                            -           14,800
June 30, 1997                        9,500                            -            15,500
EX2U
September 30, 1997                   10,300                           -           16,300
December 31, 1997                    11,000                           -            17,000
*Including PPF financing



Bank Supervision into Key Activities
Approximate Dates                                  Activity                               Expeged Skills (SV)
May 1992            Supervision Mission - (a) finalization of project implementing arrangements,  Operations Officer (2)
schedules, staffing and consultancy requests for PMU and PCU; (b)
preparation of bidding documents for sites and services; (c) launching  Consultant (2)
technical assistance for Tribunal of Commerce; (d) follow up co-financing of
T.A. components by other donors; (e) follow up on conditions of effectiveness
and disbursements.
August 1992         Supervision Mission - (a) follow up on conditions of effectiveness andlor  Operations Officer (2)
disbursement, and project implementation; (b) first review of progress in
regulatory reforms for enterprises, in financial sector reforms and legal studies   Financial Sector
and reforms; (c) review the Central Bank's supervision overhaul plans and  Specialist (2)
implementation of s rch plans; (d) T.A. for Tribunal of Commerce; (e)
organization training i procurement.
December 1992       Supervision Mission - (a) Assessment of PMU and PCU functioning,       Operations Officer (2)
preparation of reporting and auditing arrangements; (b) selection criteria for
environmental impact tests of subprojects and review of environmental  Financial Sector
regulations; (c) review of Central Bank and PFI plans to strengthen the  Specialist (2)
capacity for economic, monetary and credit analysis, and for implementation
of such plans; (d) installation of a special commission for marketing sites and    Ecologist)
services plot.                                                        Environmentalist (1)
February 1993       Supervision Mission - Review progress (a) in implementation of air transport    Operations Officer (2)
regulations and privatization of Air Burundi; (b) in implementation of legal
reforms and studies; (c) assessment of expatriate consultant requirements for  Lawyer (2)
PMU and PCU (d) assessment of demand under the credit and sites and
services components; (e) review of progress under other T.A. subcomponents   IMF/CBD (2)                x
and donors'contributions and plans.



May 1993            Sunervision Mission - Preparation of detailed terms of reference, staffing and    Operations Officer (2)
schedule of execution of Mid-Term Review of project implementation.    Regulatory Economist
Review of project implementation.                                      (2)
Financial Sector
Specialist (2)
October 1993        Joint Bank/Government Mid-Term Review of Progress in Project            Operations Officer (2)
Implementation                                                         Regulat. Economist (2)
Financial Sector
Specialist (2)
Disbursement (1)
Febr'ary 1994       Supervision Mission - Presentation and review of issues, conclusions and  Operations Officer (2)
recommendations of Mid-Term Review. Preparation of follow-up action plan    Lawyer (1)
and implementing calendar.                                             Regulatory Economist
(2)
Consultant (2)
May 1994            Supervisi onMission - Follow up of Mid-Term Review actioir plan-and revisedf   Operations Officer (2)
policy matrix. Review of progress in project implementation and other
reforms and studies.                                                   Industrial/Regul- tory
Economist (2)
September 1994      Supervision Mission - Review of progress in project implementation and of  Operations Officer (2)
outstanding issues.
March 1995          Supervision Mission - Review of progress in project implementation.     Operations Officer (2)
Consultant (2)
October 1995        Supervision Mssion - (as above)                                         Operations Officer (2)
l  .     _              .                                                   .               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b D:
Supervision Mission - (as above)                                       Operations Officer (2)
October 1996        Supervision Mission - PCR preparation



IBRD 2360
BU RUN DI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUJUMBURA INDUSTRIAL SITES & SERVICES
PROJECT AREA                             /
ALLOCATED INDUSTRIAL ZONE*"             /
EXISTING INDUSTRIAL ZONE/                    /
SITE AND SERVICE AREA
F-    " UPGRADING NEIGHBORHOODS
///////////,URBANIZED AREAS                '                   7
~-'RIVERS
-      -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES      ~I,                     
.1  41'/\                                     I    /  /                                                  -(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.,
I  D
bl(Ff PIAIGAA/lAA
0  Y,  A   Y.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'7                                               1///; 
RWANDA
ZAIRE UU
/,,,.             on  h £ snap~~exci,, dY fot  l,  onthe
TANZANIA                                                1 A   ,porH of The World Bank Group,
/               /11               021'~~~~~~~~~~~~n judrsnen on the legal
stw      yterritory 0, 0ny.
enod merrnet or acceptonce of
tbudresMARCH 1992



