Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2359 BU
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2359 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1992, between the REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received two letters of development policy, 
dated April 15, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to develop the private sector, to promote exports and to 
reinforce the financial sector (hereinafter called the "Program"), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Banque de la Republique 
du Burundi with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available
to the Banque de la Republique du Burundi part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the Banque de la 
Republique du Burundi;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi, established pursuant to 
its Statutes;
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BRB, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BRB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
"Statutes" means the statutes of BRB, dated January 3, 1976, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"Participating Financial Intermediary" and "PFI" mean a commercial or 
development bank or credit institution acceptable to the Association to which BRB, 
under an agreement (a "PFI
Agreement") with such bank or institution, has lent part of the proceeds of the Credit 
for relending to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects;
(f)
"Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made under Part 
A of the Project by a PFI to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of 
the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to BRB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a PFI proposes to 
make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made an Investment;
(i)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;
(j)
"Francs Burundais" and "FBU" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(k)
"Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the unit to be established 
within BRB pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for the 
carrying out of Parts A and C.1 of the Project;
(m)
"MCI" means Ministcre du Commerce et de l'Industrie of the Borrower;
Page  3
(n)
"SCEP" means Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques;
 
(o)
"DGUH" means Direction Generale de l'Urbanisme' et de l'Habitat;
 
(p)
"REGIDESO" means Regie des Eaux et d'Electricite du Burundi;
 
(q)
"PCU" means the policy coordinating unit to be established pursuant to 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement in the MCI for the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project;
(r)
"MTPDU" means Ministcre des Travaux Publics et du Developpement Urbain; 
and
(s)
"DGGM" means Direction Generale de la Geologie et de Mines;
 
(t)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
December 9, 1991 and January 15, 1992, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to twelve million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
12,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) under Part A by BRB on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan or Investment to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Categories (1) 3 (a) and (e), and 
4 (a) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, cause PMU to open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (hereinafter referred to as "Special 
Account A") in a financial institution acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (2) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, cause DGDUH to open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as "Special Account B"), in a financial institution 
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
(d)
the Borrower shall for the purposes of Categories 3 (b) and 4 (b) in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, cause PCU to open and maintain 
in dollars a special
deposit account (hereinafter referred to as "Special Account C") in a financial 
institution acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
(e)
Deposits into, and payments out of, any Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(f)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal
Page  4
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and BRB of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on April 1, 2012, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. BRB, acting through the Project Management Unit (PMU) is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry 
out Parts B, C.2, C.3
and C.4 of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, 
and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause BRB to carry out Parts A, C.1 and C.5 of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and to carry 
out all the obligations of BRB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable BRB to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the portion of the Credit allocated and 
withdrawn under Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to BRB under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BRB under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include, 
inter alia, (i) an undertaking by
BRB to make loans to PFIs under PFI Agreements to be entered into with each PFI for 
financing Investment Projects under Part A of the Project, under the terms and 
conditions specified in the
Project Agreement, (ii) an undertaking by BRB that the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
relent at a variable interest rate equal to the weighted average rate in the 
Borrower's auction market of three-month treasury certificates as determined by BRB, 
or such other rate as may be determined by agreement of the Borrower and BRB and 
satisfactory to the Association, (iii) an undertaking by BRB to reimburse the 
principal to the Borrower in ten (10) equal annual installments starting five (5) 
years after the Effective Date, (iv) an undertaking by BRB to collect and transfer to 
the Borrower all payments of interest and repayment of principal from PFIs under 
sub-loans agreements after retaining, an amount not exceeding one percent of the 
outstanding principal from the interest paid by PFIs or such other amount as may be 
determined from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, 
and (v) the Borrower's undertaking to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions 
Page  6
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, and maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts A, C.1 and C.5 of the 
Project shall be carried out by BRB pursuant to Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Not later than October 1993, the Borrower shall implement 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, reforming and decentralizing the 
Directorate of Notary Public and
authorizing the creation of private paralegal professions including notaries public, 
process-servers, liquidators and auctioneers.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than fifteen months after the 
Effective Date, conduct a Mid-Term Review: (i) to monitor progress in carrying out the 
Program, and (ii) to review the progress achieved in: (A) the implementation of 
Project, including management arrangements, policy, legal, regulatory and 
institutional reform measures, and the development and marketing arrangements of 
industrial sites and services; and (B) in the simplification of project investment 
administrative approval and implementation procedures.
(b)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action 
program, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the 
Project and shall implement such action plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, 
establish and maintain in the MCI a unit, the PCU, with functions, organization and 
operations satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
Page  7
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BRB or the PMU shall have failed to perform any of their obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BRB or the PMU will be able to perform their obligations under the Project 
Agreement, or that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(c)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of BRB or the PMU or their ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of their 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BRB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and BRB or the PMU; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
Page  8
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and 
BRB, respectively;
(b)
BRB has submitted to the Association a satisfactory action plan to 
reinforce the staffing capacity and performance of its inspection department and 
improve on-site and off-site inspection and controls of banks and financial 
institutions;
(c)
the Borrower has taken the necessary measures, satisfactory to the 
Association for: (i) the tax-deductibility of provisions against risks of losses on 
doubtful loans of banks based on BRB's guidelines on bank loan risk classifications 
and provisions thereof, and (ii) the rationalization of taxation of financial 
instruments through the institution of a unique tax on
such instruments.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BRB, 
and is legally binding upon BRB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BRB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on 
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen (15) 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Part A of the             8,010,000         100%
    Project, Invest-
    ment Projects
(2) Part B of the
    Project (MTPDU):
    (a) Civil works           1,820,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (b) Vehicles, office        290,000         100% of foreign
        equipment and                           expenditures and
        consultants'                            90% of local
        services                                expenditures
(3) Part C of the
    Project:
    (a) PMU:
        Vehicles,               280,000         100% of foreign
        consultants'                            expenditures and
        services and                            90% of local
        training                                expenditures
    (b) PCU/MCI:
        Vehicles,               290,000         100% of foreign
Page  10
        office equip-                           expenditures and
        ment, con-                              90% of local
        sultants'                               expenditures
        services and
        training
    (c) Tribunal of
        Commerce:
        Vehicles,               110,000         100% of foreign
        office equip-                           expenditures and
        ment, con-                              90% of local
        sultants'                               expenditures
        services and
        training
    (d) Ministry of
        Energy and
        Mining:
        Office equip-            55,000         100% of foreign
        ment, con-                              expenditures and
        sultants'                               90% of local
        services and                            expenditures
        training
    (e) BRB:
        Consultants'             55,000         100% of foreign
        services and                            expenditures and
        training                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (f) SCEP:
        Consultants'             51,000         100% of foreign
        services and                            expenditures and
        training                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Operating costs:
    (a) PMU                     220,000         80% the first year
                                                70% the second
                                                year and 50% the
                                                third year
    (b) PCU                      36,000         100% the first
                                                year, 80% the
                                                second year and
                                                70% the third
                                                year
(5) Audits                      150,000         100%
(6) Refunding of                801,000         Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepa-                              suant to Section
    ration Advance                              2.02 (f) of this
                                                Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 232,000
                             __________
        TOTAL                12,400,000
                             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means incremental costs incurred by PMU and 
PCU for the implementation of the Project as follows: office supplies, maintenance and 
operation of vehicles
and office equipment and telecommunications, in country missions and travel, 
advertisement and, concerning Category 4 (a), salaries of locally recruited staff; and
(d)
the terms "first year, second year and third year" mean respectively the 
first, the second and the third year from the Effective Date.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) a Sub-loan in respect of Category (1) unless: (i) the Sub-loan has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement,
(ii) a PFI Agreement has been signed by the concerned PFI and BRB, and (iii) the 
Borrower has set up PMU and the Policy Coordinating Unit under MCI, appointed their 
respective directors and supervisors, and approved their respective organizational 
structures, staffing, budget and operating policies and procedures, to the 
satisfaction of the Association; and (c) payments made for expenditures under Category 
(2) unless the Borrower has set up the Commission referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement responsible for the supervision of the implementation of 
Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in Burundi as will contribute to the economic and social 
development of the country, and (ii) foster private enterprise development through 
financial, economic, and institutional reforms.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Line of Credit
 
Financing of Investment Projects through loans granted to Investment Enterprises 
by Participating Financial Intermediaries with the proceeds of the Credit onlent to 
them by BRB.
Part B:
Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
 
Development of industrial sites and services in Bujumbura's industrial zone for 
sale or lease at market prices to local and foreign private industrial promoters.
Part C:
Technical Assistance, Training
 
1.
Technical support by PMU to Investment Enterprises including: advice on 
technical matters such as plant lay-out, selection of equipment, accounting and 
marketing, project implementation and
start-up activities.
2.
Legal Assistance Program
 
(a)
Studies on reform to legislation governing commercial, banking and 
business enterprise activities, real estate regulations and environment protection 
laws.
Page  12
(b)
Assistance for the creation and training of paralegal professions.
 
(c)
Improving the processing and administrative capacity of the Commercial 
Tribunal including: (i) acquisition of filing equipment and of word and data 
processing equipment, (ii) reorganization and computerization of commercial registry 
and archives, and (iii) training of magistrates and other staff of the Commercial 
Tribunal.
3.
Assistance for Policy and Technical Assistance Coordination
 
Setting-up of the Policy Coordinating Unit, under the MCI, for private sector 
development and export promotion and coordination of the various donor programs of 
assistance available in this
respect.
4.
Assistance to Ministry of Energy and Mining
 
Assistance in negotiations for nickel mining exploration and revision of mining 
regulations and Codes.
5.
Financial Sector Technical Assistance
 
(a)
Strengthening the supervision functions of BRB, through reorganization, 
training and professional advice and building up BRB's capacity to conduct monetary 
and credit policies including its capacity: (i) to monitor and forecast main economic 
and financial variables, (ii) to establish monetary objectives, (iii) to put into 
place adequate instruments of monetary supervision, such as open market operations and 
required reserves, (iv) to manage the liberalization of foreign exchange transactions, 
and (v) to supervise foreign exchange activities of commercial banks.
(b)
Study of training requirements of BRB and bank staff, in banking 
activities such as credit management and analysis, accounting, auditing and legal 
administration of litigious credits
with a view to set up a comprehensive bank training program.
(c)
Assistance for study and implementation of new money market instruments 
and mechanisms, including expansion of the scope, and improvement, of the transparency 
of the treasury
certificate auction market, the introduction of new financial instruments and 
securities, as well as for the assessment of the related training requirements.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Burundi may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  13
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items required under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $750,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $11 million, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of procurement procedures acceptable to BRB which shall be consistent with 
commercial practice and satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items required under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost 
the equivalent of an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000 may be 
procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items required under Part C of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $130,000, may be 
procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from a list of at 
least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for Part A of the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of more than $1,000,000, and  (ii) each contract for Part B of the 
Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of more than $150,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ experts and consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
Page  14
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
PMU which, under the administrative supervision of BRB, shall be 
responsible for implementing Parts A and C.1 of the Project, as provided for in 
Schedule 2 to the Project  Agreement;
(b)
MTPDU, through DGUH, shall be responsible for implementing Part B of the 
Project;
(c)
SCEP shall be responsible for the implementation of Part C.2 (a) of the 
Project
(d)
the Ministry of Justice shall be responsible for implementing Part C.2 
(b) and (c) of the Project;
(e)
MCI, through the Policy Coordinating Unit, shall be responsible for the 
overall coordination of Part C.3 of the Project;
(f)
the Ministry of Energy and Mining through DGGM shall be responsible for 
implementing Part C.4 of the Project; and
(g)
BRB shall be responsible for implementing Part C.5 of the Project.
 
2.
PMU, BRB, SCEP, MCI, DGUH, DGGM and Commercial Tribunal shall submit to the 
Association for review quarterly and annual reports on the implementation of the 
various components of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall establish a Commission responsible for the supervision of the 
implementation of Part B of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, including:
(a)
the Commission shall (i) include representatives of the private sector 
through both Chambre de Commerce d'Industrie de Burundi and the various industrial and 
trade associations, including PFIs, PMU, DGDUH and REGIDESO, (ii) set forth terms and 
conditions for sale including auctions of the developed plots to both local and 
foreign private industrial promoters, (iii) undertake the review of and recommend 
measures for the simplification of: (A) administrative, legal and regulatory 
procedures governing the process of land acquisition through sale or lease including
titling and registration procedures; (B) the issuance of building construction permits 
and clearances; (C) the clearance and approval of investment projects by the National 
Investment Commission as the case may require; and (D) the process of registering and 
clearing real estate guaranties and other collateral required by participating 
financial intermediaries under the Project, and (iv) undertake a complementary review 
of lending and guarantee procedures applied by PFIs to private investment borrowers 
with a view to encourage their simplification and acceleration; and
(b)
In determining the selling prices to be applied, the Commission shall 
ensure maximum direct cost recovery and take into account fair and free market based 
land prices.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Categories (1), (3) (a) and (e), and 
(4) (a), in respect of Special Account A, Catego ry (2), in respect of Special Account 
B, and Categories (3) (b) and (4) (b), in respect of Special Account C set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  15
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the 
provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the 
Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Association shall 
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account A; (ii) an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account B; and (iii) an amount equivalent to 
$50,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
C.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
Page  16
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in paragraph 
(b) of 
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
 
(3)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of 
such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are 
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project 
Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Credit: (i) have received  no applications or requests permitted under sub-paragraphs 
(a) or (b) of said paragraph; or  (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, 
the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right to submit such 
applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  17
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or 
portion of 
the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Credit 
shall be cancelled."
