CREDIT NUMBER 2359 BU
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
Dated                             , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2359 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              ), 1992, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS OCIATION (the Association) and the
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI (BRB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Burundi (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that BRB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BRB, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BRB on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BRB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BANCOBU" means Bancrue Commerciale du Burundi;
(b)   "BCB, means Bancrue de Cr&dit de Bujumbura;
(c)   "SBF" means Soci&t6 Burundaise de Financement;
(d)   "BBCI"  means   Bancrue  Burundaise  de  Commerce  et
d'Investisissement;


﻿-2-
(e)   "BNDE"  means  Bancue  Nationale  de  D&veloppement
Economique;
(f)   "MBB" means Meridien Bank of Burundi; and
(g)   "CAMOFI" means Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BRB
Section 2.01. (a) BRB declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, C.1 and
C.5 of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management and in accordance with its
Statutes.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and BRB shall
otherwise agree, BRB shall carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) BRB undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Investments will be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   BRB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of BRB; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. BRB shall (a) cause PFIs to carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of


﻿-3-
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project; and (b) carry out the obligations referred to in (a) above
in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts C.1 and C.5 of the
Project.
Section 2.05. BRB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, BRB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) BRB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   BRB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by BRB of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BRB shall cause PMU to maintain procedures
and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BRB.
(b)   BRB shall cause PMU to:
(i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;


﻿-4-
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. BRB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
various currencies (including Burundi Franc) used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BRB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate; or
(ii)   a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BRB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For Banque de la R&publicque:
B.P. 705
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address                 Telex:


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BRB or by BRB on behalf of the Borrower under
the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
Governor, or by such other person or persons as BRB shall designate
in writing, and BRB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  '  Lapa         ' VV
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and conditions of Sub-loans
and Investments
1.    (a)   Lending Terms Sub-loans approved by PFIs will carry
variable and market-determined lending rates which will be reviewed
annually by BRB and the Association to ensure that they reflect
market rates. PFIs will be charged a variable interest rate equal to
the weighted average yield in the Borrower's auction market for
three-month treasury certificates, as determined by BRB. Repayment
periods of Sub-loans shall not exceed thirteen years, including a
grace period of two to three years for repayment of principal.
(b)   PFIs Eligibility criteria. Any commercial bank, develop-
ment bank or financial institution registered in the Republic of
Burundi and engaged or willing to engage in medium or long-term
lending will be eligible as a PFI, provided it submits to BRB (i)
independently audited and satisfactory annual financial accounts and
statements on its finances and operations, and (ii) an undertaking
to reinforce its loan supervision and collection of bad debts; to
reinforce its internal auditing and accounting procedures; and to
upgrade and train its professional staff.
(c)   Accreditation of PFIs will be based on a special review
by BRB and approval by the Association. If accreditation is not
granted, the concerned institution will be informed of the reasons.
Such institution can renew its application after complying with the
requirements. Accreditation may be withdrawn in the event of the
failure of a PFI to comply at any time with the requirements set
forth above.
(d)   Investment Enterprise Eligibility. The criteria for an
Investment Enterprise to be eligible for a Sub-loan include:
(i)   a determination that the Investment Project is
technically feasible, financially and economical-
ly viable and environmentally sound;
(ii)   a minimum expected financial rate of return of at
least 10 percent. In addition, for Investment
Projects estimated to cost US$350,000 or more, a
minimum expected economic rate of return of 10
percent, in real terms, will be required;


﻿-8-
(iii)   a minimum projected debt service coverage of 1.5
over the life of the Investment Project, and a
maximum debt to equity ratio of 2.33:1.00, calcu-
lated on the basis of the Investment enterprise's
total debts; and
(iv)   the Investment Project satisfies environmental
impact tests to be undertaken as deemed necessary
by PMU and the Association.
(e)   Eligible purposes. All productive Investment Projects,
including investments in associated permanent working capital for
new projects, contributing to the economic development of the
Republic of Burundi, with the exception of land acquisition and
housing construction, will be eligible for financing under the
Project.
(f)   Limitations. (i) Sub-loans for any Investment Project
for extension or rehabilitation of existing facilities may not
exceed eighty percent (80%) of its total cost; and (ii) Sub-loans
for any other Investment Project may not exceed seventy (70%)
percent of the proposed Investment Project.
2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)   the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by the Association and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date
-on which the Association shall have received the application and
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in
respect of such Sub-loan or Investment; or
(b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received the request and information
required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of the Development Credit
Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-
loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of
$1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts


﻿-9-
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or of any other credit, provided for in any outstanding
development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of
which have been or are being used for financing goods and services
directly and materially related to such Investment Project the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association; provided that the first three Sub-
loans (and in any event the first Sub-loan based on an appraisal
report requiring an economic rate of return calculation) presented
for approval by BANCOBU, BCB, SBF, BBCI and CAMOFI respectively,
shall not be free limit Sub-loans.
3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, BRB shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to
the Association, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of the credit to be
used for the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by BRB for authorization to make withdraw-
als from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1997.
4.    Sub-loans and Investments shall be made on terms whereby BRB
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and BRB, including, in the case of any
Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the
case of any Investment, the right to:


﻿- 10 -
(a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   require that the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)   obtain all such information as the Association or BRB
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and
(f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with PFI.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
for Parts A and C.1 of the Project
1.    Under Part A of the Project, BRB shall onlend funds to PFIs as
demand for Investment Project arises. PFIs will make medium- and
long-term Sub-loans in Burundi for the purposes referred to in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The line of credit will be managed by
PMU, under the administrative supervision of BRB.
2.    BRB shall, for the purposes of Parts A and C.1 of the Project
establish and maintain the PMU with functions, organization and
operations satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(a)   Functions:
The PMU shall, inter alia:
(i)   ensure adherence of PFIs to established proce-
dures in selecting eligible Investment Projects
and ensure application of appropriate standards
for Sub-loan appraisals;
(ii)   review eligibility and authorize financing under
Part A of the Project for Investment Projects
submitted by PFIs. For Investment Projects esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of US$350,000 equiv-
alent or less, PMU shall insure that the requests
meet the eligibility criteria and give its ap-
proval within five working days from submission.
For Investment Projects estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$350,000 or more, PMU shall
review the requests in more detail, give its
comments on the quality of the appraisal to the
PFI and ensure that the eligibility and financing
criteria are met, all within a maximum period of
ten working days;
(iii)   ensure liaison between the Association, the PFIs
and other donors on matters related to the Pro-
ject;


﻿- 12 -
(iv)   provide guidance to potential beneficiaries for
the preparation of Investment Projects including
safeguards for projects with potenTial environ-
mental hazards, and procurement pcedures;
(v)   organize training courses and seminars in project
appraisal and supervision techniques for BRB and
other bank staff and selected private entrepre-
neurs including staff of local consulting firms;
(vi)  manage subloan disbursement and collection opera-
tions upon approval, in relation with the Credit
Department of BRB;
(vii)   supervision of projects; and
(viii)   preparation of the Project Completion Report
within six months of the Closing Date.
(b)   Staff.
PMU staff shall, inter alia, include:
1 economist (Director), 1 credit analyst, 1 financial
analyst, 1 engineer/computer analyst, 1 technical engineer, and
appropriate administrative staff.
(c)   PMU will receive a spread of at least one percent per
annum, on the outstanding amount of Sub-loans to cover its adminis-
trative expenses, this spread will be reviewed periodically by BRB
and the Association to ensure that it covers the actual administra-
tive expenses of PMU.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


