Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repet No. P-2309-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 26, 1978
dTocs unt h_s a resticd dI*rIb tI d my be ud by recpients  ly In e aem nane of
heir officl dutis.. lb contents MY nst oderwie be dbesoed without Worl Bk authorIton. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 12, 1978)
Rs 1.00         =         Paise 100
US$1.00         =         Rs 8.51
Rs 1.00                   US$0.1175
Rs 1 million    =         US$117,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disburse-
ment period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AI     -   Artificial Insemination
AMUL   -   Anand Milk Union Limited
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
DCS    -   Dairy Cooperative Societies
EEC    -   European Economic Community
GOI    -   Government of India
GOS    -   State Government(s)
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDC    -   Indian Dairy Corporation
lpd    -   liters per day
NDDB   -   National Dairy Development Board
NDRI   -   National Dairy Research Institute
WFP    -   World Food Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:       Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC) for onlending to coopera-
tive dairy institutions; National Dairy Development Board
(NDDB) for training and research.
Amount:              US$150 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending
Terms:               (a)  India to IDC:  At interest rate of 7.5% per annum
over twenty years. Installment repayments to coin-
cide approximately with amortization of subloans
under (b) below.
(b) IDC to cooperative dairy institutions: At interest
rate of 8.5% per annum, repayable over 20 years
including up to five years grace on interest and
principal. Interest during grace period to be
capitalized.
(c) India to NDDB: Funds to be provided as a grant.
(d) GOI to carry exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The Project is intended to increase the production of milk
in about 20,000 villages of India through a cooperative
development program which includes animal breeding, feed-
ing and health improvement, and the development of facil-
ities for milk collection, processing and marketing. The
project would improve farm incomes and provide employment
opportunities for some 3.5 million village farmers, inc-
luding 500,000 landless laborers. The risks associated
with the project are related mostly to the difficulty of
managing and coordinating a large-scale organizational
and training effort. The considerable experience already
accumulated with cooperative dairy development in India
using the AMUL pattern augurs well for a large-scale
replication of the program. The assumptions made in
regard to project phasing, costs, yields and commodity
prices are based on recent experience of ongoing dairy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



projects in India. Measures to coordinate, monitor and
expedite all phases of implementation have been discussed
with GOI, NDDB, IDC and State Governments.
The project, which would be implemented over 7 years,
consists of:
(a) the establishment of some 20,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) grouped into approximately 50 coop-
erative dairy unions which would in turn be grouped
into about 25 cooperative milk marketing federations;
(b) the construction of dairy processing facilities
with a total incremental capacity of about 5
million liters per day;
(c) the provision of packaging, distribution and trans-
port facilities to handle the marketing of project
milk;
(d) the provision of storage and long-distance transport
facilities to support the establishment of a buffer-
stock of dairy products and the development of a
national marketing network to balance inter-regional
disparities in milk supply and demand; and
(e) the provision of training, research, and technical
assistance.
Estimated                                                        (US$ million)
Cost:                                                     Local  Foreign  Total
DCS Equipment                            6.9     0.4      7.3
Union AI and Services                   10.8     5.6    16.4
DCS and Union Establishment Cost        62.9      1.3    64.2
Processing                              67.5    48.8   116.3
Distribution                            36.9    30.2    67.1
Supporting Investments
IDC       -  Lamination               1.3      1.7      3.0
-  Storage                   .3       0      0.3
-  Tankers                  5.6     1.4      7.0
NDDB      -  Training                 2.7      0.3      3.0
-  Research                 2.3     0.3      2.6
Technical Assistance                       0     3.2      3.2
Sub-Total                           197.1    93.3   290.4
Contingencies                        49.8    23.6    73.4
Total Cost                          246.9   116.9   363.8



Financing                                                     (US$ million)
Plan:                                                   Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                                  33.1    116.9   150.0
GOI                                   7.0       -        7.0
IDC  /a                             201.2       -      201.2
DCS                                   5.6       -        5.6
Total                          246.9    116.9   363.8
/a  Of this amount, about US$100 million equivalent is
expected to come from the sale locally of skim milk
powder and butter oil expected to be donated by the
EEC to support the project. EEC has indicated to GOI
that it would be prepared to donate up to 186,000
tons of skim milk powder and 72,000 tons of butter
oil spread over the next six years, subject to a
yearly review of requirements and IDA approval of
this project. However, GOI has assured IDA that
it will provide all funds required for the project
irrespective of any possible commodity donations.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                          (US$ millions)
FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85
Annual           6      23    42    40    23    11        5
Cummulative      6      29    71   111   134   145   150
Rate of Return:           25%
Appraisal Report:         No. 1964-IN dated May 26, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$150 million oA
standard IDA terms to help finance a project for increasing the production
of milk in about 20,000 villages of India through a cooperative development
program which includes animal upgrading and health improvement, and the
development of facilities for milk collection, processing and marketing. The
bulk of the proceeds of the credit (US$146 million) would be relent to the
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC) for twenty years with interest at 7,5% per
annum. IDC would in turn onlend the funds to dairy cooperative institutipns
at 8.5% interest per annum, repayable over 20 years, including up to five
years grace on interest and principal. Interest accrued during the grace
period would be capitalized. Funds for training, research and te;hnieal
assistance (US$4 million) would be passed to the National Dairy Development
Board (NDDB) as a grant. The exchange risk would be borne by oQI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospectp of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years.  The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second National Seed Project (Report No.
P-2149-IN), dated May 17, 1978.



4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys many
of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development. Although
literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well trained
administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entrepreneural
class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by international
comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is relatively well-
placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very large reserves of
coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric potential. Recent
petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited and prospects are
bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the infrastructure
needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute terms the
irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are each among
the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed, world. However,
considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exist. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950's; life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940's to 45-50 years in the 1970's; school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children in primary school ages and from 5% to 29% of children in
secondary school ages since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950's to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.



-3-
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An
adverse shift in terms of trade starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction in the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production in iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with
1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved



- 4 -
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent rabi crop expectations, price stability
and good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange.
The circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the devel-
opment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development towards improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step towards complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented-by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978-79.



- 5 -
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years.  Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth plan.  On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970's. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension of more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid 1960's--large
unutilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and
low productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one
of the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries,
which make up a significant portion of the sector. Low buoyancy of demand
for industrial products from all sources--not only from investments but also
from agriculture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint.
Further import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufac-
tured goods in the future because most opportunities for efficient import
substitution have been exploited. Higher effective demand from increased
growth of real incomes from greater productivity in both agriculture and
manufacturing, sustained increases in exports and increased investment,
particularly from the public sector, all can raise demand for industrial
production.



- 6 -
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing, and, within the small scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to
the small scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality will not fall as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 thousand to the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990's, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The government's goal to eliminate unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.



- 7 -
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development in the next few years. With good medium-
term prospects for India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in
invisible receipts and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments,
the net availaV`lity of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is
projected to rise over the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7
billion in 1977/78 to US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum.
Given the unlikely need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally
important items -- e.g., petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and
cotton -- other imports can increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next
five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of GDP
from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the present
situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will be
sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will be
necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort will
be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks in
pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs of
its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 development
credits to India totalling US$2,013 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$890 million has been
repaid, and US$2,120 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 8 -
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.4 million, US$22.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions.  Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation.  However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium and small scale industry.



28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. As of March 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,159
million, of which US$594 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$565 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND DAIRYING IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages
about 70% of the labor force, has recently contributed about 43% of value
added and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments
in agriculture have been given priority by GOI and State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
31.       Some 20% of the working population in rural areas have non-
agricultural occupations, another 30% are landless agricultural laborers and
the residual 50% occupy land holdings wholly or partly their own. Farm hold-
ings number about 50 million and cover 350 million acres of crop land distri-
buted amongst 576,000 villages. About 20% of crop land is double cropped
each year.  Average farm size approximates 6 to 7 acres, but about 50% of
farms have less than 2.5 acres (9% of all crop land) and 15% have more than
10 acres (61% of all crop land). Rice, wheat, coarse grains, pulses, and
oilseeds are the crops which occupy most arable land.
32.        Bullocks supply most of the energy required for land cultivation.
The pattern of livestock kept throughout India is dominated by the need for
draft power. All farmers who can afford to do so keep a pair of bullocks and,
if possible, a cow to breed replacement bullocks. There are some 80 million
draft males in use, 90% of which are cattle bred from 54 million cattle cows
which also produce small quantities of milk; about 500 liters per cow each
lactation. Buffalo males find favor for draft purposes only in those few



- 10 -
paddy areas where roughage is plentiful. Additionally, most villages keep
some buffalo cows mainly for milk production, each cow yielding about 800
liters per lactation. In total there are almost 30 million buffalo cows of
breeding age accounting for some 40% of the national milk production, the
other 60% being mainly cattle milk. Total milk production at 23 million tons
per annum is sufficient to provide 105 grams of milk per capita per day, about
2/3 of the nutritional requirement 1/ in this largely vegetarian land.
33.       Because most of India is subject to a highly seasonal pattern
of rainfall and vegetative growth, milk supplies in most areas show signifi-
cant seasonal variations. Peak supplies commonly occur in December when they
reach a volume normally 2 to 3 times that available in April to August, the
months of minimal supply. Seasonal peaks in supply are commonly converted to
milk products, typically ghee (butter oil), curd and sweetened condensed milk,
by villagers.
34.       Dairy animals have the unique capacity to convert large quantities
of otherwise unusable crop by-products to high value foods and there is,
in most situations, a complementarity between milk and food grain production.
This complementarity may, however, give way to competition as stock numbers
and milk production increase, since crop residues are no longer sufficient
to supply total livestock requirements. The introduction of suitable fodder
crops in the cropping pattern, enhancement of animal productivity through
crossbreeding and improvements in animal health are necessary to ensure that
dairy activities lead to productive use of land. Organized village dairying
has been shown to promote these objectives and to lead to higher milk output
without a negative impact on foodgrain production. Modern dairying also
enhances human nutrition and helps alleviate the plight of the landless by
improving employment and income prospects in rural areas. Indirectly it
helps improve crop yields by enabling farmers to spend more on fertilizers
and other crop inputs. Dairy development has consequently been recognized by
GOI as a key mechanism for effecting economic and social improvement in rural
areas.
Development of Organized Dairy Sector
35.       In the first half of this century dairying in India was largely
unorganized. Two important exceptions were the military farms largely stocked
with western breeds to supply milk to army stations, and plantation areas into
which purebred bulls were imported and randomly crossbred with local cows.
Apart from the pockets of improved animals thus created, dairying was dominated
by the makers of traditional milk products and by city milk vendors. In the
years of World War II some private dairy companies were established to make
butter and cheese for the army. One such company became the prime supplier
to the country's first urban milk supply scheme by shipping milk in cans, by
1/   Indian Medical Research Institute, 1976.  This statistic says nothing
about access to milk supplies which is highly skewed in favor of higher
income groups. By way of comparison, milk consumption per capita in
the U.S. is about 730 grams per day.



- 11 -
rail, from Kaira District in Gujarat to Bombay, some 425 km distant. After a
checkered history, the private milk market monopoly gained by the company in
Bombay was broken by the formation of a cooperative of the milk producers of
Kaira District, subsequently to become known as the "Anand Milk Union Ltd."
or "Amul".
36.       By the mid-1960's a number of milk producer cooperatives, based on
the Amul pattern, had been started and the National Dairy Development Board
(NDDB) was established to assist in initiating new milk producer cooperatives
in some of the major milksheds of the country. Throughout the next decade the
Amul pattern of dairy development evolved further and has proven successful
under widely varying ecological and cultural conditions in India. Essential
elements of the Amul model involve the formation of a dairy cooperative
society (DCS) of milk producers at the village level, the selection of a board
of management which sets the policies of the DCS within the framework of a
general set of bylaws applicable to all Amul type dairy cooperatives, and the
appointment of a local person as a paid cooperative secretary. Each morning
and evening the DCS buys milk from all producers in the village who wish to
sell it and makes payment to each producer (usually within 12 hours) based on
the fat content and volume of the milk. The DCS also sells compounded cattle
feed to its members, and provides artificial insemination and first-aid
services to cattle. All milk producers in the village are eligible to be
members irrespective of caste or sex.
37.       A further key element in the Amul model is that DCS within a 50-75
km radius (usually one district) are members of a collectively owned milk
union. Milk from the village DCS is brought to the dairy factory of each
union and pasteurized; some is then forwarded in insulated tankers to the
major cities to be consumed as liquid milk, while the balance is processed
into milk products. Each milk union, which typically processes and markets
100,000 to 300,000 liters of milk daily, has a Board of Directors elected by
the producer-members. This Board employs a professional manager who is the
union's chief executive. The union also provides to members the technical
inputs needed to sustain and increase milk production. Thus, the unions
organize mobile veterinary clinics, artificial insemination centers, supplies
of balanced cattlefeed concentrates, etc., which are marketed to the producers
through their own DCS.
38.       Recently, existing milk unions have been joirlng with other nearby
unions to form federations also registered under the Cooperatives Act, enabling
all member-unions to benefit from shared processing, marketing, financing, and
investment programs managed by specialists employed by each federation. Thus,
the Amul model has evolved a "three-tier" structure of village dairy coopera-
tives, unions of village dairy cooperatives, and federations of milk unions.
The whole system is owned by the primary producers of rir, and thus operates
to their benefit.
39.       The margin required for financial viabii3  -              1:oi-  tk process-
ing and marketing in India is about two-thirds of thar tsu;   c. btained by
traditional milk vendors.  Milk sold in liquid form from bulk ve,-ding units
incurs the least processing and marketing charges (about Rs 0.30-0.40 per
liter).  The competitive status of city milk prod&ucers smid traditional milk



- 12 -
vendors is thus being steadily eroded by the cheaper production costs rural
milk producers incur, and by the economies of scale and better product util-
ization offered by modern dairy technology. The consequence is a steady
dwindling of the blight of city-kept cattle, a better and cheaper milk product
for the consumer and a new remunerative activity for many small village
farmers and landless laborers.
40.       Milk provides about two-thirds of all animal protein consumed in
India and family expenditure on milk and milk products tends to increase pro-
portionately more than income. Daily per capita consumption in the four major
cities of India is estimated at 226 grams, about twice the national average
consumption, and urban demand is estimated to be expanding by 5% each year.
Sales of milk in urban areas at present approximate 19 million liters per day
(lpd). Of this amount about 3.4 million lpd is provided by the organized milk
sector, and the balance by traditional milk vendors. In most markets the
availability of milk from the organized sector limits sales, and some 20% of
the 3.4 million lpd is provided from milk recombined from imported skim milk
powder and butter oil. By 1985, GOI plans for the organized sector to pro-
vide almost 40% of total marketed milk rather than the present 17%; it is
also seeking to substitute present imports of milk powder and butter oil with
local products. By 1985 sales of almost 10 million lpd are expected from the
organized milk market.
Other IDA Supported Dairy Projects
41.       Current IDA operations in India include three dairy development
projects, in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, with total costs of
approximately US$140 M (US$76.1 in IDA Credits). Each project is increasing
milk production by financing the formation of district milk unions, each com-
prising about 400 village dairy cooperative societies (DCS). Credit funds are
channeled through the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
to commercial banks for onlending to milk unions. Project planning calls
for the majority shareholding of each union, presently held by GOI and respec-
tive state government, to be owned eventually by the member DCS to conform to
the Amul pattern. Milk unions in the three projects are incorporated into
state dairy corporations which provide overall services to their constituent
unions, including the provision of bulls and semen, consultant services in
specialist areas, assistance in financial arrangements, and market research
and coordination.
42.       Farmer response to the projects has been excellent.  Some 1,500
societies have been organized so far, and the volume of milk collected and
consequent revenues have exceeded appraisal expectations. About two-thirds of
DCS members are small and marginal farmers with about 1-2 ha landholding, or
landless laborers. Milk collections per DCS at present average 200 liters per
day. DCS are profitable with average reserves of about Rs 1,000 obtained in
the first year of operations, providing a commtnal resource now being used to
finance village development programs such as schools, water supply systems,
and access roads. At the dairy processing plant level, progress in arranging
loan financing to the unions and in IDA disbursement has been slower than
expected. The financial arrangements for financing union investments under



- 13 -
these three projects are cumbersome, and have resulted in frustration, lengthy
delays, and multiple appraisal of subproject loan requests as funds are
channelled to unions in a two stage process through ARDC and commercial banks.
Under the proposed project, financing arrangements have been streamlined and
TDC will lend directly to milk unions. GOI has agreed that similar arrange-
r ents should be incorporated into the three ongoing projects to L._ng them
.nto harmony with the pattern proposed under the national project. GOI has
requested that, upon approval of the proposed project, amendments be made to
the credit agreements for the ongoing three projects to make IDC available as
an alternative financing channel. These amendments would be made.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was prepared for GOI by the National Dairy Development
Board. It was appraised by IDA in November/December 1977. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 1964-IN, dated May 26, 1978 is being distributed separately. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in May 1978. The negotiating delegation for
India was headed by Dr. V. Kurien, Chairman, IDC, and Mrs. A.R. Malhotra,
Additional Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
44.       The purpose of the project is to finance an integrated program for
increasing the production of milk in about 20,000 villages of India through
replicating the Amul cooperative development model which includes animal up-
grading and health improvement, and the development of facilities for milk
collection, processing and marketing (see paragraphs 35-37 above). The pro-
ject also seeks to strengthen the principal institutions responsible for dairy
development in India, the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC) and the National
Dairy Development Board (NDDB). The major components of the project, which
would be implemented over 7 years, are as follows:
(a) the establishment of 20,000 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) grouped into approximately 50 cooperative dairy
unions and in turn up to 25 cooperative milk marketing
federations;
(b) the construction of dairy processing facilities with
a total incremental capacity of about 5 million liters
per day;
(c) the provision of packaging, distribution and transport
facilities to handle the marketing of project milk;
(d) the provision of storage and long-distance transport
facilities to support the establishment of a buffer
stock of dairy products and the development of a
national marketing network to balance inter-regional
disparities in milk supply and demand; and



- 14 -
(e) the strengthening of training and research facilities
of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) and pro-
vision of technical assistance.
45.       The project represents the first phase of a broader GOI plan to
develop about 33,000 dairy cooperative societies and their related unions and
federations in selected milksheds of India. The target market includes the
four major cities, about 150 smaller urban centers and other sizeable rural
towns. The scope of this first phase project - to establish the first 20,000
dairy cooperative societies and related processing and marketing investments -
is related to the capacity of the IDC and the NDDB to plan and commit expendi-
tures over 3 years. Project funds are expected to be fully committed by IDC
by the end of the third year of the project, after which a second phase proj-
ect is expected to be presented by GOI to the Association for consideration.
Project Implementation
46.       Two institutions, the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) and
the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC) would be responsible for carrying out
the project.
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
47.       NDDB, a statutory body set up by GOI in 1965 with headquarters at
Anand in Gujarat, provides technical, engineering, advisory, training, re-
search and support services for the development of India's dairy industry.
It would be the key technical agency responsible for this project. With a
total staff of 515, the majority of whom are highly qualified and experienced
engineers, livestock specialists and dairy technologists, NDDB has the capa-
bility of preparing and implementing dairy development projects for GOI and
state governments. Other services provided by NDDB include preparation of
detailed engineering designs for dairies, milk chilling centers and cattle
feed plants, the turnkey construction and commissioning of dairy plants, and
the organization of field teams to assist client unions to establish DCS on
the Amul pattern. NDDB has six regional offices in the major milk market
centers. IDA's experience with NDDB in connection with ongoing Indian dairy
projects confirms the technical competence of this institution. Under the
project, it is expected that NDDB will be engaged by most of the partici-
pating unions/federations to provide advisory services in project identifi-
cation, preparation of feasibility studies, milk production enhancement
programs, preparation of specifications and bidding documents, bid evaluations,
supervision of procurement and construction, staff recruitment and training
and market research.
48.       To ensure that NDDB would be able to handle the increased volume of
business implied by the project, several actions are being taken to strengthen
it. To prepare for the increased volume of consultancy business, the manage-
ment of NDDB have arranged to strengthen the Planning Department by recruiting
five project analysts with expertise in finance and economics and two econo-
mists specializing in marketing and to transfer from its other Departments
engineers, livestock specialists and dairy technologists suitable for full



- 15 -
time employment in feasibility study work. The immediate objective is to
provide staff adequate for the formation of five project preparation teams,
each with a full complement of necessary specialization.
49.       In orier to assist in coordinating the work load of feasibility
studies, and to assist training of new project staff in project identLfication,
field investigations and report preparation, 60 man-months of technical assist-
ance services are provided to NDDB in the project. The project would also
enable NDDB to expand existing, and create new, training facilities. The pro-
ject would finance expansion of staff and facilities at the Mansinh Itistitute,
at NDDB headquarters in Anand, and the establishment of new training facilities
at four regional centers, where courses patterned after those available at NDDB
headquarters would be offered. Capital investments include hostel facilities,
classrooms and teaching materials. Because training of key federation and
union staff is an essential step towards project implementation, a sum not
exceeding US$1.0 M would be made available by IDA as retroactive financing
for expenditures incurred on project training and technical assistance between
January 1, 1978 and credit signing.
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)
50.       IDC is the other national institution which carries major respon-
sibility and deserves much credit for India's dairy development through
cooperatives. This Corporation, wholly owned by GOI, was established in
1970. IDC's Board of Directors comprises nine members, including the Managing
Director who is the chief executive; total staff numbers 160. IDC's financial
functions are complementary to the technical services provided by NDDB. IDC
has concentrated its efforts on increasing the availability of long term credit
to dairy cooperatives and has worked in close collaboration with NDDB in plan-
ning, promoting, financing and monitoring dairy development based on the Amul
pattern. IDC's major activity to date has been to manage "Operation Flood
I". Under this scheme, milk products given to India as food aid by World Food
Program have been sold by IDC and the proceeds used for financing dairy devel-
opment projects and related infrastructure. This approach would be continued
under the proposed project, where EEC is expected to donate milk commodities
to IDC (see paragraph 67). IDC would be the financing agency under the
project and have major responsibility for monitoring implemention. Though
established only in 1970, IDC has remarkable experience in promoting, planning,
appraising, financing and monitoring dairy development projects.
51.       The IDC provides financing to state governments, state dairy corpo-
rations and cooperative institutions concerned with dairy development. IDC
believes that the implementing institutions should be given all possible
autonomy in their decision-making process and be free of government inter-
ference in day-to-day management and pricing policy. To date IDC has
declined to take equity capital in the institutions it has financed; it has
also declined to nominate directors to the boards of these institutions. By
assuming this position it has tried to be a pacesetter in providing autonomy
to a cooperative movement dominated in the past by government nominees
to management and board positions.



- 16 -
52.       IDC has a share capital of Rs 10 million wholly owned by GOI.
Although it has wide powers to receive money on deposit or loan and to borrow
funds, bonds or debentures have not been issued nor has any long-term loan
been obtained from government or banking institutions. IDC is a non-profit
organization. Its Memorandum of Association accordingly prohibits disburse-
ment of any part of its income as dividend to the shareholders. Thus, IDC
is constituted as a service organization. The implementation of the Operation
Flood I project has been financed solely by external grants and has not
depended on the availability of share capital or borrowed funds. All other
activities of the Corporation are in principle operated on a no-profit/no-loss
basis. IDC's earnings are at present limited to interest on the surplus funds
on deposit in banks and on project loans outstanding.
53.       IDC's loan recovery record has been excellent.  Overdues are small
and invariably have been collected within six months of the due dates. As
of March 31, 1977, the total of disbursements made by IDC for dairy development
projects was Rs 540 million of which Rs 178 million had been paid out in the
form of grants. Loans outstanding at that date were Rs 336 million. Loan
repayments are recycled by further lending. The annual inflow of funds from
loan repayments available for recycling would amount to Rs 40 million in
1977/78, rise gradually to almost Rs 100 million in 1981/82. IDC's financial
position is sound. Its share capital has remained at the original Rs 10 mil-
lion. Funds created by sales of WFP commodities amounted to Rs 234.6 million
(US$26.9 million) and reserve accumulations amounted to Rs 76 million (US$8.7
million) as of March 31, 1977. Current assets and loans, net of current
liabilities, were Rs 300 million.
54.       In the past IDC's Project Division has had to call frequently on the
technical expertise of NDDB to support its project appraisal and monitoring
functions. With the expanded work load facing this division, the Board of
IDC has recognized the desirability of IDC having an adequate staff of its own
for project appraisal and monitoring. IDC management are therefore arranging
to strengthen the Appraisal and Monitoring Divisions by recruiting additional
professionally qualified executives specialized in project analysis and imple-
mentation. IDC would recruit this additional staff by drawing on executives
of proven ability from ongoing dairy and industrial projects, consultancy
organizations and financing institutions.
55.       The capability of IDC's Project Appraisal Division would also be
strengthened with 24 man-months of technical assistance services provided in
the project. The consultants engaged would, in addition to reviewing the
appraisal reports prepared by IDC staff, undertake special training of IDC's
professional staff engaged in project appraisal and monitoring work.
Preparation and Appraisal of Subprojects
56.       Project implementation would be on a state-by-state basis.  All
states would be eligible to participate. The first step in a given state would
be the development of a general plan for dairy development which would be
formulated following discussions between the state government and IDC. The
state government and IDC would exchange letters which would outline the



- 17 -
state's proposal for dairy .evelopment (i.e., location of milkshed areas,
number of cooperatives and milk unions, transfer of existing state and dairy-
ing facilities to the cooperative framework, etc.), and define the initial
mutual responsibilities for subproject formulation and preparation. These
letters would serve as an interim agreement between the Government and IDC
upon which the planning of the federation and its constituent milK unions and
DCS would be initiated. A number of states have already prepared dairy
development proposals, and discussions have taken place, or are in progress,
with IDC. IDC would review its work program annually with the Association
(see Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement). IDC's probable
investment program for the first year of the project was discussed during
negotiations.
57.       The establishment of the dairy cooperative industry in a state would
follow the modus operandi developed successfully by the NDDB for initiating
DCS, unions and federations in the past. The first step in a state will
be to establish a nucleus, or skeleton, federation, which would be responsible
for initiating and managing further action required to organize DCS and their
unions. As each federation is started up, it will, be assisted by consultants,
in most cases NDDB, in developing a detailed feasibility study and preparing
a subproject report suitable for appraisal by IDC. This report would be com-
prehensive and contain technical, organizational, commercial, market, and
financial analyses. It would also define the requirements for a spearhead
team. This team would comprise the initial staff of the federation, so that
the federation would have the full professional staff complement required for
implementing the subproject. The spearhead team will be recruited and trained
by the NDDB, using the facilities of the original Anand Cooperative to give
team members practical experience in working with, and for, farmers. The
make-up of a typical spearhead team consists of various technical and man-
agement disciplines and can include up to 180 professionals, depending on
the stage of dairy development in the particular state where the team begins
operations.
58.       Appraisal by IDC of the individual subprojects would include a
thorough review of these feasibility study reports including field investi-
gations and the preparation of a summary appraisal report containing the
recommendations of the appraisal teams for submission to IDC's board through
the Managing Director. Subproject appraisals would be based on criteria
agreed with IDA and would include sound technical, economic and marketing
analyses (see Section 2.09 of draft Project Agreement).
59.       Following satisfactory IDC appraisal of the subproject, IDC would
enter into a loan agreement with the milk federation and with the state govern-
ment concerned. Provision of field teams to create DCS, for the contracting
and construction of processing plants, and plans and funds for staff training
would be formalized in the loan agreement, mainly as subcontracts with NDDB.
IDC, as the project authority, would have responsibility for monitoring imple-
mentation of all subprojects. Monitoring of the progress of each subproject,
against a specific implementation schedule specified in each IDC appraisal
report, would be carried out by IDC with field visits and supported periodic-
ally by IDA supervision missions. The first five subprojects appraised by IDC



- 18 -
would be forwarded to IDA prior to IDC approval.  Subsequently, each sub-
project would be forwarded to IDA for review after IDC approval (see Section
2.10 of draft Project Agreement).
Processing Facilities
60.       The project aims at the construction of about 5 million liters per
day (lpd) of processing capacity. Included in this processing capacity would
be about 1.0 million lpd of product manufacture, mainly milk powder and butter,
to provide for seasonal balancing of milk supplies. Processing investment
costs per union are based on a model that assumes a mix of plant expansion and
new plant construction and on a product mix that assumes 80% of sales as liquid
milk and 20% for conversion to butter, milk powder and other dairy products.
The project would provide for the takeover and expansion of existing process-
ing plants where practical, and for the construction of new plants. The spe-
cific investment plans for each federation would be based on a detailed study
of existing processing facilities in each state and would contain a market
analysis. To assist in the start up phase of newly established dairy process-
ing plants, 50 man years of technical assistance in the form of experienced
dairy plant managers would be provided.
Distribution and Marketing
61.       The project is geared to supplying milk to the 4 major metropolitan
centers (Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras) and to about 150 cities each with
a population of about 100,000 or more. The project would provide incremental
facilities to market about 4.5 million lpd of liquid milk in these major urban
markets and in the smaller cities and towns in the vicinity of project areas
(20% of milk procured by the dairy plants would be converted to milk products).
The major investments necessary to provide adequate milk distribution and
marketing facilities would comprise storage and transportation facilities,
milk packaging and paper lamination equipment, and bulk milk vending machines
and dispensers.
62.       Three major modes of distribution would be expanded under the pro-
ject; bulk vending systems; sachets; and tetrapacks for specially sterilized
"longlife" milk. Additionally, increased supplies to institutional purchasers
and small-town markets would be packaged in 40-liter cans. Bottled milk,
which in the past was favored by most dairies in the organized sector, is
rapidly being replaced by these other distribution systems. Based on the
experience of recent market development in the major cities of India it is
expected that 50% of milk sales under the project would be handled through
bulk vending units. About 20% of retail sales would occur with milk packed
in plastic sachets, 20% of sales would be in cans sold to institutional pur-
chasers, 10% as sterile milk in longlife packages.
63.       The demand for milk to be supplied by the project is expected to
be strong. The principal factors affecting demand for milk are urban popu-
lation growth (3% per annum) and increases in household income (3% per annum).
Thus, urban demand for milk is assessed to rise at an annual rate in excess
of 5% during the project period. Other factors (e.g. change in income



- 19 -
distribution, the pace of urbanization, change in tastes, food preferences and
habits) are also likely to increase the market demand for milk over time.
64.       The projected urban demand for milk in 1985 exceeds 26 million lpd;
expected sales of milk from the modern sector, following implementation of
this project, would be approximately 9.5 M lpd or 37% of the urban demand.
During the project period, dairy imports would continue to be necessary to
supplement the production of milk powder and butter oil required for recom-
bination in the summer months of minimal milk supplies. Given the supply
constraint, the opportunity for the cooperative dairy movement to strengthen
production and focus supply efforts in the urban markets where demand is
highly concentrated is excellent.
Buffe.r Stock Storage and Milk Distribution
65.        IDC maintains a stock of milk powder and butter in order to provide
(a) a buffer against fluctuations in market demand for these products; and
(b) a price stabilization mechanism for milk powder and butter oil in a mar-
ket in which supplies are largely dependent upon overseas arrivals that have
tended to be very erratic. Present use of buffer stocks approximates 12,000
tons of powder and 4,000 tons of butter oil a year, sufficient to reconstitute
about 700,000 lpd of milk throughout the period of inadequate supply. IDC
stores butter oil and powder mainly in rented accommodation, but some warehouses
have had to be constructed in areas where rental has not been possible. At
least 2,500 tons of additional storage will need to be constructed for project
purposes. Each union would also have local storage facilities equivalent to
10% (700 tons) of its product processing capacity, the costs of which are
included in plant construction estimates.
Research
66.       The Indian dairy industry is in a state of rapid evolution and
developments in milk production, processing and marketing are occurring
with great rapidity. NDDB has supported this development with an excellent
applied research program which would be expanded as part of the project.
A new research division within NDDB would be initiated comprising four main
sections: (a) farm systems; (b) design engineering; (c) food technology; and
(d) support services including market analysis. In addition, 9 man years of
technical assistance in specialized research areas would be provided. It is
expected that this research division would be largely self-supporting as
revenues from patents, licensing arrangements and technical service fees are
expected to grow at a rapid rate.
Project Cost and Financing
67.       The project cost is US$364 million equivalent over 7 years (includ-
ing duties and taxes of about US$36 million) of which about US$117 million
is the foreign exchange equivalent. The proposed credit of US$150 million
would finance about 46% of the total cost net of import duties and taxes and
would cover all foreign exchange costs and about US$33 million of local costs.
The remaining local costs would be met by GOI (US$7 million), by IDC (US$201



- 20 -
million) and by farmers (US$6 million). Of the IDC share of US$201 million,
about US$100 million equivalent is expected to be generated through the sale
locally of skim milk powder and butter oil to be donated by EEC. EEC has
indicated to GOI that it would be prepared to donate about 186,000 tons of
skim milk powder and up to 72,000 tons of butter oil over the next six years
subject to a year by year review of requirements and IDA approval of this
project. However, GOI has given IDA an assurance that it will provide all
funds required for the project irrespective of any possible commodity dona-
tions (see Section 3.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.       US$4 million of IDA funds would be passed on by GOI to NDDB as a
grant to finance training, research and technical assistance related to the
project. The balance of IDA funds (US$146 million) would be channelled to
IDC for relending to dairy cooperative federations. IDC would receive the
funds from GOI on terms requiring repayment over 20 years at 7.5% interest per
annum. Installment repayments would be set to coincide with amortization of
subloans. IDC would relend the IDA funds to federations for 20 years, includ-
ing up to 5 years grace on interest and principal, at 8.5% interest per annum.
Interest accrued during the grace period would be capitalized. The IDC loan
to a federation would cover 70% of the investment costs required. The remain-
ing 30% would be provided as farmers' shareholders equity. The major propor-
tion of this equity would be contributed on behalf of farmers by IDC and/or
government.  IDC contributions would be on a grant basis.  Government contri-
butions, if any, would be mainly in the form of existing dairy facilities and
would be transferred to the project either as grants or equity, depending
on the arrangements worked out between IDC and the State concerned (see below).
69.       The above terms of financing include a subsidy element which is
required to carry out the project successfully. The terms are designed to
promote farmer ownership and control of cooperatives and their unions along
the lines of the Amul model. For Amul-type development to succeed, the state
must: be willing to change its Cooperative Act to ensure that dairy coopera-
tives will be registered under carefully formulated Amul model bylaws; give
autonomy to milk unions and federations to set their own prices for procure-
ment and sale of milk; transfer existing state-owned dairying facilities in
the project area to the cooperative framework; transfer responsibility for
animal health care and husbandry services to the cooperative framework; and,
in general, cooperate in spirit and action with the promotion of Amul dairy
cooperatives. For states to be willing to undertake these sometimes poli-
tically difficult steps, the incentive must be adequate. Hence, the project
provides for the possibility of IDC making available the 30% non-loan portion
of union investment, in part, or fully, as a grant.
70.       The proposed interest rate of 8-1/2% is satisfactory for invest-
ments of this kind. The IDC is a specialized lending institution making a
relatively few number of large loans. The small spread it takes - 1% - is
adequate to cover its administrative overheads. The rate is also consistent
with the rate charged by other centrally funded institutions lending to
cooperatives such as the National Cooperative Development Corporation. With
long-run inflation estimated at no more than 5 to 6% per annum, IDC would be
lending at a positive real rate of interest of 2-1/2 to 3-1/2%. The proposed
rate is lower by 2 to 3 points than that charged by banks for investments in



- 21 -
agriculture in other projects including the three ongoing dairy projects in
India. However, these are loans mainly to individual farmers, and the rates
reflect the higher cost of such lending. Also, as pointed out in paragraph
42 above, the multi-tiered financial arrangements under the three ongoing IDA
dairy projects have proved to be cumbersome and slow. Under the proposed
project, onlending has been streamlined with the removal of one tier in the
channelling hierarchy and, consequently, the cost of lending is further
reduced.
Procurement
71.       Major items of machinery and equipment for the milk distribution
system totalling US$210 million would be bulked and procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local manufac-
turers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the
prevailing customs duty whichever is lower. Minor equipment such as electrical
components and other fixtures and fittings for the plants, milk vending equip-
ment, and materials for research and training (US$35 million) would be procured
on the basis of local competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with NDDB and IDC bid procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.  It would not
be practical to bulk these equipment and supplies because the items are many
and varied, individually of small value, and spread over time and place. As
there is adequate representation of local suppliers and local agents of foreign
suppliers, competition is assured. For the same reasons, equipment, vehicles
and supplies for the DCS and union services (US$34 million) would be purchased
by local competitive bidding. In the case of vehicles, standardization with
local makes is also required to ensure adequate maintenance and spares.
72.        Contracts for civil works for construction of dairy processing
plants, stores and administration buildings (US$46 million) would be individ-
ually small, dispersed in time and place, and would not warrant ICB procedures.
These would be let on the basis of local competitive bidding, advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA. Tech-
nical assistance services (US$4 million) would be engaged in accordance with
IDA guidelines for selection of consultants. Urgent purchases of minor equip-
ment and supplies up to a total value of US$2 million would be procured by
prudent shopping. The balance of project costs (US$35 million) would cover
permanent operating capital and manpower development costs not involving
procurement. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million would be provided
by IDA to initiate project training activities.
Disbursements
73.       Disbursements from the proposed Credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported items
and 100% of local expenditure (ex-factory) for items
procured locally after ICB;
(b)  60% of expenditure for locally manufactured items pro-
cured after local bidding;



- 22 -
(c) 60% of IDC disbursements for DCS and union establishment
costs; civil works; and other processing and distribution
facilities not financed under (a) and (b) above;
(d) 100% of technical assistance services.
Disbursements would be fully documented except that in the case of (c) dis-
bursements would be made against statements of expenditures prepared by IDC.
Documents supporting these disbursements would not be submitted to IDA but
retained by IDC and audited quarterly by IDC's statutory auditors. Such
documents would be made available for inspection by IDA during supervision
mission visits. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOI and IDC in
this regard (see Schedule 1, paragraph 5 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment and Sections 2.05 and 4.02 of draft Project Agreement).
Projects Benefits and Risks
74.       The project would permanently improve the income of some 3.5 million
rural families, about 20 million people. Most project beneficiaries would
be subsistence and small farmers whose average per capita farm income is less
than one half the national average. Under the project, farm incomes from
increased milk sales would quadruple, while increased sales of agricultural
produce are expected to add to farm income. Major benefits would accrue from
the increase in milk production attained by augmenting the productivity of
existing dairy animals and facilitating the marketing of this milk. Because
incremental income from milk sales would be used by farmers for more and time-
ly crop inputs, foodgrain production would also be increased. Additional
important benefits would arise from year-round employment opportunities pro-
vided to landless and smaller farmers amongst India's rural people, while the
organizational arrangements introduced under the project would strengthen the
decision making process at the village level as well as local capabilities for
project planning, design and implementation. Most importantly, the project
would lead to marked improvement in the social and economic environment of
participating villages.
75.       Small tenant farmers are particularly favored by dairy development
as tenancy agreements normally provide for all income from livestock going
to the tenant. Tenants therefore have a particularly strong incentive to
increase livestock production. Project benefits are also weighted in favor
of landless laborers and marginal land owners because of the intensive labor
demand associated with milk production. This feature of the project enables
the landless and small farmers who own cattle to use surplus family labor for
milk production; it also means a rapid expansion in the demand for hired labor
by larger farmers who move into dairy development. Farm employment created
by the project is extremely large, about .75 million man years of work.
76.       The overall impact of the project in year seven includes the incre-
mental production of about 5 million liters per day of milk, leading to an
increase in annual farm income of about Rs 1,990 million (US$230 million) and
the substantial growth of rural employment noted above. Although not included
in the rate of return calculations, the project would also significantly



- 23 -
contribute toward increasing crop production in addition to milk, with con-
sequent additional employment benefits.
77.       The economic rate of return of the project from milk alone would
be about 25%. The typical DCS is expected to show a cash surplus as early
as year one and steadily to increase bonus payments to members. In these
projections, milk sales from the typical union milk plant have been held
constant at about 144,000 liters per day from year 7 as an increase in plant
capacity would then be required. Based on the spread of prices prevailing
between farmgate and urban markets the financial rate of return of each union
is expected to be close to 20%.
78.       The risks involved in this project are not great.  The considerable
experience now accumulated with dairy development in India using the Amul
model demonstrates that projects of this nature work well, as long as there
is adequate staff, and that benefits to participants are high. Demand for
milk exceeds available supplies and markets for project output are assured.
What risks there are relate mostly to administrative delays in establishing,
financing, and operating the various project organizations, thereby delaying
the growth of project benefits. Conservative assumptions have been made in
regard to project phasing, costs, yields and commodity prices. The main imple-
menting institutions, IDC and NDDB, are experienced and staffed with competent
and motivated people. Measures to coordinate, monitor and expedite all phases
of implementation have been discussed with GOI, NDDB, IDC and state governments.
The risks are acceptable in view of the benefits which would accrue to a large
number of landless and small farmers, and to the economy as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Indian Dairy Corporation and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
80.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 26, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -----------------------------------
---------------                                  INDIA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   6RAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0    l1O.0       150.0              130.0       230.0       550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          434.9     547.6    620.4  /a             117.6       36.9        92.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0     167.0      189.0               62.0       123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      247.0      308.0      345.0              411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.2       41.0      37.0                45.9       44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          23.9       19.0      17.0                20.6        13.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a       ..     130.0                  *-      81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.7      47.2       49.5                  ..       55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        2.9       2.8                 3.2        3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0       2.3        2.1                 2.0        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5Lb      3.2       3.1                 3.7/a      4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULAtION l% OF TOTAL)          17.9       19.8      20.6                17.5/b      27.6       56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0      41.6       40.1               44.0        45.6        42.o
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9      55.3       56.7               53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1        3.1       3.2                 2.5        2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.8                           0.9        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1-I/lS     1.1/a      .l.                ,-         1.5        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         71.0   14585,0   3765B.0               259.3      320.0        250.O
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..      16.7                  ,.        2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                        12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         71.0      69.0       69.0                  ..       55.o/a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8 /d   4.4 lb   4.4/c,d                 ,,         7.6        7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 /c      ,,                 ,,          ..       35.o/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       53.1 7E      ..                 .        54.A        62.07i-
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1       4.7 /C      ..                            3.6         3 0tU
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6      13.1                                     11 7         1    t
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED EY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       40.
A OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..          1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5840.0Le~, 4890.0    4220.0           26370.0           .      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310.0  5220.0/d  3680.0 ,e              7630.0C           .    3220.0oL
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2590.0oL  1610.0         .,              1640.       850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0      92.0       89.0                91.0       93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0      53.0       48.0                43.0       45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0/J    16.0       12.6                14.0       22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            44.0         ..         .                  ,,         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                        63.0       65.0               75.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      41.0       3          2                             113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    23.0       30.0       29.0               15.0        49.0        68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0      11.0                12.0       10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      8.0        ..         .,                29.0        6.0 /b    17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                24.0       33.0      36.04               59.0          ,.       64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.6        2.8         ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..         ..         ..                 ..        76.0       73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                 ..       23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..         7.0        B.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0       21.0      25.0               114.0       39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           46.0      114.0     143.0                20.0       23s.0       491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0         2.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Pep. 2
NOTES
Unless otherise noted, date for 1960 reler to any year between 1959  nd 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, end for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1976.
t    Brasil has been selected on an objective country becaue  of its sizs  and comparable problems of regional inequality.
INDIA          1960    /a  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60C    /t  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;
/d Estimated by Netional Saple Survey, in terms of the average nusber of person/weeks of unenployment a. percentage
of total person/weeks in the labor force;    /a  1962i    /f  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;    /j  Including
midwives;    /h  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970    to  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 15 and over;    /b  Esticated by National Sonple
Survey, in term  of the average nomber of persontweeks of unmmploymnt as perctntage of total person/weeks in the total
labor force;    /c  1967-68;    /d  Including midwives.
MOST RiCOT ESTSMATE:    /a  1978 mid-year population and labor forte estimated at 640.4 and 261 millions respectively;    /b  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1977,    /d  Estimated by National Sample
Survey, in terma of the average numbar of person/weeks of unesmploysent s percentage of total person/weeks
in the labor force;    /a  Including midvives;    /f  Population 10 years and over.
INDONESIA      1970    /a  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  Including midwives.
PHILIPPINES   1970    /a  As percentage of meploymnt;    /b  Not including private vocational school..
BRAZIL         1970    /a  Econonically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
R13, Hay 2, 1978
DIFtMMit S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area (thou 1.2;                                                                      Poulation per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - ToCta  *urfce are  comprising land are  end inlnd  eate,                            ma   and fale grduate nurses, "traind" or 'certified" nurses    d
Agric. - Most recent  atimate of .griculturl ara used temporarily or pw-                   auiliary pereonnel with training or experiene.n
nently for crops, pasturse, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                  Population per hospital bed - Population divided by ..b&r of hospital beds
-vail.ble in public and priveta g.neral end  p-cilieed hospital and
GNP oar c..it. (SSU     - GNP per c.pita astinate-    t current market prices,               rehbilitation canenero; .clud.. nursinm  boes and etablisien te for
calculated by sas conversion mthod  s World Bank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                   c- todial and preventiv. care.
1960; 1970 snd 1976 data.                                                               Per canita oupply of caloris pi of reqtuirements) - Computed from ene-gy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita Per day;
Population and vital statistic                                                              available eupplise comprise domestic production, imports less soporte, end
Population (mid-veer million) - As of July first: if not available,  average                changes in stock; net supplies  colude anil feed, seeds, quantities used
of to  od-yer estiates; 1960, 1970  nd 1976 dat.                                           in fond processing sad losses in distribution; requiraste woere estimted
by FAO based on Physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Population density - per squre k. - Mid-year population per square kilometer                 ering eviromsental temperaturs, body wights, age end se  distributions of
(100 heote-s) of total area                                                               population, and allowing 101 for wear at household lvel.
Population d ity - par atuare ke of agric. land - Computed s  bove for                    Per ..pits supply of protein (gram, per day) - Protin content of por capita
agricultural land only.                                                                   net supply *f food per day; nt supply of food ia defined as  bove; require-
mants for all countries establiahed by USDA Economic Reasaroh Ssrvic-
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a minionm allowance of 60 grena of total protsin per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand averase - Annual live birtha per thouand of                    20 grana of animal sod pule  protein, of which 10 gras should be animal
aid-year popultion; ten-y-ar *rith_tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; thea  standards sre lower than thoe of 75 gras of total protein
and five-year   erage  nding in 1975 for mast recant estimate,                             and 23 gras of animal protein as n average for th  corld, propoed by FAO
Crude destb rte per thousand, average - Annual doatha per thouand of mid-year                in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year erithtmtic  verege  ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per capita protin supply from animal and pulse - Protein spply of food
year average ending in 1975 for moat recent aetim ts.                                      derived from animls end pulses in greas per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deatha of infants under one year of age            Death rate O/thou) eas 1-4 - Annual deatha per thou.and in  ge group 1-4
per thousand liva birth.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life axpectan.v at birth (yre) - Average numbr of years of life rsining at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countrier                                                                           Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daugoters a woman will bear               Ad1usted  nrollmnt ratio - primary school - Enrollmnt of a11 ages as per-
In ht norml reproductive period if she experiences prsent age-specific                     centage of pri-mry  chool-age population; includes children aged 6-11 yeare
fertility rates; usually five-yor *veragea  nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjuated for different length  of primary education; for countrise with
for developing countries.                                                                  univeral education, *nroll_nt may ax..ed 100% since soa   pupils are below
Popultion 2rowth rate (.) - total - Compound ennual growth rmet  of mid-year                or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adiuted enrollment ratio - s.condary school - Computed s ebove; secondury
Population orwth rate (11 - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requires at least four years of  pproved primry, instruction;
population; different definitions of urban  rea  may affect comprability of                pryides genral, vctional or tacher trining ine tructio   for pupils
data among countries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondent cours   ar genrally exclded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               erar  of schooling provided (first and second lvels) - Total years of
definitiona of urban  ras my effect comparability of data among countries                  schooling; at secondary level, vocational inetruction may bs partially cr
completely secluded.
Ae atructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                Vocatimal oprollmnt n% of secondary) - Vocational institution  incIude
and retired (65 years and over) me percentages of aid-year population.                     tech-ical, indu trial or other progr_ which operat  independently or a
Age depandency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 nd 65 snd ovr to those                   depsrt._nts of secondary inatituti.
of  ges 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rtc  (U  - Literate adu1te (abla to read and rite) a, pot-
Ecnomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   cenrage of total aduIt ppulation aged 15 years  nd  over.
the labor force in ag  group of 15-64 years.
Ftily planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - Cumulative number of acc-ptors             Rousing
of birth-control d.vices under auspices of cationml faily planning progra                Persons oar room (urban) - Average number of perons per room in occupied
since inception,                                                                           conventional dwellings in urban areas; duellinge -eclude non-perm       t
F Pily planning - wuers     of married women) - Percentages of mrried worn of                structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 married             Occupied dvellinga  itbout piped water  0) - Occupied conventional dwellings
wan in sa*   ge   group.                                                                   in urban and rural ares vithout inside or Outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dw llings.
E.ployment                                                                                  cces  to 'lctricity (      r of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona, including armed                  electricity in living quarcere as percent of total dwellings in urbhn and
forces  nd unemployed but *aclvding houseives, students, etc.; definitions                 rural ar-e.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7,) - Computed as above for rural
Labor force in mariculture (2) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,             dwellings only.
hunting and fiehing) aa percentage of total labor forc.
Unemployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who              Consumption
aro able  nd willing to tke a job, owt of a job on a given day, raained out              Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All typee of recetvers for redic broadceete
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minim,n period not exceeding one                to general public per thousand of population; excludes unLicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                 in countries and in years when registration of redio aets was in effect
of unployed and sourne of data, e.g. , mploymnt office etatietice, *emple                  data for recent yers my not be comparble  ince most countries  bolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance.                                                licneing.
Pooenter care (or thou epo) - Pas..ngr cars comprise motor car  seating
Incom  dietribution - Perenmtage of private income (both in caah and kind)                   les th n sight pe ons          da  bul nce, hearses ed  ilitary
received by richest 51, richest 201, pooreet 207, nd poorest 401 of house-                 vhicls.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, commercial,
public and private electricity In kilowat hour per capita, gen..relly
Distribution of land onership - PrcntageS  of lend owned by wealthiest 107                   based on productin data, without allowance for loses In grids but  llow-
and poor-t 101 of lend onrs.                                                               ing for imports and export of electricity.
Neprint (ks/yr oar cap) - Per capita annual conaumption in kilogras
Health and Nutrition                                                                         estimated from  domeatic production plus not imports of neweprirt.
Population per physici-n - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified fro a medical school at university levl.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMET DATA
GNP PER cAPITA IN 1976 4 uSt 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN  _976/                                                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. oonstant prioee) 9/
uSS Bl. .                                                       1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70       1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04       100.0                                                    3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestic Investment         16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18        21.1
Current Account Balance           1.56         1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95         1.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Pori                  V.A. Per Worker
US  Bln.             %                  M.                                  % of Naional Average
Agriculture                      30.2                43                 179.0       69                169           63
Industry                         16.7                24                  33.9       13                494          193
Services                         23.4                33                  48.0       18                488          133
Total/average                    70.3               100                 261        100                277          100
GOVERNBMET FINANCX
General Government                                                  Central Goverment
TN-. Bin                 of CUP       N7a. Bin                                             of GDP
1976        77      197677  7     196/'A 1976 77                                  1976%77    1974 75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46          19.1            17.9                                 83.78          10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures                140.18         18.2            16.2                                 84.25          10.9            9.6
Current Surplus/Defioit              7.28           0.9             1.7                                - 0.47            -             0.8
Capital Expenditures  e/            59.05           7.6             7.1                                 40.39           5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21           1.5             1.7                                 11.21           1.5            1.7
MONEY, CREDIT A   PRICES          1970/71      1e2171       1975/74     1974/75      1975f76      1976/77      September 1976      September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               105.7       142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0        262.6            238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9          82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1        117.3            112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        56.7        76.o         90.1        109.5       127.5        161.0            144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             January 1977         January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3          27.3         26.4        25.5         27.6         31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0        116.2       139.7        174.9        173.0       176.6            178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1          2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6          19.6         12.6        10.4          6.3          7.5             4.7 4!            15.84!
Bank Credit to Private Sector        17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4         26.3            24.9 S/            11.9.S
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
4/ Quick Estimates.
S/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
fN Net bank credit to Government Sector.
4/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BaaCz or PDASS                         1974/           9            f              197/7                             WCHhEDISZ i           (zlE   1974/7S _ 1976/77)
Exports of Goode                         4,174         4,665         5,760          6,400                            EmgineexdDg Goods           515           11
Imports of Goode                        -5,665        -6,O84        -5,950         -6,600                            sugr                        379            8
Trade Belnos                            -1 ,491       _l,419        -  190         -  200                            Tea                         296            6
MFs  (not)                                 21t           310           465            500                            Jute Manufacturee           294            6
Leather and Leather
Roeore Oa                               -1,278        -1,109           215            300                                     Products          268             5
Clothing                   257            5
Interest Pauents (net)                  -  198       -  216         -  135         -  130                            Iron Ore                   258             5
other Factor Payments (net)                 -             -             -              -                             Cottom Textles              223            5
Net Trefr    /                             257           470           73D          1,000                            Othrs                      296            49
Total                     4866          100
Balano  on Current Aceount              -1,217       -  855            8I0          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                           EL     IZBT. thROB  11.
US$ Billio
Disbourements                        1,761        2,341         1,953           1,840
Amortizstion                          -515         -531          -568          - 630                             Outatanding and Disbursed                13.6
Transactions with IMF                      522           242         -336          .  330                            Undisdbursed                              832
All Other Items                           -589         -403          -292              23                                        , 
Inorease in Reservs (-)                     38          -794       -1,575          -2,073                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77          14.4   percent t/   -
Gross Reserve  (end year)                1,378         2,172        3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year) 2f                 758         1,365        3,276           5,670                            IRRD/ID  LMENING, December 31, 1977  (USS Mn.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                                              IBRD1       IDA
Imports                                  1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                               Outstanding and Disbursed         489.0     3,560.5
of whih: Petroleum                    1,451        1,417         1,580        1,800                               uttanding, inclding              6749       1,2570
Undinbured                1,163i9      4,u17d5
Erporte                                     26            43           37          n.a.
of which, Petroleum                      17           22            21         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to mid-December 1971    t   US$1 .00 = Rs 7.5                                                                  After end June 1972    ,   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = U'50.133333                                                           Spot Rate January 31, 1972
Mid-Deeember 1971 to           I   U81.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                          approx. USS1.00 = Res 8.063
end June 1972                    Re 1.00 = US10.137376                                                                       approx. Re 1.00 = US0S0124
h/  Estimated.
j/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are intereat on foreign loans and
charges paid to IAF, and major receipt is interest seaned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, whitb is Included
within official aid disbursements.
S/ xcoludes net use of DIP credit.
/ Amortizatiun and interest payments on foreign 1cans as a percentage of marchandiae exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
TI I STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31.   1q78)
US$ Millinr-
Loan or.tNtoCacltin
Credit No.          Year     Borrower                     Purpose                                (Net of Cance lation)
Bank      IDP      Undisburaed
40 Loans/                                                                                12109.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                           2,604.6
267-IN              1971      India         Wheat Storage                                    --        5.0        3.4
294-IN              1972      India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                       --       14.0        9.1
312-IN             1972       India         Population                    ~-                          21.2        6.1
342-IN              1972      India         Education                                                 12.0        9.3
356-IN              1972      India         IDBI                                             __       25.0       10.5
377-IN              1973      India         Power Transmission III                           --       85.0        3.1
378-IN             1973       India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                      --        8.0        6.9
902-IN              1973      ICICI         Industry DFC X                                  67.5       --         5.8
390-IN              1973      India         Bombay Water Supply                              --       55.0       25.3
403-IN              1973      India         Telecommunications V                             --       80.0        3.4
427-IN              1973      India         Calcutta Urban Development                       --       35.0       10.1
440-IN              1973      India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                        --       32.0       14.9
456-IN              1974      India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                  --       13.0        9.9
481-IN              1974      India         Trombay IV                                       --       50.0       11.6
1011-IN              1974      India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0       --        34.8
482-IN              1974      India         Karnataka Dairy                                  --       30.0       26.0
502-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                              --       83.0       52.5
520-IN              1974      India         Sindri Fertilizer                                --       91.0       18.2
521-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Dairy                                  2- 27.7             25.8
522-IN              1974      India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                             --       16.4       15.3
526-IN              1975      India         Drought Prone Areas                              --       35.0       24.3
1079-IN              1975      IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0       --        66.2
1097-IN              1975      ICICI         Industry DFC XI                                100.0       --        27.4
532-IN              1975      India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                      --       45.0       22.2
541-IN              1975      India         West Bengal Agricultural Development             --       34.0       25.4
562-IN              1975      India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --       24.0       18.4
572-IN              1975      India         Rural Electrification                            --       5710       46.0
582-IN              1975      India         Railways XIII                                    --      110.0       16.7
585-IN              1975      India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                       --       40.0       36.4
598-IN              1975      India         Fertilizer Industry                              --      105.0       90.8
604-IN              1976      India         Power Transmission IV                            --      150.0      149.6
609-IN              1976      India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                     --        4.0        3.8
610-IN              1976      India         Integrated Cotton Development                    --       18.0       17.7
616-IN              1976      India         Industrial Imports XI                             --     200.0        1.7
1251-IN(TW)          1976      India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0       --       142.8
1260-IN              1976      India         IDBI II                                         40.0       --        37.0
1273-IN              1976      India         National Seed                                   25.0       --        25.0
1313-IN              1976      India         Telecommunications VI                           80.0       --        36.1
1335-IN              1976       BMRDA        Bombay Urban Transport                          25.0       --        21.2
680-IN              1977      India         Kerala Agricultural Development                  --       30.0       30.0
682-IN              1977      India         Orissa Agricultural Development                  --       20.0       20.0
685-IN              1977      India         Singrauli Thermal Power                          --      150.0      137.0
687-IN              1977      India         Madras Urban Development                         --       24.0       23.5
695-IM              1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                                --        4.0        4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                               14.0       --        14.0
690-IN              1977      India         Wvest Bengal Agricultural Development            --       12.0       12.0
712-IN              1977      India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development          --       10.0       10.0
715-IN              1977      India         Second ARDC Credit                               --      200.0      175.9
720-IN              1977      India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                        --       23.0       23.0
728-IN              1977      India         Assam Agricultural Development                   --        8.0        8.0
1473-IN              1977       India        Bombay High Offshore Development                150.0      --       104.5
736-IN              1977      India         Maharashtra Irrigation                           --       70.0       70.0
737-IN              1977      India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                 --       13.0       13.0
740-IN              1977      India         Orissa Irrigation                                --       58.0       58.0
1475-IN              1977       ICICI        Industry DFC XII                                 80.0      --        79.0
* 747-IN              1978       India        Second Foodgrain Storage                          --     107.0      107.0
* 756-IN              1978       India        Second Calcutta Urban Development                 --      87.0       87.0
* 761-IN              1978       India        Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research           --       8.0        8.0
*1511-IN              1978       India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                        25.0       --        25.0
Total                                                                 2,013.1  4,933.9
of which has been repaid                                             854.4      35.5
Total now outstanding
Amount Sold                              133.2                       1,158.7  4,898.4
of which has been repaid               111.5                          21.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,137.0  4,898.4
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                        593.8  1,299.0
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                            ADril 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                 Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                                Loan      Equity   Total
1959       Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959       Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -         0.9
1960       Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3        1.0
1964       Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8       1.0       12.8
1964       Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0       0.3        1.3
1967       Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0       0.1        1.1
1967       Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8       18.9
1976       Escorts Limited                            6.6        -         6.6
TOTAL                             49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                                6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                            14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                          6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                          22.9       6.5       29.4
Undisbursed                        5.3        -         5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Gener-lly, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,893
million as of March 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
73% and 88% of total loan amounts respectively as of March 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$15.9 million project, co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses envisaged
under the project (as revised) were completed and became operational in 1975.
The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after
delays due to cement shortages and is expected to be completed by December
1978. The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain
Storage Study was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating
the proposal for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in
February/March 1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. The project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice processing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377 was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date to September 30, 1978
(originally September 30, 1977). However an amount of US$84 million had been
disbursed by the end of March 1978 and the balance of US$1 million should
be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disbursements under
Part A of Credit 604 (US$120 million) have been slow with only US$0.4 mil-
lion disbursed at March 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50
million had been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate.
This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million under Part B to
meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; of this
amount some US$26 million has been committed leaving an amount of US$4 million
for load despatch equipment which should be committed by June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date-
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project was last reviewed
appraisals for 36 of the 39 project market yard plans had been completed by
participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in
progress at 33 markets. In an attempt to accelerate project progress, more
liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries
(MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is expected to be
completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve its major
objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and improving
farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar.  Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of
water treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August
1977) has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to
proceed, so that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled
for 1980 two years later than originally forecasted. Financial performance
of the project entity is satisfactory and all covenants are being met.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:  April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
compl Sion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. -o. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerabl increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress.- Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory. An April 1978 mission which supervised Cr. 720
Periyar Yaigai found that construction of the project commenced in March 1978.
The Public Wo.- Department (PWD) has set up a strong construction organization
headed by a Special Chief Engineer in order to complete the project on schedule.
Monitoring of flows in irrigation canals will start in June 1978. A system
operation plan is under preparation and GOTN has appointed a Committee to
study water and water-related charges in Tamil Nadu.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expected to improve considerably during the next twelve
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, particularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 16, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States.  The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date:  June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time,
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now twelve States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time of



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the cumulative
value of contracts entered into or about to be entered into at February 28,
1978 was US$50.32 million leaving an outstanding uncommitted bal;..7e of
US$6.68 million. The full amount of the Credit is expected to be committed
by mid 1978 and it should be fully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project. Dis-
bursements as of March 31, 1978 were 85% of the total credit amount.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. (Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit.) A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project.
1-1/2 years
(b) The agency which prepared the project.
National Dairy Development Board
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank and date
of first mission to consider the project.
August 1977/November 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
November 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
May 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
September 1978
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) IDC to review its work program annually with IDA
(para 56);
(b) Subproject appraisals to be based on criteria agreed
with IDA (para 58);
(c) First five subprojects appraised by IDC to be forwarded
for IDA approval prior to IDC approval (para 59);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) GOI to provide project funds irrespective of possible
commodity donations from EEC (para 67).
(e) IDC would follow suitable accounting and audit pro-
cedures in respect of disbursements against statements
of expenditure (para 73);






~~~~'  ".7'  Ce                                                                              *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 23433
I N D IA
AFGHANISTAN                                                          N 9~'9   \0   ._ >               NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
.N> *1  >rsZsuPresent Dairy Development Areas and  Major Milk Markets
,Ae//AJ1,1f  -d A 4A5H,1/R                                              DECEMBER 1977
J 1  9  1  1 Operst on F ood J
World Bs,k Projects (Cr 482, 521 522-lN)
Q ^ ~~ ~ ............ _ 7 | |                                         Dromght Prone Area Progrcm  (Cr 526- IN)
yj5x,!  v  Ff H,14ACL<V4 e t>h                             o0      Mo or Cites
-p.,'-,,                          .                                        ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 C,t es voth Ole, 500,000 Pop., ,o,,o (See TdbIe)
PAK ISTAN                                                                                               - 3   -  wt  C     ole More ThOe, 200;000 .od Le Thar 500,000 PoMlorice
p                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ dent 'led Log O,sto,,ce Move,ets of M,Ik .nd M,i Prcd,cts
- n'                                   .r              '<R                                              -   -    erernotionol Bo ddoes                                    Sn-
/ '1                    ,           --  Stte Bos,,dou es
:' R R> fS,a,                         ;S                              X                                    f  f~~~~~-' 
*i9       E1DOELHI               54                                                               *.        4         r
(^\t           A,dAX \                      C-M                                             zeNEPAL                    i      . B               /HUTAN
E~   ~ ~ . ],  i-IA  7J                               4{                                                                  .~             -A    I-A ,'
~~~~~~2                                K~ -                                                             .A M53$'ILAA    07VI 
F       :                 >\                   W                       0                                           |                  v  
;  /  t  Gt bsr46/7 f We <f>ts rS t~~< k,C                                                                           
'   0  t                    \+   7             {    ~~~~4                                                                     ' &>cS7
.-  .1 .                                                                    " SRI L   KA                       a             tBANGLADESH
014
136                   PCS
C-1                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~BURMA
-  6
A r a bia n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~RSA                                               
?AZA                                             Igo  '10   ST   4T           6~0 - tnONIT
SR -LANKA3r
7e;                                                      \,,    _,  y                      ad42 3      t     Beo   ga-
T0?



