Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FiLE   CDPX
Report No. 1964-IN
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 26, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT 1/
US$1                =     Rs 8.60
Rs 1                      US$0.116
Rs 1 million (M)          US$116,279
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram                            2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton               0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                           1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                      0.62 yards
1 hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                           0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AI      -    Artificial Insemination
AMUL    -    Anand Milk Union Limited
ARDC    -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
cB      -    Commercial Banks
DCS     -    Dairy Cooperative Societies
GOI     -    Government of India
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IDC     -    Indian Dairy Corporation
NCDC    -    National Cooperative Dairy Corporation
NDDB    -    National Dairy Development Board
NDRI    -    National Dairy Research Institute
ROR     -    Rate of Return
SCB     -    State Cooperative Bank
SLDB    -    State Land Development Bank
Until Septmber 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in thiis report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.6, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal, December 1977.



FOR OXIClAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   THE SECTOR .........................................                      1
Project Background ............................                    1
Agriculture and Livestock in the National
Economy  ..................................                 2
The Dairy Industry in Transition ....             ..........       4
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)              .......       7
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)  ....            ............      8
Credit Services  ...............................                  9
Ongoing IDA-Supported Dairy Projects  ....           ......      10
II.    THE PROJECT ........................................                    11
Project Definition and Scope ....              ..............    11
Main Features .................................                  12
DCS Establishment  .............................                 12
Union Services ................................                  13
Processing Facilities  .........................                 14
Distribution and Marketing ....................                  15
Paper Lamination ..............................                  15
Buffer Stock Storage and Transport ....             ........     16
Training and Research  .........................                 16
Cost Estimates ................................                  17
Project Financing .............................                  18
Procurement .........  .                                         20
Disbursements ..................................                 21
Environmental Impact  ..........................                 21
III.    ORGANIZATION AND LENDING ARRANGEMENTS  ....              ..........     21
General .......................................                  21
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)  .......                 22
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)  ....            ............     23
Operational Procedures ........................                  23
Lending Terms .................................                  24
Accounts and Audit  ............................                 26
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ....             .........     26
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to India in November/
December 1977, comprising Messrs. P. Brumby, P. Dax, Mrs. K.J. Hong, Messrs.
G. Slade, S. Thillairajah, T. Turtiainen, and C. Wolffelt and on information
furnished by the National Dairy Development Board and Indian Dairy Corporation.
This document ha a  strIct  dtribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwIe be discosd wthout World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents - Cont'd
Page No.
IV. PRODUCTION AND YIELDS.27
V.   MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.                     29
Milk Marketing.29
Market  Prospects   ..............................    30
Milk  Prices   ...................................    32
Financial Returns .............................       33
Cost  Recovery   .................................    34
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................      34
General .......................                       34
Supporting Investments .......................        35
Economic Rate of Return .....     ..................  36
Project Risks ............                            37
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....   .........    38
Schedule A - Profor.ma Agreement Between IDC
and State Government
Schedule B - Criteria for Subproject Appraisal
ANNEXES
1.  Project Tables
2.  Bylaws - DCS
- Unions
- Federations
3.  Disbursement Schedule
4.   Subproject Outline
5.  Implementation Schedule
6.  Progress Reporting
7.  Support Materials for Economic and Financial Analysis
8.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
Dairy Development Areas and Milk Movement



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
Project Background
1.01      Arising from the achievements of the National Dairy Development
Board (NDDB) in promoting rural milk production, an IDA credit for US$30 M
was extended to the Government of India (GOI) for dairy development in
Karnataka (Cr. 482-IN) in June 1974. This was followed in December 1974
by two further credits of US$27.7 M and US$16.4 M for dairy development in
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh respectively (Cr. 521-IN and Cr. 522-IN). GOI
has now requested an IDA sector credit of US$150 M to finance a National Dairy
Project estimated to cost US$364 M. This project would be the fourth supported
by the World Bank Group for dairy development in India; it would also be the
first sector credit to assist dairy development on a national scale.
1.02      The national dairy development program of India is known as
"Operation Flood"; it is a program conceived and managed by IDC and NDDB and
aimed at creating a modern dairy industry capable of meeting India's rapidly
increasing need for milk and milk products. The program has the objective of
increasing national milk production sufficiently to enable per capita milk
consumption to rise from an estimated present 107 gms daily to 144 gms daily
by 1985 when the program will incorporate markets in 148 cities each with
populations over 100,000, and absorb supplies of milk produced by cows and
buffaloes owned by about 10 M rural families. Operation Flood I started on
July 1, 1970, and will be completed by June 30, 1978; Operation Flood II will
build on the achievements of the first phase.
1.03      Operation Flood I is oriented to supplying milk to India's four
metropolitan centers--Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras--with milk produced
in 17 production zones located in 10 states. About one million producing
families are members of almost 5,000 DCS created under Operation Flood I.
These DCS are now producing over 1.8 million liters per day (lpd), compared
with an estimated 0.5 million lpd from their land area before Operation Flood I
started. Milk processing capacity in the producing areas is now about 3 mil-
lion lpd as compared with 0.65 million lpd prior to the start of the program.
In the four cities, milk handling capacity has increased from about one mil-
lion lpd to 2.9 million lpd, and modern dairies in these four cities are now
rapidly increasing their share of the markets. By the end of FY77 they were
providing about 73% of the demand for milk in Bombay, 55% in Madras, 44% in
Delhi and 22% in Calcutta. Operation Flood I has been particularly success-
ful in increasing the incomes of rural milk producers (5.12). It has faced
difficulties and delays, however, in the organization of adequate distribution
facilities for milk and milk products in the four cities and in the establish-
ment of city processing and handling facilities. Such delays have, however,
rarely been a constraint on the volume of milk procured from rural producers.



- 2 -
The marketing target under Operation Flood I is 2.75 million lpd in the four
cities; during FY77 the volume of milk actually marketed was 1.4 M lpd (5.10).
This shortfall occurred mainly because responsibility for the organization of
rural milk prod-1etfon and dairy cooperatives was left to local authorities
which did not always provide sufficient resources to meet agreed production
targets and the full utilization of newly constructed processing facilities.
1.04      Operation Flood II is a further important step in implementing
India's national development dairy program. As planned, it will cover 155
milk producing districts selected as having good potential for mixed farming
and dairy production. Most of the development under Operation Flood II in-
volves an expansion of activities in the 17 producing areas established under
Operation Flood I as well as in those areas being developed under the three
IDA-financed projects. The organization of Operation Flood II is designed
to overcome the implementation difficulties experienced in Operation Flood I.
1.05      The National Dairy Project appraised in this report would be the
first phase of Operation Flood II. Subject to satisfactory progress of this
initial phase of the overall Operation Flood II program, it is anticipated
that GOI will request IDA to finance subsequent phases of the National Dairy
Program. The design of the project now submitted to IDA is based on the
experience obtained from ongoing dairy projects in India, the results of
which show particular benefits favoring the landless, small and marginal
farmers who are the major producers of rural milk supplies.
1.06      This report is based on the Operation Flood II proposal, and on
the findings of an IDA mission comprising Messrs. P. Brumby, P. Dax,
Mrs. K. J. Hong, Messrs. G. Slade, S. Thillairajah, T. Turtiainen and
C. Wolffelt which visited India in November-December 1977.
Agriculture and Livestock in the National Economy
1.07      Twenty percent of India's 620 M people are city and town dwellers
and the urban population is increasing at 3.1% annually compared to 2.2% for
the rural population. Agriculture provides 71% of direct labor employment,
45% of net domestic product and 37% of export earnings. Sugar and tea are
major export crops and provide about 50% of the total agricultural exports
valued at about US$1,700 M. Foodgrains, mainly wheat, are usually the main
agricultural imports. Livestock account for 15% by value of agricultural
production. Exports of livestock products, mainly semi-finished hides and
skins, and wool, provide about $150 M while livestock imports, mainly milk
powder and butter oil - mostly derived from food aid sources - are worth
US$30 M annually.
1.08      Some 20% of the working population in rural areas have non-
agricultural occupations, another 30% are landless agricultural laborers
who frequently own milking animals, and the residual 50% occupy land holdings
wholly or partly their own. Farm holdings number about 50 M and cover 350 M
1/   Consumption in rural areas is about 30% of procurement.



- 3 -
acres of crop land distributed amongst 576,000 villages.  About 20% of crop
land is double cropped each year. Average farm size approximates 6 to 7 acres.
but about 50% of farmers have less than 2.5 acres (9% of all crop land) and 15%
more than 10 acres (61% of all crop land).
1.09      Rice, wheat, coarse grains, pulses and oilseeds occupy most arable
land. Bullocks supply most of the energy required for land cultivation. The
pattern of livestock kept throughout India is dominated by the need for draft
power. All farmers who can afford to do so keep a pair of bullocks and, if
possible, a cow to breed replacement bullocks. There are some 80 M draft males
in use, 90% of which are cattle bred from 54 M cattle cows which also produce
small quantities of milk - about 500 liters per cow each lactation. Buffalo
males find favor for draft purposes only in those few paddy areas where rough-
age is plentiful. Additionally, most villages keep some buffalo cows mainly
for milk production, each cow yielding about 800 liters per lactation. In
total there are almost 30 M buffalo cows of breeding age accounting for some
60% of the national milk production, the other 40% being mainly cattle milk.
Total milk production at 23 M tons p.a. is sufficient to provide 107 grams of
milk per capita per day, about 2/3 of the nutritional requirement 1/ of the
largely vegetarian population.
1.10      Because most of India is subject to a highly seasonal pattern of
rainfall, resulting in large variations in seasonal feed supplies, milk sup-
plies in most areas show significant seasonal variations. Peak supplies
commonly occur in December when they reach a volume normally two to three
times that available in April to August, the months of minimal supply. Sea-
sonal peaks in supply are commonly converted to milk products, typically ghee
(butter oil), curd and condensed milk, by village entrepreneurs.
1.11      Dairy animals have the unique capacity to convert large quantities
of otherwise nonutilizable crop by-products to high value foods and there is,
in most situations, a complementarity between milk and foodgrain production.
This complementarity appears likely to give way to competition as stock numbers
and milk production increase, since crop residues are then no longer suffi-
cient to supply total livestock requirements. Contrary to simple expectation,
however, experience in the rural villages of India indicates that increased
dairy production is associated with increased foodgrain production. The expla-
nation of this association arises largely from the increased supply of more
manure for fertilizing crops produced by more and better fed cows. Addition-
ally, the increased daily cash income that milk production provides makes pos-
sible the increased use of more crop inputs, particularly fertilizer, better
seeds and more irrigation. To explore the interlinkages of the association
between milk and crop production, an analysis of a farm model representing a
typical small farm of central India was taken. The objective was to assess
the impact of farm size, credit availability, and the relative prices of milk
and farm crops on the output of milk and crop production in a typical village
farming situation. A comparison of farms on which dairying was undertaken,
with those on which it was excluded, showed a very large difference in net
farm income favoring the mixed dairying and crop farms, and particularly so
1/   Indian Medical Research Institute, 1976.



-4-
for smaller farms. At current milk to crop price ratios the optimal number of
dairy cattle per acre of arable land is about 0.5, and the optimal fodder crop
area is about 0.3 acres per cow. At a milk to crop price rat.io 75% of the
current ratio, the-optimal number of dairy cattle was only marginally less.
The competitive influence of milk production on crop yields proved to be
negligible as the area in use for foodgrain production was only marginally
greater in situations where milk production was not undertaken, while the
intensity of use of crop inputs, and thus crop yields, was increased in pro-
portion to the level of milk production. The results also indicated that at
current and likely prices, farmers are best advised to grow rather than
purchase all livestock feed requirements.
1.12      Dairy development is recognized by GOI as being a key mechanism for
effecting economic and social improvement in rural areas. Experience obtained
from villages in which well-established dairy cooperatives are operating
demonstrates profound social and economic consequences, as cooperative profits
are used to finance communal resources of education, water supplies, health
services and access roads. Dairy development in India is further justified by
the ease with which the indigenous cattle of India can be upgraded in milk
yield potential by cross-breeding with European-type dairy stock, by the
observation that the potential for dairy development in many Indian villages is
very large, and by the development of local systems of cooperative milk produc-
tion, processing and marketing which are readily replicable in most areas of
the country.
The Dairy Industry in Transition
1.13      Traditional dairy technology has required that most milk and milk
products be consumed close to the point of production; to provide major
cities with milk, cows have been brought to the larger urban centers and
stabled there. The resulting costs of feed transportation, and the pollution
problems caused by the disposal of cow manure, are formidable and have gener-
ated many local ordinances not always effectively banning city cow keeping.
The economic loss arising from wasted manure and from the continual drain of
better milk cows from breeding areas is also a cause of concern. In con-
trast, the technology of the modern dairy industry permits milk production in
rural areas by enabling the long-distance transport of milk and the long-term
storage of milk products. Urban centers are thereby able to rid themselves of
cattle and buffalo stables.
1.14      In the first half of this century dairying in India was largely un-
organized. Two important exceptions were the military farms largely stocked
with western breeds to supply milk to army stations, and plantation areas in-
to which purebred bulls were imported and randomly crossbred with local cows.
Apart from the pockets of improved animals thus created, dairying was dominated
by the makers of traditional milk products (mainly ghee and khoa) and by city
milk vendors. In the years of World War II some private dairy companies were
established to make butter and cheese for the army. One such company became
the prime supplier to the country's first urban milk supply scheme by shipping
milk in cans, by rail, from Kaira District in Gujarat to Bombay, some 425 km
distant. After a checkered history, the private milk market monopoly gained



-5-.
by the company in Bombay was broken in the early 1950s by the formation of a
cooperative of the milk producers of Kaira District, subsequently to become
known at the "Anand Milk Union Ltd." or "Amul".
1.15      By mid-1960s a number of milk producer cooperatives, based on the
Amul pattern, had been started and the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
established to assist in initiating new milk producer cooperatives in some
of the major milksheds of the country (1.22). Throughout the next decade the
Amul pattern of dairy development evolved further and proved successful under
widely varying ecological and cultural conditions in India. There are at
present 28 major cooperative dairy unions operating under NDDB direction
and new patterns of milk movement are evolving rapidly. These cooperative
milk producers own about 800,000 improved cows and buffalo and supply some
2.8 M liters of milk per day to organized milk markets. Most of these 5,000
village dairy cooperatives now operating have been established by NDDB and
the Indian Dairy Corporation (1.26) under a program, supported by commodity
aid from the World Food Program, known as Operation Flood I. About 1,500
village dairy cooperatives have also been established to date under existing
IDA dairy credits (1.34). These cooperatives have about 1 million member
families, some 30% of whom are landless agricultural laborers who supplement
their wage earnings by keeping one or two cows in their village area. NDDB
estimates that these one million families are now earning 50% to 100% more
cash than they did before the cooperatives started. The program has also
greatly expanded milk processing facilities. Field observations suggest that
crop yields in these dairy development areas have also been increased by some
20% as farmers usually spend about half of their readily available cash income
from increased milk sales on crop inputs, particularly fertilizer, while the
availability of cattle manure for fertilizing crops is also enhanced by the
dairy program. An expansion of milk processing capacity of 3 M lpd has been
brought about under Operation Flood I.   Because plant construction was under-
taken by NDDB, and the implementation of field services to procure milk and
organize Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS) was left to state governments,
coordination of the two activities has not always been adequate.
1.16      The basic organizational structure of the NDDB-sponsored village
dairy cooperatives is based on the Amul model, the essential elements of which
-nvolve the formation of a DCS of milk producers at the village level, the
selection of a board of rianagement which sets the policies of the DCS within
the framework of a general set of bylaws applicable to all Amul-type dairy
cooperatives, and the appointment of a local man as a paid cooperative sec-
retary. Each morning and evening the DCS buys milk from all producers in the
village who wish to sell it and makes payment to each producer (usually within
12 hours) based on the fat content of the milk. The DCS also sell compounded
cattle feed to their members, and provides artificial insemination (AI) and
zLirst-aid services to cattle. All milk producers in the village are eligible
to be members.
1_17      A further key element in the Amul model is that DCS within a 50-
75 km radius (usually one district) are members of a collectively owned milk
union. Milk from the village DCS is brought to the dairy factory of each



- 6 -
union and pasteurized; some is then forwarded in insulated tankers to the
major cities to be consumed as liquid milk, while the balance is processed
into milk products. Each milk union, which typically processes and markets
100,000 to 300,000 liters of milk daily, has a Board of Directors elected by
the producer-members. This Board employs a professional manager who is the
union's chief executive. The union also provides to members the technical
inputs needed to sustain and increase milk production. Thus, the unions
organize mobile veterinary clinics, Al centers and supplies of balanced
cattlefeed which are marketed to the producers through their own DCS.
1.18      Recently, existing milk unions have been joining with others to
form federations also registered under the Cooperatives Act. The member-
unions benefit from shared processing and marketing facilities, financing,
and investment programs. Thus, the Amul model has evolved a "three-tier"
structure of village dairy cooperatives, unions of village dairy cooperatives,
and federations of milk unions. A prominent example of this structure is the
development of the Gujarat Milk Marketing Federation.
1.19      The margin required for the financial viability of modern milk
processing and marketing systems in India is about two thirds of that usually
obtained by traditional milk vendors. Milk sold in liquid form from bulk
vending units incurs the least processing and marketing charges, about Rs 0.30
per liter, thus cooperative dairies normally pay the rural producer 10-15%
more than traditional traders and are able to sell quality graded milk at
highly competitive market prices. The competitive status of city milk pro-
ducers and traditional milk vendors is thus being steadily eroded by the
cheaper production costs rural milk producers incur, and by the economies
of scale and better product utilization offered by modern dairy technology.
The consequence is a better and cheaper product for the consumer and a more
remunerative activity for the many small village farmers and landless
laborers who keep cows.
1.20      Milk provides about two thirds of all animal protein consumed in
India and family expenditure on milk and milk products tends to increase pro-
portionately more than income. Daily per capita consumption in the four major
cities 1/ of India is estimated at 226 grams, about twice the national average
consumption, and urban demand is estimated to be expanding by 5% each year.
Total sales of milk in urban areas presently approximate 15 M lpd.  Of this
amount about 2.8 M lpd is now provided by the cooperative and municipal
dairies, an increase of about 1.8 M lpd in the last six years; the balance
is supplied by traditional milk vendors.  In most markets the shortage of milk
from the cooperative sector limits sales, and some 25% of the 2.8 M lpd of
dairy milk is provided from milk recombined from imported skim milk powder
and butter oil. To counter the declines expected in traditional supplies from
city kept cows, it is expected that, by 1985, the organized sector will need
to provide almost 40% of total marketed milk rather than the present 18%.
1.21      The key institutions in India concerned with dairy development are
the National Dairy Development Board and the Indian Dairy Corporation. Other
1/   Delhi, Madras, Calcutta, Bombay.



institutions which have an important role are the National Dairy Research
Institute (NDRI), the agricultural universities, and the state departments
of dairy husbandry.
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
1.22      NDDB, a statutory body set up by GOI in 1965 with headquarters at
Anand in Gujarat, provides technical, engineering, advisory, training, re-
search and support services in milk production, procurement, processing and
marketing for the development of India's dairy industry. NDDB is the tech-
nical arm of the dairy development institutions established by GOI. The
financial arm of this complex is the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC), formed
in 1970 as the agency responsible for providing finance for dairy develop-
ment. In conjunction with IDC, NDDB has directed its attention to the task
of extending cooperative dairy development projects based on the Amul pattern
in as many Indian states as feasible. NDDB would be the key technical agency
responsible for the project appraised in this report.
1.23      NDDB has a board of 10 directors, four regional advisory panels
and national consultation groups in dairy machinery and milk marketing.
The secretary of the board is also the chief executive. NDDB has four major
functional divisions: Technical and Manpower Development, Planning, Engi-
neering, and Farmers' Organization and Animal Husbandry. Additionally, there
are four service divisions for administration, accounts, audit and project
monitoring. The total staff is 515, the majority of whom are highly quali-
fied and experienced engineers, livestock specialists and dairy technologists.
NDDB's dairy development activities require interdisciplinary staffing and
frequent exchange of specialized professional personnel between its four
functional divisions.  NDDB is equipped to provide "Spearhead Teams" to
establish milk producers' cooperative societies in the rural areas in which
dairy development is being organized. The teams are specially trained in
establishment of village dairy cooperatives on the Amul pattern.
1.24      Over the years, NDDB has built up sufficient expertise to offer
clients a specialized procurement service. NDDB has the staff and facilities
to draw up technical specifications for civil works, equipment and supplies;
prepare tender documents suitable for competitive bidding, global and local;
evaluate bids; place orders; and certify delivery. Such specialization
facilitates bulking of procurement by NDDB for its clients. Since June
1976, NDDB has functioned as procurement consultants to the three State
Dairy Corporations under the ongoing IDA projects. IDA's experience with
NDDB in connection with these projects confirms the technical competence of
this institution.
1.25      As a national statutory body, NDDB receives substantial grants
from GOI. NDDB receives also contributions from international and local
institutions. Such grants and contributions received during FY76/77
amounted to about Rs 7.0 M (US$0.8 M). Additionally, in the years 1975/76
and 1976/77, NDDB earned an average income of about Rs 7.4 M. The main source
of such income is the fees charged to NDDB's clients for technical, advisory,
training and other services rendered.



-8-
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)
1.26      IDC is the other national institution which carries major respon-
sibility and deserves much credit for India's cooperative dairy development.
IDC would be the main financing channel for the project and the key imple-
mentation agency. This corporation, wholly owned by GOI, was established
in 1970 as a specialized institution to promote and finance dairy development
in India. A major task of IDC since its inception has been to handle the
sale of dairy products provided as commodity aid to India and to use the
proceeds of such sales for national dairy development purposes, particularly
the Operation Flood I program. Its authorized functions include financing
cooperative dairy development and promotion of the expansion of milk pro-
cessing and marketing facilities. IDC's financial functions are complementary
to the technical services provided by NDDB. IDC has concentrated its efforts
on increasing the availability of long-term credit to dairy cooperatives and
has worked in close collaboration with NDDB in planning, promoting, financing
and monitoring dairy development based on the Amul model. GOI has also
entrusted to IDC responsibility for the procurement and distribution of all
national supplies of skim milk powder, both commercial powder and food aid.
It also handles the bulk procurement of dairy machinery for supply to dairy
plants, the import of exotic breeds of dairy cattle for stud farms and bull
mother farms, and exports of Indian dairy cattle.
1.27      IDC's Board of Directors comprises nine members, including the
Managing Director who is the chief executive; total staff numbers 160. All
senior executives dealing with project lending, supervision and loan recov-
eries have adequate experience in dairy development and project work and
are equal to their tasks. IDC has also frequently called on the technical
expertise in NDDB for support in its project appraisal and monitoring func-
tions. in anticipation of this project, IDC management has taken steps to
strengthen its Project Division by recruiting more qualified professional
staff experienced in project appraisal and supporting it with technical
assistance and training services   (3.04 and 3.05).  These arrangements will
enable IDC to carry out subproject appraisals and monitoring work as an
independent financial institution without having to fall back on NDDB's
assistance as hitherto, and to cope with the increased volume of project
lending envisaged for the future. IDC has its Head Office at Baroda and
Regional Offices at Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras. At the Head Office
there are five functional divisions: (i) Movements and Storage Division,
responsible for the procurement and distribution of indigenous and imported
milk commodities; (ii) Projects Division, handling the appraisal of dairy
development investment proposals and responsible for monitoring the progress
of projects; (iii) Milk Production Enhancement and Procurement Division,
concentrating on improving the technical basis of milk production programs
and organizing cooperatives for milk production and procurement; (iv) Finance
and Accounts Division which looks after loan disbursements and recoveries,
accounting, contracts and general financial management; (v) Secretarial,
Personnel, and Administrative Division, performing miscellaneous service
functions. The Regional Offices are responsible for local storage and move-
ment of milk and milk products, and for liaison with the states and other
institutions receiving financial assistance from IDC for development projects.
An organization chart for IDC is shown in Annex 1.4.



9-
1.28      The IDC provides financing to state governments, State Dairy
Corporations and cooperative institutions concerned with dairy development.
IDC believes that the implementing institutions should be given the maximum
possible autonomy in their decision-making process and be free of government
intervention in project operations. To date IDC has declined to take equity
capital in the institutions it has financed; it has also declined to nominate
directors to the boards of these institutions. By assuming this position
it has tried to be a pacesetter in providing autonomy to the cooperative
movement which has been overly dominated in the past by government nominees
to management and board positions, thereby leaving the milk producers with
little voice in management.
1.29      IDC has a share capital of Rs 10 M wholly owned by GOI.  Although
it has wide powers to receive money on deposit or loan, and to borrow or
raise or secure funds as the directors think fit, bonds or debentures have
not been issued nor has any long-term loan been obtained from government or
banking institutions. IDC is a nonprofit organization. Its Memorandum of
Association accordingly prohibits disbursement of any part of its income as
dividend to the shareholders. Thus, IDC is constituted as a service organi-
zation. The implementation of the Operation Flood I project has been self-
financing and has not depended on the availability of share capital or bor-
rowed funds. All other activities of the Corporation are, in principle,
operated on a no-profit/no-loss basis. IDC's earnings are at present limited
to interest on the surplus funds on deposit in banks and on project loans
outstanding (Table 1.1).
1.30      IDC's loan recovery record has been excellent (Table 1.2).  The few
overdues have resulted from administrative lapses on the part of borrowers
in not making the necessary provision for the repayment in the state budgets.
All such overdues were, however, collected within six months of the due dates.
As of March 31, 1977, the total of disbursements made by IDC for dairy devel-
opment projects was Rs 540 M of which Rs 178 M had been paid out in the form
of grants. Loans outstanding at that date were Rs 336 M. Loan repayments
are recycled by further lending. The annual fund inflow from loan repayments
available for recycling is estimated to increase from Rs 40 M ir 1977/78
to almost Rs 100 M in 1981/82. IDC's financial position is considered to
be sound. Its equity capital has remained at the original Rs 10 M. As of
March 31, 1977, reserve funds created by sales of WFP commodities, amounted
to Rs 234.6 M (US$26.9 M) and general reserve accumulations (interest income)
amount to Rs 76 M (US$8.7 M). Current assets and loans, net of current lia-
bilities as of March 31, 1977, were Rs 300 M. IDC's financial liquidity has
continued to be good. Summarized balance sheets are in Table 1.3.
Credit Services
1.31      In recent years, a significant growth in institutional credit from
cooperative and commercial banks has occurred and the relative importance of
private moneylenders, though still strong in village areas, appears to be
declining. Credit for the purchase of dairy animals is particularly important
to small farmers; moneylenders and the cooperative banks are the major source
of this credit.



- 10 -
1.32      The apex cooperative institutions providing short and medium term
credit, mainly for cattle purchase and crop inputs, are the State Cooperative
Banks (SCB) which work through District Central Cooperative Banks and Primary
Cooperative Credit Societies. Long-term credit in the cooperative sector
is provided mainly by the State Cooperative Land Development (Mortgage) Banks
(SLDB). The main sources of funds for these cooperative institutions are
members' equity and deposits, loans from Reserve Bank of India and, for the
SLDB, refinance from the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC). Commercial Banks (CB) are comparatively new to agricultural credit,
having started lending in a modest way, mainly to larger farmers, only since
1969. They are, however, rapidly expanding their agricultural portfolio.
1.33      ARDC, established by GOI in 1963, serves primarily as a refinancing
agency providing long-term accommodation to credit institutions financing
agricultural projects, mainly SLDB and CB. ARDC, in association with CB, is
the lending channel for all three ongoing IDA assisted dairy projects (1.31
and 1.32). The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) is another
GOI institution established in 1962 to promote and finance agricultural de-
velopment through cooperatives. NCDC's financing presently focuses on sugar
processing and crop storage.
Ongoing IDA-Supported Dairy Projects
1.34      Current IDA operations in India include three dairy development
projects, in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, with total costs of
approximately US$140 M financed, in part by, US$76.1 M in IDA credits. Each
project seeks to increase milk production by financing the formation of
district milk unions, each comprising about 400 village DCS. Credit funds
are mainly channeled through CB under refinancing arrangements with ARDC,
to the milk unions who use them to provide central milk processing, marketing
and service facilities to their constituent DCS. Project planning calls for
the majority shareholding of each union, presently held by GOI and respective
state governmee , to be owned eventually by the member DCS. Milk unions in
the three projects are incorporated into state dairy corporations which provide
overall services to their constituent unions, including the provision of bulls
and semen, consultant services in specialist areas, assistance in financial
arrangements, and market research and coordination.
1.35      Farmer response to the projects is uniformly excellent; 1,500 socie-
ties have been organized so far, and milk collection targets and revenues have
exceeded appraisal expectations. The majority of DCS members are landless
laborers and small and marginal farmers with about 1-2 ha landholdings. Milk
collections per DCS presently average 200 lpd day. DCS are profitable with
average reserves of about Rs 1,000 obtained in the first year of operations.
At the dairy processing plant level, progress in arranging loan financing to
the unions and in IDA disbursement has been slower than expected; the provi-
sion of adequate documentation for loan releases has been particularly dif-
ficult. Experience thus far has shown that the financial arrangements pro-
vided for dairy plant construction under these three projects have proven to
be cumbersome, and have resulted in frustration, lengthy delays, and multiple
appraisal of subproject loan requests as funds are channelled to unions in a
two stage process through ARDC and commercial banks. GOI has now agreed that
financing arrangements for the three ongoing projects be brought into harmony



- 11 -
with the pattern proposed under the National Dairy Project (3.13). Following
approval of this project steps will be taken to amend the credit agreements of
these three projects to enable IDC to act as a financing agency for these
projects.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Definition and Scope
2.01      The proposed project would comprise a first phase of Operation Flood
II, the national dairy program which seeks to increase milk production in the
villages of India and thereby initiate a series of actions leading to substan-
tial rural development. The essential element of the project is the formation
by village cattle owners of milk producer cooperatives, grouped into DCS, milk
unions and federations of milk unions in an organizational structure similar
to the Amul dairy cooperative in Gujarat (1.14 to 1.18). The project would
provide for milk collection, processing and marketing facilities, and the
supply of technical services for improving the quality and husbandry of cattle
and buffalo in selected milksheds in India, all states of which would be
eligible to participate in the project.  The livestock and agricultural output
of about 3 M to 4 M village farmers, including 500,000 landless stock owners,
would be increased substantially by project activities. The incremental pro-
duction of milk to be made available by the project to urban consumption
centers at project maturity in year 7 would be about 5 M lpd, about 20% of
the expected demand in major urban cities (5.11). Project investments would
comprise the purchase of the milk collection, processing and distribution
equipment, the construction of milk processing plants, storage and marketing
facilities and the provision of staff training and technical support services.
2.02      The project would comprise a range of activities that would be
initiated in its first three years and completed in seven years of disburse-
ments; these would include:
(a) establishment of about 20,000 DCS grouped into approx-
imately 50 dairy unions and 25 federations;
(b) provision of animal health, AI and other extension
services to cover all DCS;
(c) construction of dairy processing facilities with
a total incremental capacity of about 5 M lpd;
(d) provision of packaging, distribution and transport
facilities to handle the marketing of approximately
4.5 M lpd of liquid milk;
(e) provision for storage and long-distance transport
facilities to support the establishment of a buffer-
stock of dairy products and the development of a
national "milkgrid"; and



- 12 -
(f) provision of training, research and technical assistance.
2.03      The project would be made up of a series of subprojects.  These
would be prepared by dairy federations with assistance from NDDB and appraised
and financed by IDC in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA. Details of
these procedures are in Chapter 3. Since only a limited number of subprojects
are already prepared, it is not possible at this time to specify the number,
scope and phasing of the subprojects that would be financed. The following
paragraphs describing the main features and targets of the projects are real-
istic aggregates based on experience gained in Operation Flood I and the three
IDA-financed operations. The work program for the first year's activities has
been agreed between IDC and IDA, and assurances have been obtained from GOI
and IDC that the work programs in each of the following years of the project
would be reviewed in association with IDA.
Main Features
DCS Establishment
2.04      The central feature of the project requires the organization of some
20,000 DCS for the development of dairying in the villages. Details of the
expected phasing of the incremental output of these DCS is provided in para
4.03. The DCS would be established by spearhead teams trained by NDDB (3.02)
and employed by each dairy federation (2.07). At project maturity, DCS member-
ship, landholding and milch cow numbers would be approximately as follows:
Families Participating           Number      Land Area (ac)      Cows
Landless                          500,000         -0-            600,000
Marginal Farmers<2.5 ac         2,000,000      2,000,000       3,000,000
Small Farmers 2.5 to 10 ac        700,000      3,500,000       1,000,000
Commercial Farmers>10 ac          300,000      4,500,000       1,000,000
3,500,000    10,000,000       5,600,000
2.05      The DCS concept, outlined in paras 1.15 and 1.16, is an indigeneous
and well-proven organizational structure that has had marked success in
improving village living standards and family income. The DCS are community
organizations operated by village farmers, registered by the local registrar
of cooperative societies under carefully formulated and tested bylaws. IDA
has obtained assurances from GOI that the DCS to be established under the proj-
ect would be organized and registered according to the standard bylaws based
on the Amul model (Annex 2). Key project activities at the DCS level would
include: (a) the provision of an organized market for milk and payment for
this milk based on its butterfat content; (b) the provision of technical serv-
ices in animal husbandry and feeding programs, including animal health and AI
services; (c) a training program for DCS staff and DCS commitltee members;
(d) continuous supervision of DCS and a continuous audit of their accounts;
and (e) the provision of start-up equipment for each new DCS.



- 13 -
2.06      The method of establishing DCS to be used under the project is well
tested and proven. Spearhead teams consisting of 8 to 10 experienced techni-
cians carefully survey the dairy potential of possible DCS villages, explain
in detail to the villagers how the societies and unions function, demonstrate
through visits to established societies the system in action, and then pro-
vide central staff resources while the training for village DCS staff is
undertaken. The investment required to establish a DCS would consist of milk
collection and testing equipment, an AI pen, veterinary and AI equipment,
some office furniture and most importantly, the training of DCS staff and the
salaries of the personnel responsible for forming DCS.
Union Services
2.07      DCS would be established as part of district level milk unions com-
prising, on average, 400 DCS. In states where several unions are in proximity,
unions would group together in federations of approximately 2 to 6 unions.
This aggregation would be encouraged in order to achieve more efficient market
management, as well as economies of scale by union specialization in the pro-
cessing of specific dairy products. Federations would be similar in form and
function to existing IDA-supported state dairy corporations but registered as
cooperatives rather than companies. For convenience and simplicity in project
presentation, project investment requirements are detailed on a union basis, but
where unions can be federated, investment planning and implementation would be
carried out by a federation of these unions rather than each union separately
(3.01).
2.08      The principal functions and responsibilities of a union formed by a
central spearhead team (3.02) would be to: (a) organize and effect the estab-
lishment of DCS, including the training of DCS staff and the audit of accounts;
(b) provide the animal health and AI services for the DCS; (c) organize and
manage the transport of milk from DCS to dairies; (d) organize the supply of
cattle feed and fodder seed to DCS; (e) demonstrate in DCS improved mixed
farming and fodder production techniques; (f) channel to the DCS existing
calf-rearing and fodder seed subsidies; and (g) process and market the milk
produced by the DCS. NDDB and established federations would train the nucleus
staff of the unions and new federations who would direct the organization of
DCS (3.02).
2.09      Milk would be collected from DCS along specifically defined and
economically viable routes involving 10 to 15 DCS. Milk from the DCS would
be collected twice daily and transported to the dairy plants by contractors
hired by the union. Physical targets for the services to be supplied by
each union by year 5 of its inception include 100,000 inseminations in 400
DCS, the operation of 25 to 30 milk routes each with a route supervisor and
extension advisor, the operation of 8 to 10 routine veterinary routes and
an emergency veterinary service, and the training of about 100 DCS staff
each year. Union services to DCS include AI, animal health and extension
services and DCS supervision and audit.
2.10      The training of spearhead teams, DCS and union staff would be a
major task of the project. Higher level training would be carried out in



- 14 -
the training facilities of NDDB (2.17), and the training of DCS secretaries
and AI inseminators in local union training centers. The training of in-
dividuals to be provided may be summarized as follows:
A.   By NDDB at NDDB training facilities:
(1)  Spearhead team members           70 per union for 3 months
(2)  Union key staff                  10 per union for 3 months
(3)  Union training staff              5 per union for 6 months
(4)  Dairy plant & marketing staff  10 per union for 6 months
B.   By Unions in the union training centers:
(1)  DCS secretaries, inseminators
and animal health assistants    3 per DCS for 2 months
(2)  DCS management committees        10 per DCS for 1 week
(3)  Farmer visits to established
unions                           10 per DCS for 1 week
Well planned curricula are available for these training programs.
Processing Facilities
2.11      The project aims at the construction of about 5 M lpd of incremental
processing capacity which, given a surplus capacity in existing plants to be
included in the project, would be sufficient to cope with an incremental pro-
curement of 8 M lpd. Included in this processing capacity would be about 1.0 M
lpd of product manufacture, mainly milk powder and butter, to provide for sea-
sonal balancing of milk supplies. Processing investment estimates are based
on a model that assumes a mix of plant expansion and new plant construction
and on a product mix that assumes 80% of sales as liquid milk and 20% for
conversion to butter, milk powder and other dairy products. The project would
provide for the takeover and expansion of existing processing plants where
practical (2.22), as well as the construction of new plants. The specific
investment plans for each union would be based on a detailed study of existing
processing facilities in each union and would contain a market analysis (3.08).
Construction costs of the various possible plants are summarized in Table 2.4
(Annex 1) and approximate Rs 200 for each lpd of installed capacity. For a
typical 150,000 lpd plant they may be summarized, in Rs/liter of incremental
capacity created, as follows:
Manufacturing Plant       Liquid Milk Plant
New       Expansion       New      Expansion
Equipment          180           105           90         70
Civil Works         45            20           35          5
Vehicles            25            25           25         25
250           150          150       100



- 15 -
Distribution and Marketing
2.12      The project would provide facilities to market an additional 4.5 M
lpd of liquid milk in the major urban markets and in smaller cities and towns
in the vicinity of production areas (20% of milk procured by the dairy plants
would be converted to milk products). The major investments necessary to
provide adequate milk distribution and marketing facilities would comprise
storage and transportation facilities, milk packing and paper lamination
equipment, and bulk milk vending machines and dispensers. Costs of these
facilities are in Table 2.5.
2.13      Three major modes of distribution would be expanded under the
project: bulk vending systems 1/; sachets; and tetrapacks for "long life milk".
Additionally, increased supplies to institutional purchasers and small-town
markets would be packaged in 40-liter cans. Bottled milk, which in the past
was favored by most dairies in the organized sector, is rapidly being replaced
by other distribution systems. Based on the experience of recent market
development in the major cities of India it is expected that 50% of milk sales
under the project would be handled through bulk vending units. About 20% of
retail sales would occur with milk packed in plastic sachets, 20% in cans sold
to institutional purchasers, and 10% as sterile milk in longlife packages.
Investment costs for different distribution systems are in Table 2.5. The
estimated project cost of Rs 577 M for the distribution and marketing of
4.5 M lpd includes union transport costs, and can be summarised as follows:
Cost              Volume        Total
Mode               Rs/liter         Distribution      Cost
lpd (000)    (Rs M)
Bulk vending              160                1,200          192
Retail dispensors           95               1,200          114
Can units                   50                 800           40
Sachets                    145                 800          116
Tetrapack                 230                  500          115
128               4,500          577
Paper Lamination
2.14      The production of laminated paper suitable for packing sterilized
milk is a process requiring the bonding of polyethylene film to unbleached
duplex paper. The technique used is patented by Messrs Tetra-pak Inter-
national AB, Sweden, with whom IDC plans to establish a joint venture to pro-
duce IDC requirements of this paper for sterile milk packaging. The proposed
paper laminating plant, to be located at Baroda, would produce sufficient
1/   Bulk vending of milk, developed recently by NDDB, involves the sale of
cold pasteurized milk dispensed mechanically from a bulk cooled container.
Several models of bulk vending systems of varying size and differing
degrees of automation are now available to suit different types of
market requirements.



- 16 -
laminated paper to supply the dairies financed under the project, as well as
for the requirements of other sectors of the dairy and food processing industry.
Investment costs of the plant are estimated at Rs 25.3 M of which Rs 14.4 M
is a foreign exchange cost for imported manufacturing equipment to be financed
under the project (Table 2.6). Raw material requirements (duplex paper, poly-
ethylene and ink) are produced in India in the vicinity of Baroda and are
readily available.
Buffer Stock Storage and Transport
2.15      IDC maintains a pool stock of milk powder and butter oil in order to
provide: (a) a buffer against fluctuations in market demand for these products;
and (b) a price stabilization mechanism for milk powder and butter oil in a
market in which supplies are largely dependent upon erratic overseas arrivals.
Present use of buffer stocks approximates 12,000 tons of powder and 4,000 tons
of butter oil a year, sufficient to reconstitute about 700,000 lpd of milk
throughout the period of inadequate supply. IDC stores butter oil and powder
mainly in rented accommodation, but some warehouses have had to be constructed
in areas where rental has not been possible. An estimated 2,:500 tons of addi-
tional storage costing Rs 3.3 M would be constructed for project purposes by
IDC. Each union would also have local storage facilities equivalent to 10%
(700 tons) of its product processing capacity, the costs of which are included
in plant construction estimates.
2.16      Chilled milk transported long distances is carried in IDC rail
tankers of 36,000 liter average capacity. IDC presently owns 40 rail tankers;
sufficient to handle about 480,000 lpd. The incremental milk of the project
requiring rail transport is estimated at 1.5 M lpd for which 75 rail tankers
would be required. Provision would be made under the project to finance these
tankers which are estimated to cost Rs 800,000 each (Table 2.6).
Training and Research
2.17      Since its inception in 1965, the NDDB has become the focal point in
India for training in modern dairying and in the organization of dairy coopera-
tives. Through its Training and Manpower Development Division, NDDB provides
manpower development services including on-the-job training as well as class-
room facilities. Under the project, NDDB would expand existing, and create
new training facilities. The project would finance expansion of staff and
the facilities at the Mansinh Institute, at NDDB headquarters in Anand, and
the establishment of new training facilities at four regional centers, where
courses patterned after those available at NDDB headquarters would be offered.
Capital investments include hostel facilities, classrooms and teaching mate-
rials totaling Rs 26.2 M (Table 2.6). Because training of key federation and
union staff is a key initial step in project implementation, a sum not exceed-
ing US$1.0 M would be made available by IDA as retroactive financing 1/ for
expenditures incurred on project training and technical assistance between
January 1, 1978 and credit signing. GOI have provided IDA with an assurance
1/   Subject to IDA procurement guidelines.



- 17 -
that adequate funds will be made available to NDDB on a grant basis to cover
project training and research requirements (2.19).
2.18      Although some states believe they now have staff with sufficient
experience to prepare feasibility studies for dairy development, the bulk of
the studies would be entrusted to NDDB on a consultancy basis. For this
purpose NDDB is expanding its staff capability in project preparation. The
cost of this incremental staff would be met by the consultancy fee NDDB
normally charge clients for design services and is included in project costs.
Incremental staffing would be sufficient to cope with the project work load.
The project division of IDC would also be strengthened; IDC would add 20
professionals to this division in the course of the project. A good selection
of adequately trained applicants for these new posts is available to NDDB and
IDC. To support the build up of project formulation and evaluation staff in
IDC and NDDB, and particularly dairy plant management staff in newly formed
federations, 63 man years of technical assistance would be provided. The
majority (50) of the technical assistance posts would be for experienced
cooperative dairy plant managers. Depending upon current staff recruitment,
NDDB and IDC plan to use about four man years of technical assistance in pro-
ject formulation and evaluation; two man years to IDC and two man years to
NDDB (2.19). Nine man years of technical assistance in specialized research
areas would also be provided (2.19). Assurances have been obtained from GOI
and IDC that these consultants would be engaged on TOR and terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA. Total technical assistance for the project would
be equivalent to 63 man years costing US$50,000 per man year.
2.19      The Indian dairy industry is in a state of rapid evolution and
developments in milk production, processing and marketing are occurring with
great rapidity. NDDB has supported this development with an excellent applied
research program which would be expanded as part of the project. A new re-
search division within NDDB would be initiated comprising four main sections:
(a) farm systems; (b) design engineering; (c) dairy technology and product
formulation; and (d) support services including market analysis, studies on
intensive urban milk marketing, and market information systems. Incremental
costs for the first three years of the operation of this division are esti-
mated at Rs 23 M. It is anticipated that this research division would be
largely self-supporting as revenues from patents, licensing arrangements and
technical service fees are expected to grow at a rapid rate.
Cost Estimates
2.20      Project costs are based on estimates of the investment mix past
experience indicates each union and federation requires. They are estimated
at Rs 3,128 M (US$364 M equivalent) including duties and taxes which would
amount to Rs 310 M (US$36 M) 1/. The foreign exchange component would be
about Rs 1,005 M (US$117 M) representing 32% of the total costs (or 35% of
project costs net of duties and taxes). Details, summarized on the following
page, are in Table 2.
1/   40% of imported items.



- 18 -
Rs Million               US$ Million          % of
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
DCS Equipment              59.1      3.1     62.2      6.9    0.4      7.2    2.5
Union AI and Services      93.0    48.0    141.0    10.8    5.6    16.4    5.7
DCS and Union Establish-
ment                    540.0    11.5    551.5    62.8    1.3    64.1   22.1
Processing                580.0   420.0  1,000.0    67.4   48.8   116.2   40.0
Distribution              317.4   259.7    577.1    36.9   30.2'   67.1   23.1
Supporting Investments
IDC      -  Lamination  10.9    14.4       25.3      1.3    1.7      2.9    1.0
-  Storage       3.0     0.3       3.3       .3      0     0.4    0.1
-  Tankers     48.0    12.0       60.0     5.6    1.4      7.0    2.4
NDDB     -  Training    23.6       2.6     26.2      2.7    0.3      3.0    1.1
-  Research    20.0      3.0      23.0     2.3    0.3      2.7    0.9
Technical Assistance          0    27.1      27.1        0    3.2      3.2    1.1
Subtotal                1,695.0   801.7  2,496.7   197.1   93.3   290.4   80
Contingencies             428.4   203.0    631.4    49.8   23.6    73.4   20
Total Cost              2,123.4 1,004.7  3,128.1   246.9  116.9   363.8  100
2.21      The above estimates are based on December 1977 prices and are derived
from NDDB and IDC investment data collected in various states of India. Both
organizations have extensive experience with investments of the type to be
financed under the project. Price contingencies representing price increases
have been added using the following estimated inflation rates compounded
annually.
Annual Rate                           1978   1979   1980-85
Equipment Services and Civil Works    7       6.5      6.0
Project Financing
2.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$150 M (Rs 1,290 M) would meet about
46% of total costs, net of import duties and taxes, and would cover all for-
eign exchange costs and about US$33 M of local costs. The remaining local
costs of Rs 1,838 M (US$214 M), including duties and taxes, would be met by
an IDC contribution of Rs 200 M from its own resources, and by GOI contribu-
tions (Rs 1,530) to the incremental funds of IDC and Rs 60 M as grants to
NDDB for training assistance. The DCS would also provide Rs 48 M (US$5.6 M)
as equity from self-generated funds. Subject to IDA approval of the project,
EEC is expected to provide to GOI the equivalent of approximately.US$100 M
in the form of surplus skim milk powder and butter oil in the first three years
of the project. The value of existing assets transferred from state govern-
ments to milk unions and federations is not included in project, costs; these
transfers would be made on a lease or management contract basis or at book
values and under terms and conditions to be negotiated between the state



- 19 -
government, IDC and the respective union or federation at the time of nego-
tiating each subproject financing plan. The financing plan, outlined by main
components and by items of expenditure, is as follows:
Financing of Project Components
IDC /a  DCS      GOI     Total      IDA
------------- (Rs M) ----------------
DCS Equipment                          78                         78        33
Union Services                        173                        173        73
DCS and Union Establishment           636       48               684       268
Processing and Distribution         1,994                      1,994       838
IDC Direct Investment                 105                        105        44
NDDB Research and Training                              60        60        -
Technical Assistance                            _       34        34        34
2,986      48       94    3,128    1,290
Financing by Expenditure Items
IDC /a  DCS      GOI     Total      IDA
------------- (Rs M) ----------------
Equipment                           1,405               36    1,441        852
Vehicles                              604                4       608       304
Bulls                                  18                -        18        -
Civil Works                           380               20       400       100
T.A. and Staff Costs                  480               34       514        34
Working Capital                        99       48       -       147        -
2,986      48       94    3,128    1,290
/a   Made up by IDC (Rs 200 M), GOI (Rs 1,530 M including import taxes
and duties) and IDA (Rs 1,256 M).
2.23      The IDA credit to GOI would be on standard terms.  GOI would onlend
Rs 1,256 M of IDA funds to IDC with terms and conditions as described in 3.11-
3.13 and carry the exchange risk. It will also provide IDC with a further
Rs 1,530 M from its own resources of which an estimated Rs 860 M would be
obtained from the sale of EEC donated dairy projects passed as a grant to IDC
while the additional Rs 670 M would be an additional loan from GOI to IDC under
the same terms and conditions used for onlending the IDA funds. Together with
its own contribution of Rs 200 M, IDC would employ these funds to finance the
development of DCS, unions and federations. IDC would finance revenue earning
capital investments by loans, while costs required by borrowers in activities
such as staff training and the initial provision of services to DCS such as
animal health and AI would be met by grants or the purchase of equity. A
standard rate of 70 to 30 loan to grant/equity would be used as under Opera-
tion Flood I. Lending terms are discussed in 3.11-3.14. GOI funds to be



- 20 -
used by NDDB (Rs 60 M) would be passed on as a grant and GOI would finance
directly all technical assistance requirements. Assurances have been obtained
from GOI that adequate funds would be made available to IDC to meet all commit-
ments under the project. Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOI
and IDC acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Short-term credit needs of the cooperatives would be provided by the State
Cooperative Banks and Commercial Banks as part of their normal banking opera-
tions. Initial operating deficits are not anticipated, but in the occasional
circumstances where these occur they would be capitalized and financed by IDC
or a State Cooperative Bank as determined in each subproject loan agreement.
Procurement
2.24      Major items of machinery and packaging equipment for the milk pro-
cessing and distribution system totalling US$210 M would be bulked and procured
by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Local manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of
15% or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Minor equipment such
as electrical components and other fixtures and fittings for the plants, milk
vending equipment, and materials for research and training (US$35 M) would be
procured on the basis of local competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with NDDB and IDC procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. It
would not be practical to bulk these equipment and supplies because the items
are many and varied, of individual.ly small value, and spread over time and
place. As there is adequate representation of local suppliers and local agents
of foreign suppliers, competition is assured. For the same reasons, equipment
and vehicles for the DCS and union services (US$34 M) would be purchased by
local competitive bidding.
2.25      Since contracts for civil works for construction of dairy processing
plants, stores and administration buildings (US$46 M) would be individually
small, dispersed in time and place, they would not be attractive to and thus
would not warrant ICB procedures. These would therefore be let on the basis
of local competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Technical assistance services (US$4 M) would
be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for selection of consultants.
Urgent purchases of minor equipment and supplies up to a total value of US$2 M
would be procured by prudent shopping. The balance of project costs (US$33 M)
would cover pool stock operations and manpower development costs.
2.26      Under Operation Flood I and the three IDA-financed dairy projects,
dairy plants are constructed by NDDB on a turnkey basis. NDDB procures dairy
plant equipment under ICB and employs subcontractors for civil works and
erection on a local competitive bidding basis, charging the unions/federations
a service charge of 5% of total cost. These arrangements work well. While
other contractors would be encouraged to undertake such work,, much of the
construction would be carried out by NDDB.



- 21 -
Disbursements
2.27      Disbursements from the proposed credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
items and 100% of local expenditure of items procured
locally after ICB;
(b)  60% of expenditure of locally manufactured equipment
and vehicles and of other locally procured items;
(c)  60% of IDC disbursements for DCS, union and federation
establishment costs, civil works, and processing and
distribution facilities not otherwise financed under
(a) and (b); and
(d) 100% of technical assistance services.
Disbursements would be fully documented, except that documents supporting
disbursements under (c) would not be submitted to IDA but retained by IDC and
audited quarterly by IDC's statutory auditors. Such documents would be made
available for inspection to IDA during supervision mission visits. Appro-
priate assurances were obtained from GOI and IDC in this regard. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 3.
Environmental Impact
2.28      The project would have a positive effect upon the environment.
To the extent that the project causes city-kept milk cattle and buffalo to
be reduced in numbers, urban pollution would be mitigated. Investment of
DCS reserve funds in village water supplies, access roads and educational
and social facilities would make a noteworthy impact on the quality of life
in rural villages. All milk plants would be equipped with drainage treatment
facilities plants which would ensure that effluent discharged would meet
national BOD standards.
III. ORGANIZATION AND LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
General
3.01      Cooperative organization, ownership and control are the central
features of the project which would be implemented through IDC. Milk producers
participating in each subproject would be assisted in forming DCS at village
level for milk collection and extension services; these DCS would be organized
within cooperative milk unions and federations of unions for milk processing
and distribution. Each DCS would be registered under the Cooperatives Act with
bylaws as summarized in Annex 2. Individual DCS would have financial autonomy



- 22 -
and other operational features indicated in paras 1.12, 1.13 and 2.04. Most
milk unions would be constituent members of a milk marketing federation which
would own and operate common facilities for the use of member unions, par-
ticularly those facilities and services which can be provided more effectively
and economically by the apex federation and which are beyond the means of an
individual union. They would also handle the processing and marketing of milk
products. Cooperative unions and federations of unions would also be regis-
tered under the Cooperatives Act with bylaws as summarized in Annex 2. Their
capital, however, would be structured in a manner similar to institutions
formed under the Companies Act. Thus, it would be possible for the equity
capital in each union or federation to be owned by its DCS members as well
as others, e.g., IDC, GOI and state governments. The Board of Directors of
each union and federation would, however, be elected by the milk producers,
with government nominees limited to 3 out of 11 members irrespective of the
size of the relative equity holding. The organization of a typical union is
depicted in Annex 1 and operational details are in paras 2.06 to 2.10.
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
3.02      NDDB would play a pivotal technical role in selecting, training and
supervising the staff who would establish federations, unions and DCS. As
in existing dairy projects NDDB would provide support for each union or fed-
eration initiated through a composite spearhead team. This spearhead team,
which in its first year of operations would be paid for by NDDB/IDC, and
thereafter by the union/federation, would comprise personnel with academic,
professional and executive competence for implementing a dairy business,
commencing from milk production through processing, distribution and market-
ing.  This team would be recruited and trained by NDDB to assist federations
in organizing the village DCS and their unions.  They would also arrange for
providing AI and other services to DCS members.  NDDB would also be engaged by
most of the participating unions/federations to provide advisory services in
project identification, preparation of feasibility studies, milk production
enhancement, preparation of specifications and bidding documents, bid evalua-
tions, supervision of procurement and construction, staff recruitment and
training, and market research.
3.03      Organizationally and managerially NDDB is competent to undertake
the various roles envisaged for it under this project. Within NDDB, project
formulation has been the responsibility of the Planning Department and special-
ized technical manpower in engineering, animal husbandry, dairy technology was
borrowed, according to needs, from other NDDB departments. To prepare for the
increased volume of consultancy business NDDB would be called upon to handle
under this project, the management of NDDB have arranged to strengthen the
Planning Department by recruiting a further five project analysts with spe-
cialization in finance and economics, and two economists with marketing spe-
cialization, and to transfer from its other Departments engineers, livestock
specialists, and dairy technologists suitable for full-time employment in feas-
ibility study work. The immediate objective is to provide staff adequate for
the formation of five project preparation teams, each with a full complement
of necessary specialization to prepare union and federation feasibility studies



- 23 -
suited to IDC appraisal. In order to assist in coordinating the heavy work
load of feasibility studies, and to assist training of new project staff
in project identification, field investigations and report preparation 24
man-months of technical assistance services are provided in the project
(2.18). With these arrangements NDDB should not have problems in coping with
the increase in feasibility study assignments. The implementation schedule
for a typical subproject is shown in Annex 5.
Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)
3.04      IDC would be the project authority and have major responsibility for
implementing the project, the components of which would be planned mainly by
NDDB.   IDC would also function as the channel for onlending funds to unions
and federations. Though established only in 1970, IDC has extensive experience
in promoting, planning, appraising, financing and monitoring successful dairy
development projects. In the past, IDC's Project Division has frequently called
on the technical expertise in NDDB to support its project appraisal and moni-
toring functions. With an expanded work load now facing this division the
Board of IDC has recognized the desirability of IDC being autonomous in its
staff capability for project appraisal and monitoring. IDC management are
therefore arranging to strengthen the Appraisal and Monitoring Divisions by
recruiting additional professionally qualified executives specialized in pro-
ject analysis and implementation. IDC would recruit this additional staff by
drawing on executives of proven ability from ongoing dairy and industrial
projects, consultancy organizations and financing institutions.
3.05      The capability of IDC's Project Appraisal Division would also be
strengthened with 24 man-months of technical assistance services provided in
the project (2.18). The consultant engaged would assist in preparing and
reviewing IDC appraisal reports and participate in the training of IDC's
professional staff engaged in project appraisal and monitoring work.
3.06      IDC's existing organization and management is adequate to cope with
all its other major functions such as handling and sale of milk products from
EEC, subproject loan disbursements and debt collections.
Operational Procedures
3.07      The first step in the development of a dairy subproject in a spe-
cific state would be a formal request for subproject discussions between
representatives from the participating state government, or federation if
already formed, and IDC. This would be followed by an exchange of letters
between IDC and the government or federation concerned. These letters would
outline the state's proposal for the planned dairy development, define the
initial mutual responsibilities for subproject formulation and preparation,
specify the points to be covered in the subproject feasibility study and
outline the basic principles of the final loan agreement to be entered into.
These letters would serve as an interim agreement between the government and
IDC upon which the planning of the federation and its constituent milk unions
and DCS would be initiated (Schedule A).



- 24 -
3.08      Each participating state would then proceed to engage consultants,
in most cases NDDB, to carry out a detailed feasibility study and to prepare
a project report suitable for appraisal by IDC. Suggested outlines for report
are in Annex 4. This report would be a simple action oriented document estab-
lishing the technical, organizational and financial criteria of the subproject
and providing a detailed financial and market plan and implementation schedule
(Annex 5) for each subproject.
3.09      Appraisal by IDC of the individual subprojects would include a
thorough review of the relevant feasibility study, including field investiga-
tions, and the preparation of a summary appraisal report containing the tech-
nical and financial parameters of the subproject, its financing plan, and its
implementation schedule and targets. The report would also present the
recommendations of the appraisal teams for submission to IDC board through the
Managing Director. Subproject appraisals would be based on criteria estab-
lished in agreement with IDA (Schedule B). Suitable assurances were obtained
from GOI and IDC that these subproject criteria would be appLied by IDC in
every loan application covered under this project.
3.10      Subject to positive appraisal by IDC of the subproject, IDC would
enter into a loan agreement with the milk unions or federations. Provision of
spearhead teams to create DCS, for the contracting and construction of process-
ing plants, and plans and funds for staff training would be formalized in the
loan agreement, mainly as subcontracts with NDDB. IDC, as the project author-
ity, would have responsibility for ensuring the successful iMplementation of
all subprojects. Monitoring of the progress of each subproject, against
specific targets specified in each IDC appraisal report, would be carried out
by IDC at least once each six months and supported periodically by IDA super-
vision mission. Reporting requirements are discussed in Annex 6. The first
five subprojects appraised by IDC would be forwarded to IDA for approval prior
to IDC approval. Subsequently, all subprojects, after approved by IDC, would
be forwarded to IDA for review. During negotiations appropriate assurances
were obtained from GOI and IDC in this regard.
Lending Terms
3.11      IDC's past financing of cooperatives for dairy development has
generally involved an initial grant to cover planning costs and to provide the
balance of productive investment costs in the ratio of a 30% grant and a 70%
loan maturing in twelve years with a two-year grace period. Interest charged
on the loan has increased over the years from 6% to the current rate of 8%.
Following a review of IDC's lending practices, it is considered that the high
priority of dairy development projects justifies the current [DC financing
package and provides a needed stimulus that with some adjustment (involving
a slight hardening of terms) would be appropriate for use under the project.
Under the project initial planning costs would be incorporated in the single
financing package to be financed under the 30:70 formula. Interest during
the grace period of the loan, which would extend to five years, would be
capitalized and the maturity of the loan period would be based on cash flow



- 25 -
projections. Loan repayment would not exceed the effective life of the
physical assets financed, about 15 years. Interest on loans would also be
increased to 8.5% to provide a minimum margin of 1% over IDC's borrowing
rate from GOI (2.23). This rate is in line with GOI's other credit facilities
provided to the poorer segments of Indian agriculture. A review of the in-
terest rates prevalent in India's agricultural sector indicates that the pro-
posed 8.5% is reasonable. Rates range from 4.5% to 11%, the lower rates
applying to GOI's centrally sponsored schemes, mostly command area develop-
ment in major irrigation schemes.
3.12      The interest rate to be charged by IDC would be based on the
Interest Rate Schedule published by Department of Banking in the Union Ministry
of Finance. This schedule reflects GOI policy on interest rates applied to
various government onlending institutions for specific purposes. GOI is of
the view that IDC, ARDC and NCDC should be treated equally in terms of their
borrowing and onlending rates. The current borrowing rate applicable to ARDC
and NCDC is 7.5% and the onlending rate is 8.5%. This pattern of lending
would provide IDC with an interest spread of 1% which would be adequate to
cover its lending costs (Table 6.1).
3.13      The interest charged to the borrower in the three ongoing dairy
projects supported by IDA is 11%. In these projects ARDC lends at 8.5% to
participating commercial banks who, in turn, relend to the ultimate borrowers
at 10.5% to 11%, taking a margin of 2% to 2.5%. In these projects GOI is now
proposing to streamline financing arrangements to enable the dairy coopera-
tives to borrow under similar terms and conditions to those proposed for this
project by drawing loan funds directly from ARDC or from IDC, rather than
through intermediary banks. As noted in 1.35, the multi-tiered financial
arrangements under the ongoing projects have proved to be cumbersome and
slow. Under the proposed project, onlending has been streamlined with the
removal of one tier in the channelling hierarchy and, consequently, the
cost of capital is lower. GOI feels strongly that it is appropriate to
pass these savings along to the borrowers in this case, as they comprise
cooperatives largely made up of small farmers and landless laborers. The
rate is consistent with the rate charged by other centrally funded institu-
tions lending to cooperatives such as the National Cooperative Development
Corporation. With long-run inflation estimated at no more than 5% to 6%
per annum, IDC would be lending at a positive real rate of interest of 2.5%
to 3.5%.
3.14      The proposed terms will facilitate the establishment of dairy
cooperatives and their unions by people who are mostly small farmers and
landless laborers and ensure they are independent and financially viable
from the very beginning. The transfer of resources to this group is con-
sistent with national policy and promotes rural investment in a way expected
to generate employment and increase incomes for very large numbers of people.
Experience in ongoing dairy projects shows that these results are actually
achieved and that surplus revenues accruing to dairy cooperative societies
and unions are being used for community uplift programs such as schools,
access roads and village water supply systems.



- 26 -
Accounts and Audit
3.15      The accounting and auditing procedures proposed for this project
would be similar to those followed in other Bank Group financed projects in-
volving agricultural credit. The two main agencies participating in the
project, IDC and NDDB, would prepare annual budgets, quarterly progress reports
and annual accounts as they relate to project activities. IDC would maintain
both memorandum, ledger and control accounts and other necessary records rela-
ting to subproject loans. These records together with approved loan applica-
tions, board papers and supervision summaries would provide a complete and
comprehensive record of the subproject cycle, its progress including project
appraisal and loan approval, disbursements, interest charges, installments due,
collections, overdues and follow up action. These records would be reviewed
periodically by IDA supervision missions, and summarized information on these
would be incorporated in IDC's quarterly progress reports. Assurances were
obtained from GOI and IDC that copies of these documents would be submitted
to IDA as follows:
(a) annual work programs and budgets not later than two months
prior to commencement of the agencies financial year;
(b) quarterly progress reports within one month of the close
of each quarter; and
(c) audited annual accounts and reports within six months of
the close of their financial years.
3.16      Project accounts prepared by these agencies would be subject to
annual audit by qualified accountant firms appointed by GOI and also by the
Controller and Auditor General of India. These audits are comprehensive and
the present audit arrangements are considered satisfactory to IDA. Assurance
were obtained from GOI and IDC that independent audits of these two agencies
would continue to be satisfactory to IDA and that audited accounts together
with long form and short form reports, with which GOI is familiar, would be
made available to IDA.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.17      Each milk union or federation would have internal arrangements for
monitoring subprojects. Additionally, it would have subproject evaluation
arrangements integrated with its internal audit system, the chief internal
auditor reporting to the board of directors through the managing director of
the ur -n or federation. NDDB already has such arrangements for monitoring
its own activities. In IDC there would be a Project Monitoring group lending
support to the Project Appraisal Division, and a separate Project Evaluation
Divisioi. reporting direct to IDC's Managing Director and its Board. An assur-
ance was obtained from GOI that the Project Evaluation Division in IDC would
be responsible for the preparation of quarterly progress reports and the
Project Completion Report to be submitted to IDA.



- 27 -
3.18      The IDC would have as one of its specific responsibilities the
task of ensuring effective and prompt subproject monitoring and evaluation,
and would carry out this monitoring and evaluation by using its own staff.
The purpose of this monitoring and ev-1ustion is inter alia to maintain
a continuous check on: (i) the progress of the subproject and its rate of
disbursement; (ii) the actual expenditures undertaken; (iii) the levels of
incremental output achieved; (iv) the prices paid and received for subproject
inputs and outputs; and (v) the contribution of the subproject to the desig-
nated beneficiaries and to the national economy.
3.19      The subproject implementation and disbursement schedules (Annexes 3
and 5) would provide the basic timetable for the initiation and completion of
key project activities. It would be the task of IDC's monitoring and evalua-
tion staff to review progress in achieving these schedules, to report to the
Managing Director the reasons for any significant divergence in actual and
predicted project performance and investment targets, and to prepare and submit
to the Managing Director and IDA quarterly reports on the progress of the
project (Annex 6).
IV. PRODUCTION AND YIELDS
4.01      It is clear from the experience gained under the ongoing IDA pro-
jects that the DCS concept is greatly appreciated by farmers throughout India.
This experience indicates that the incremental output of the typical DCS and
its members arise from the provision of an organized milk market to enhance
milk production and sales, from better feeding of milk animals through greater
fodder production and the use of small amounts of oilseed cake and mixed con-
centrate feed, from improvements in the genetic quality of both cattle and
buffalo by the provision of semen of superior sires through AI, from enhanced
performance associated with better disease control, particularly of foot and
mouth disease, and from the use of incremental manure to raise crop yields.
4.02      In estimating milk production generated by the project, the follow-
ing assumptions, based on experience gained under Operation Flood I and the
IDA funded dairy projects, have been used:
-    in areas served by DCS, 70% of farmers and stock owners will
join the DCS within four years of DCS initiation, with num-
bers rising from 90 in year 1 of the DCS to 175 in year 4;
-    milking cows associated with increasing DCS membership
would increase from 160 to 324 over the same period (about
1.8 per family);
-    the makeup of the DCS herd initially comprises about
78 cows and 85 buffalo, and changes to 186 cows, 45
crossbred cows and 136 buffalo by year 7. Milk yield
increases over 7 years (to 750 1 per lactation in cattle
cows and 110 1 in buffalo cows) are about 25% of initial
yields in original animals; lactation yields in mature
crossbred cows are assessed at 1,800 liters.



- 28 -
In sum, the production from a typical DCS is assumed to increase from a pre-
project level of about 170 lpd 1/ of which 120 lpd would be available for sale,
to about 680 lpd 2/ by year 7, of which 510 lpd would be for sale. Further
increases in production are expected beyond year 7 but have not been regarded
as a benefit to this project because further investment in additional process-
ing capacity to market additional milk would then be required.
4.03      The build up of DCS in the project is expected to be as follows:
-------------------Years----------------------
1        2         3        4         5       6
No. of Families per DCS        90       110       140       175      -        -
No. of New DCS per Union       80       120       150        5CI     -        -
No. of New Unions Formed       10        20        20      -         -        -
No. of New DCS Formed         800    2,800    5,500    5,900    4,000   1,000
4.04      The build up in incremental milk production and in the procurement
of milk resulting from the formation of a typical DCS is outlined in Table
3.1. Total milk production in the DCS by 1985 would amount to about 10.7 M
lpd. About 8 M lpd would be marketed and 2.7 M lpd consumed in village DCS.
Of total procurement about 65% would be incremental production, and 35Z exist-
ing production whose present utilization and value is diminished by the lack
of organized processing and market.systems. The build up rate in milk pro-
curement at each of the three levels of project organization is as follows:
1    2     3      4     5      6      7     8     9    10
Milk Procurement
per DCS (lpd)      150   270   320   400   430   460   510   530   570   610
Milk Procurement
per Union
(000 lpd)           12    46    96   128   144   167   181   194   208   220
Incremental Milk
Production from
Project (M lpd)    .03   .22   .75  1.61 2.84   4.05  5.16  6.25  7.2  8.24
Milk Procurement
from Project
(M lpd)            0.1   0.6   1.8   3.6   5.4   6.9   8.0   8.9   9.6  10.5
Total Project Milk
Production
(M lpd)            0.13  0.8   2.4   4.8   7.2   9.2  10.7  11.9  12.8  14.0
4.05      The development of DCS, and of the associated increases in milk
production, leads to changes in cropping patterns and to an increase in crop
1/   equivalent to 124 liters per acre per year.
2/   equivalent to 496 liters per acre per year.



- 29 -
yields. In particular, fodder crop areas and yields are increased, mainly
at the expense of fallow land, thus cropping intensity is somewhat increased.
Although good data on the extent of changes in crop areas and yields in DCS
villages is still meager, an attempt has been made, based upon field observa-
tions and discussions with DCS farmers, to assess the likely impact of these
changes on total production and farm income. DCS land use, yields and crop
budgets projected for this analysis, based upon a project land area totalling
10 M acres 1/, are detailed in Tables 4.1 and 4.2. Crop yield increases of the
order of 20% appear probable as a direct result of dairy development activi-
ties. In this event increases in foodgrain production of as much as 1.5 M
tons would occur as a consequence of the project, as well as large increases
in sugarcane and cotton production. These increases have not been included in
the assessment of the economic benefits of the project. Each DCS would also
produce more male calves suitable for draft purposes; in the absence of
information on the likely fate and price of these calves their value has also
been excluded from the project output.
V. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Milk Marketing
5.01      Annual milk production is currently estimated at 63 M lpd, providing
a per capita availability of 107 grams per day. Nutritional needs are esti-
mated by the National Medical Research Council at 180 grams a day. The
National Commission of Agriculture estimates the growth in the national
demand for milk and milk products to be about 5% per annum and that total
demand by 1985 will range between 91 M and 121 M lpd.
5.02      The demand for milk in urban areas is and, for many years, has been
in excess of marketable supplies. The imbalance of demand and supply is
exacerbated by large seasonal variations in supply; in the summer months milk
supplies decline to nearly one-third of those available in the winter months,
while demand for milk remains almost constant all year round. Currently, of
the national average production of 63 M lpd, 15 M lpd of liquid milk enters
the urban markets along with various milk products equivalent to 4 M lpd.
In the four major urban markets (Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras) dairy
imports, mainly from the World Food Program, presently supplement the supply
of liquid milk and baby food powder by about 20%.
5.03      Household surveys on milk consumption indicates that about one
half of the milk used in each urban household is consumed in liquid form
the balance being converted to various milk products, particularly curd.
NDDB is now initiating the production of curd type products and anticipates
a rapid expansion in sales of this type of processed milk. There has also
been a rapid expansion in the local production of non-traditional milk pro-
ducts, particularly milk powder, baby food powder and condensed milk.
5.04      Milk is offered for sale through two major marketing systems:
(i) the traditional channels of city milk producers, middlemen collectors
1/   20,000 villages, 500 acres per village.



- 30 -
and household vendors and (ii) the modern dairy system which is primarily
based on the vertically integrated producers' cooperatives of the Amul pat-
tern. The share of the modern dairy system presently accounts for about
50% (2.3 M lpd) of the liquid milk market in the four major cities of India
and a much smaller proportion in all other cities and towns.
5.05      Only in the past seven years has a major attempt been made to create
an organized milk marketing system in the four urban markets. This effort has
enabled the modern dairies to capture a substantial share (about 55%) of the
market from traditional vendors. In these seven years, sales of milk from the
organized sector have increased at the rate of above 10% per annum. The key
constraint to expanding sales is the sustained supply of good quality milk at
retail outlets, a problem compounded by the inadequate provision in most milk
processing plants for retail packaging and distribution of milk. Price trends
for milk at both the farmgate and retail levels reflect the inadequacy of milk
supplies; they have shown a marked increase in recent years. Between 1974 and
1977 farmgate prices have risen from Rs 20 per kg of butterfat equivalent in
raw milk to Rs 26 1/ per kg, a rise of 9.2% per annum compared with 2.5% rise
in the wholesale price of foodgrains. At the retail level, the price of one
liter of standard 3.5% fat milk in bottles has risen from about Rs 1.3 per
liter to Rs 2.0 (15.3% per annum); the rise in the consumer price index in the
same period was 7.8% per annum. Normally, the cooperative dairies pay the
primary producers 10% to 15% more than the traditional traders, and maintain
lower market prices per liter than the traditional sector. Lower production
costs of milk in rural areas and efficiency in milk processing and marketing
are the key factors enabling the cooperative sector to minimize the margins
between the two prices.
Market Prospects
5.06      The principal factors affecting demand for milk are the urban
population growth (3% per annum) and increases in household income (3% per
annum). Other factors, such as change in income distribution, the pace of
urbanization, change in tastes, food preferences and habits will also modify
the market situation and appear likely to increase the market demand. The
expected increase in the urban demand for milk is in excess of 5%.
5.07      A continuing insufficiency of milk supplies appears inevitable,
especially as urban milk production by city housed cattle is steadily dimin-
ishing due to both economic and environmental forces. Given the supply con-
straint, the opportunity for the cooperative dairy movement to strengthen
production and focus supply efforts in the urban markets where demand is
highly concentrated is excellent. It is confidently expected that the
cooperative dairy sector will increase its share of the urban milk market
in proportion to its capacity to increase rural milk production.
5.08      The projected urban demand for milk in 1985 exceeds 26 M lpd;
whereas expected sales of milk from the modern sector, following implementa-
tion of this project, would be approximately 9.5 M lpd or 37% of the urban
1/   Prices of Rs 30 per kg were being paid to DCS producers in March 1978.



- 31 -
demand. During the project period, dairy imports would continue to be
necessary to supplement the production of milk powder and butter oil required
for recombination in the summer months of minimal milk supplies. Bufferstocks
of skim milk powder and b-tter 3-c  al'_  need be created to allow for seasonal
fluctuations in supply.
5.09      With increasing milk supplies and improved dairy technology, milk
markets are no longer local. The establishment of a statewide milk
distribution network is now the foundation of regional milkgrids adjoining
several states, as well as a national milkgrid. Technological developments
in milk storage and long distance transport networks are rapidly expanding
this facility, and the milkgrid now successfully links the four major cities
to hinterland milk production areas. In the next decade, increased milk
supplies will also move to the secondary cities and towns whose population
now exceeds 100 M (5.10). The project is geared to supplying milk to about
142 cities each with a population of over 100,000. These markets are widely
dispersed geographically and there is unlikely to be an excessive intensity
of production in any given area. To take account of regional and state
disparities in production and consumption patterns, each subproject financed
by IDC would contain a market study based on the proforma outlined in Annex 4.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI and IDC that such a study would be an
integral part of IDC's appraisal process.
5.10      The overall supply and demand position throughout the next decade
may be conveniently summarized as follows:



- 32 -
1978  1980  1982  1984  1987
-M lpd-----------
I.   Demand and Supply
A.   Four Major Cities /a
Projected Demand /b7                         4.3   4.8   5.3   5.8   6.7
Supply from modern sector of which:           2.6   3.3   4.1   4.7   5.3
-  reconstitution of EEC donations           0.5    -       -     -      -
-  procurement from unions                    1.4   3.0   3.9   4.5   5.3
-  residual procurement /c                   0.7   0.3   0.2   0.2    -
B.   Intermediate and Smaller Cities /d
Projected Demand /b                          15.0  16.6  18.3  20.2  23.4
Supply from modern sector of which:          0.8   1.7   3.5   4.8   6.0
-  reconstitution of EEC donations            0.1   0.5   0.2    -       -
-  procurement from unions                   0.7   1.2   3.3   4.8   6.0
II. Procurement from Cooperative Sector
IDA Projects                                       0.5   0.9   1.2   1.2   1.2
Operation Flood I                                  1.8   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4
National Dairy Project                             0.1   1.8   5.4   8.0  10.5
Total                                         2.4   5.1   9.0  11.6  14.1
Less:  used for product manuf.               (0.3) (0.9) (1.8) (2.3) (2.8)
Union supplies of fresh milk                 2.1   4.2   7.2   9.3  11.3
III. Processing Capacity
IDA Projects                                       0.3   1.3   1.5   1.5   1.5
Operation Flood I                                  3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
National Dairy Project                              -    1.3   4.1   5.0   5.0
Total                                       35.3   5.6. 6 6   9.5   9.5
/a   Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Madras.
/b   Based on the initial consumption of liquid milk estimated at:  (1) 226
grams per capita in four major cities; (2) 150 grams p.c. in intermed-
iate cities; and (3) 105 grams p.c. in smaller cities. Demand is assumed
to grow at 5%.
/c   Some supplies from traditional sources are sold by middlemen to the city
dairies.
/d   Intermediate cities with a total population of 50 M and smaller cities
with a total population of 65 M.
Milk Prices
5.11      Farmers without access to an organized liquid milk market are restric-
ted to selling products from milk, principally ghee. Current prices of ghee
approximate Rs 18 to 20 per kg at the village level and the extraction effi-
ciency of village ghee making is believed to be of the order of 70% to 80%.
The effective milk price under such conditions is close to Rs 0.6 per liter.
In DCS villages, or in other villages close to important milk markets, milk
prices are markedly higher. Quite apart from the production services the
DCS supply, the provision of a stable milk market connecting rural producers
to city markets and offering attractive prices is an enormous benefit to rural



- 33 -
villages. In many DCS the price of milk has recently reached the equivalent
of Rs 30 per kg of milk fat equivalent; however, the more traditional price
of Rs 26 per kg of fat has been assumed in estimating project benefits. For
buffalo milk containing 6.5% fat the resulting price is Rs 1.7 per liter, and
for cows milk with 4.5% fat the price is Rs 1.2 per liter. The proportion of
buffalo to cows milk will change from about 65% to 35%, to 35% to 65% as the
project proceeds (Table 3). A price decline from an average of Rs 1.5 per
liter to Rs 1.4 per liter has been assumed over a 10-year period.
Financial Returns
5.12      Farmers.  Direct cash production costs of milk for the landless
farmer are assessed at 50% of sales (Table 3.2), and the net benefit stream
for a landless farmer buying a crossbred cow is also depicted in Table 3.2.
His financial rate of return to this purchase would be about 31%. For the
small farmer with some fodder and crop residues available, production costs
are reduced in proportion to the feed available. For the average farmer cash
costs approximate 25% of milk sales, thus the expected cash flow of the aver-
age DCS member, at the farm level, would be as follows: 1/
--  - -  - - - - -  - - - Y   e    a    rs- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -
0     1        2        3       4        5        6          7
Rs/yr  514   708    1102    1295    1609    1719          1814     1996
5.13      DCS.  In assessing the financial situation of a typical DCS, only
milk collection operations to a maximum intake of 510 lpd have been taken
into account. The projected cash flow of a typical DCS, showing the source
and use of funds, is summarized in Table 3. The DCS are expected to show
a cash surplus as early as year 1 and to increase this surplus to about
Rs 15,000 per annum in year 7. The financial rate of return of a typical
DCS, based on total assets employed, is expected to exceed 25%.
5.14      Milk Unions.  Projected milk sales from the typical union milk
plant have been held constant at about 144,000 lpd from year 7 onwards as an
increase in plant capacity would then be required. Based upon present margins
between the explant price of of milk and an average buying price from the DCS
(about Rs 0.5 per 1) the financial rate of return (FRR), without taxes, is
about 29% (Table 5). With taxes it is about 20%. This FRR is most sensitive
to price changes in the purchase price of milk. A 10% increase in the milk
price to the producers (with the prevailing selling price of liquid milk)
would give a negative FRR. A 5% increase would result in a FRR of 13.6%. If
the selling price were lowered by 10%, the FRR would also be negative, whereas
a price increase of 10% would raise the FRR to 61.7%. The most likely risk is
a delay in starting the construction of dairies. The FRR was calculated for
a case in which the actual dairy operations start a year later than scheduled
with overhead costs and other than raw material costs as normal. In this
1/   Where a price change per unit of milk occurs following DCS formation the
cash flow would be increased proportionately.



- 34 -
event, the FRR would be 15.4%. If operational costs were increased by addi-
tional taxes (+20%), the FRR would be 14%. Tests on the FRR may be summarized
as follows:
Cost/Benefit Item       Percentage Change    FRR   Percentage Change    FRR
All as scheduled                 -              29.0
Capital costs                   +15            24.4           -15            34.7
Cost of raw material            + 5            13.6           +10           (neg.)
Other operational costs         +20            14.0
Sale price of milk              +10            61.7          -10            (neg.)
Income from milk products       +10            44.3          -10             13.8
Longer construction period
than scheduled               (+ 1 year)      15.4
5.15      The Project.  For the project as a whole farm production costs of
milk are assessed at 30% of sales. At the farm level the net benefit stream
for the project as a whole is follows:
----------------------- Y e a r s -
1       2        3         4        5        6          7
Gross Value
(Rs M)        16.4      119      405       861     1511    2142        2712
Net Value
(Rs M)        11.5       83      283       602     1050    1499        1898
Cost Recovery
5.16      The GOI contribution to the project, net of taxes and IDC funds,
would amount to Rs 1,328 M (2.22). Of this amount about Rs 860 M is expected
to be provided as milk product commodity aid by the EEC, leaving Rs 468 M for
GOI to find from local resources. Grants for training and research, technical
assistance and infrastructure costs would be quickly recovered through incre-
mental income and excise taxes payable by each milk union. These are calcu-
lated at Rs 3 M and 1 M per year per union respectively (Table 5). At maturity
the project is expected, therefore, to lead to an inflow of about Rs 200 M
each year to the government budget. Incremental loan funds used by IDC, plus
accrued interest would be recovered in approximately 15 years and either
recycled or returned to GOI.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
6.01      The major project benefit would be a large increase in the income
a,A  living standards of 3 M to 4 M rural village households.  The primary
source of increased income would be an increase in milk production attained by
augmenting the productivity of existing dairy animals, and facilitating the
rketing of this milk.  Because increased dairying produces more manure used



- 35 -
in fertilizing crops, foodgrain production would also be increased. Addi-
tional important benefits would arise from year-round employment opportuni-
ties provided to the landless and smaller farmers amongst India's rural people,
while the organizational arrangements introduced under the project would
strengthen the decision making process at the village level, as well as local
capabilities for project planning, design and implementation. Overall, the
project would lead to marked improvement in the social and economic environ-
ment of all participating villages.
6.02      The overall impact of the project would result in incremental
milk production of 5 M lpd, and an increase in total milk sales of 8 M lpd.
As a secondary project benefit foodgrain production would be increased con-
siderably and a very large increase in farm employment amounting to about
1.2 M man years of work would be generated.
6.03      Most project beneficiaries would be subsistence and small farmers
whose average annual per capita farm income (before subsistence) is about
Rs 400 which is less than one half the national average income. Under the
project, farm incomes from increased milk sales would rise by about Rs 1,400
per year, while increased sales of agricultural produce are also expected
to add to farm income.
6.04      Small tenant farmers are particularly favored by dairy development
as tenancy agreements normally provide for a sharing of crop income with all
livestock income going to the tenant.  Tenants therefore have a particularly
strong incentive to increase livestock production.  Project benefits are also
weighted in favor of landless laborers and marginal land owners because of the
intensive labor demand associated with milk production.  This feature of the
project enables the landless and small farmers who own cattle to utilize sur-
plus family labor for milk production; it also means a rapid expansion in the
demand for hired labor by larger farmers who move towards dairy development.
The labor requirement for milk production from improved animals at the farm
level approximates one man day for each 6 to 8 liters of milk produced, thus
the daily incremental milk production of the project requires an incremental
750,000 man days of work each day.
Supporting Investments
6.05      A major technical feature of the project is the provision made for
the widespread use of Al services to village cattle and buffalo. At present
about 1.5 TDN units of feed energy are required by the average Indian cow to
produce one liter of milk. With improved quality stock, conversion efficien-
cies of the order of 3 liters per TDN feed unit can be anticipated. In
evaluating the large economic advantage of improving local cows for dairy
production it is necessary to recall that the primary function of cattle in
village life is to provide draft power. The acceptance by farmers of cross-
breeding depends greatly on their perception of the draft capacity of the
crossbred bullocks thereby produced. The evidence now available in many
states indicates that crossbred bullock are adequate draft animals and that
farmers readily accept a dairy technology based upon crossbreeding cattle.



- 36 -
6.06      The recent applied research program of NDDB on milk production,
processing and marketing has shown substantial benefits to Indian society;
additional NDDB research proposals are well conceived and planned investiga-
tions shows promise of producing very high returns. Justification for an
extension of training facilities, essential to project implementation, resides
in the high economic and social benefits the project would provide and which
are dependent on this training.
6.07      Investment in the lamination of packaging material for sterile milk
have been subject to intensive study by Tetrapak International and IDC. These
two organizations plan to form a joint venture with a 20:80 shareholding to
implement the proposal. The feasibility study for this lamination plant,
shows a financial rate of return estimated at 12%, together with very large
savings in foreign exchange otherwise required for imported packaging material.
As a nonprofit oriented service agency, IDC's pricing policies are not aimed at
high financial rates of return on investments. Accordingly, IDC investments
in rail tankers and milk product storage are expected to return the oppor-
tunity cost of IDC's financial resources. These investments are an integral
part of the milk distribution system and are incorporated in the overall
economic analysis.
Economic Rate of Return
6.11      Although milk is a non-t.raded international commodity, skim milk
powder (SMP) and butter oil (BO) can be used to reconstitute a milk substitute
which, if blended with fresh milk at a ratio of 30% milk product to 70% fresh
milk, is acceptable in most markets. Milk powder and butter oil are inter-
nationally traded products whose prices show very large variations depending
upon current surplus stocks in North America and the EEC. Because of these
price variations, the establishment of an economic price for reconstituted
milk is particularly difficult. Since the peak prices of 1972, trends in the
export prices of SMP and BO have been downward, and long-term predictions
made by FAQ indicate a blend cif price of SMP and BO equivalent to about
US$1,200 per ton. With local wharf charges, transportation, storage and re-
combination, the equivalent economic price of reconstituted milk approximates
Rs 1.4 per liter for 4.5% to 5% fat milk. This price is equivalent to the
present domestic farmgate price of milk. Domestic production costs of milk,
due mainly to cattle feed, approximate 50% of milk sales and their economic
cost, is estimated to be 25% of the economic price of milk sales (Annex 7).
The life of the project is assessed at 20 years, the average lifetime of
the assets created in the processing plants. Residual values for the plants,
and the increased asset value of the improved quality of the national cow herd
have been disregarded in the economic analysis. The cost stream of the project
is made up by the actual investment costs of the project, net of duties and
taxes, and by the incremental operating costs associated with processing and
marketing milk. In assessing economic operating costs, domestic costs have
been corrected by the Standard Conversion Factor of 0.75 1/.  The project
benefit stream is made up by the net economic value of milk produced, esti-
mated at 80% of its domestic farmgate price (Annex 7). The resulting cost
1/   World Bank Group Calculation.



- 37 -
and benefit streams are then as follows and result in an economic rate of
return of 25%:
-------------------------------- Y e a r s ----------------------------
0    1    2      3       4      5        6         7      8  -  20
(Rs M)
Costs
Project
investment
cost /a      1.8 128.3 435.5 801.9 757.5   439.4   210.4    90.5    0           0
Incremental
operating
cost /b       -   33.0 142.5 349.5 582.7   787.5   904.5   945.0  945.0  945.0
Benefits
Incremental
milk income  -   12.4  88.5 296.6 633.5  1107.9  1568.9  1986.1 1986.1 1986.1
/a   Total costs less duties and taxes.
/b   Total operation costs of the unions and federations, less cost of raw
material and taxes, multiplied by the SCF of 0.75.
/c   Based on incremental milk production per day (4.04) times 365 days per
year times the economic price of milk (6.11).
6.12      Although not included in the project benefit stream, the net economic
value of incremental crop output arising from dairy development could add about
Rs 1,400 M to project benefits each year. Details are provided in Table 4.2.
6.13      A sensitivity analysis to test the impact of changes in costs, in
the economic price of milk and in delays in initiation of the benefit stream
produced the following results:
Percentage              Percentage
Cost/Benefit Item            Change       ERR         Change          ERR
All as scheduled                  -         24.7
Project investment costs         +10        22.4         +20             20.7
Project investment costs         -10        26.3
Incremental operating costs    +10          21.3         +20             18.4
Incremental milk income          - 5        21.7         -10             19.2
Delay of benefits              (1 year)    16.9
Project Risks
6.14      The risks involved in this project are not great.  The considerable
experience now accumulated with dairy development in India using the Amul
model demonstrates that projects of this nature work well and that benefits
to participants are high. Demand for milk exceeds available supplies and



- 38 -
markets for the project output are assured. What risks there are relate
mostly to administrative delays in establishing, financing, and operating the
various project organizations, thereby delaying the initial growth rate of
project benefits. The assumptions made in regard to project phasing, costs,
yields and commodity prices are based on recent experience of ongoing dairy
projects and are realistic. Measures to coordinate, monitor and expedite all
phases of implementation have been discussed with GOI, NDDB, IDC and state
governments. The risks not covered by the steps taken are no greater than can
normally be expected with operations of this type, and are acceptable in view
of the benefits which would accrue to a large number of landless small farmers,
and to the economy as a whole.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI and/or IDC
as appropriate on the following matters:
(a) annual work programs under the project would be reviewed
with IDA (2.03);
(b) DCS participating under the project would be organized
and registered according to bylaws based on the Amul
model (2.05);
(c) GOI would make available necessary funds for the ex-
panded research program and additional training facil-
ities necessary for training the nucleus staff of the
participating federations, unions and DCS (2.17);
(d) Technical Assistance consultants for NDDB and IDC would
be engaged on TOR and other terms and conditions accept-
able to IDA (2.18);
(e) GOI would make funds available to IDC under a subsidiary
loan agreement, the terms of which would be acceptable to
IDA (2.23);
(f) disbursement documents not submitted to IDA with withdrawal
application forms would be retained by IDC, union/federation
or institution concerned, certified by NDDB or other con-
sulting engineers acceptable to IDA, audited by IDC's
statutory auditors and made available to IDA supervision
missions (2.27);
(g) IDC would apply the subproject criteria, agreed during
negotiations, to every loan application covered under
this project (3.09);



- 39 -
(h) IDC would monitor the progress of subprojects at least
twice a year, supported periodically by IDA supervision
missions (3.10);
(i) first five subprojects appraised by IDC would be for-
warded to IDA prior to IDC approval; subsequently each
subproject would be forwarded to IDA for review after
IDC approval (3.10);
(j) submission to IDA, periodically, of copies of annual
work programs and budgets, quarterly progress reports
and annual audited accounts and reports (3.15);
(k) independent audits of IDC would continue to be satis-
factory to IDA (3.16);
(1) audited accounts and reports of participating unions
and federations would be submitted annually to IDC
and made available for IDA review as deemed necessary
by IDA (3.16);
(m)  IDC's Project Evaluation Division would be responsible
for the preparation of quarterly progress reports and
the Project Completion Report to be submitted to IDA
(3.17); and
(n) IDC's appraisal of every subproject would include a
careful review of the market study presented to IDC
in the subproject feasibility study (5.09).
7.02      The condition of Credit Effectiveness would be:  signing of a sub-
sidiary loan agreement between GOI and IDC satisfactory to IDA (2.23).
7.03      It is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of
US$1.0 M be made available for expenditures after January 1, 1978 incurred
for training and technical assistance services (2.17).
7.04      With these assurances the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$150 M.






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Proforma Agreement
Between IDC and State Government
We refer to the above Project which will be implemented by the
Government of India, State Governments, Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC),
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), and milk producers' cooperatives
with the assistance from the International Development Association (IDA)
in various parts of India, including                       districts of the
State of                     , hereinafter called the Project Area.
In order to avail itself of the benefits under the Project and
to assist IDC in complying with the various covenants in the Project
Agreement between IDA and IDC, which may be modified from time to time,
State Government hereby undertakes:
1.   To perform all such functions as are assigned to it in the
Appraisal Report prepared by IDC for each particular sub-
project;
2.   To take necessary action, including the amendments to the
State Cooperatives Act and issuance of State notifications,
to facilitate the formation of dairy cooperative societies,
district cooperative milk producers' unions, and federations
of such unions in the Project Area, hereinafter called
"Cooperative institutions", and to enable them to function
in accordance with bylaws which are satisfactory to IDC and
IDA; model bylaws appropriate for this purpose are attached;
3.   by                        or such later date as the IDC may
otherwise agree, transfer or lease to the cooperative insti-
tutions, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDC and
IDA, such dairy plant, chilling facilities and other assets
essential to adequate functioning of the project, belonging
to the State Government and/or allied agencies and located
in the Project Area, as described in the Schedule to this
letter;
4.   to provide the cooperative institutions with the land
required for the project and assist providing electricity,
water, effluent control and other facilities within the
control of the State Government, as may be required for
the Project;



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
5.   to permit the cooperative institutions full freedom to
implement the subproject agreed upon, to create posts, to
recruit personnel and to fix their compensation which they
deem appropriate, for the carrying out of the Project;
6.   not to take any action to restrict the power of the coopera-
tive institutions to set, in accordance with sound economic
and financial practices, the price for their products, the
price paid for milk collected from their members and the
charges to be paid by their members for services rendered
to them by the cooperative institutions in respect of their
selling price policies;
7.   to transfer to the cooperative institutions the responsi-
bility for provision of such services (for example arti-
ficial insemination, vaccination) and cooperative dairying
promotional activities in the Project Area as described in
the IDC Appraisal Report. The transfer of this responsi-
bility shall be phased and organized in a manner so as to
ensure that such services and activities in the Project
Area are not disrupted during the course of implementation
of the Project;
8.   to permit the cooperative institutions to retain at their
discretion and on their terms and conditions of employment,
the services of the personnel who are employees of the
State Government milk plant, chilling facilities and
other assets transferred to them under paragraph 3 above;
9.   to take all action which shall be necessary the cooperative
institutions to carry out their day-to-day functions and
shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with such function-
ing; and
10.   to take all action which shall be necessary to enable in
collaboration with IDC and NDDB, to ensure the speedy
formation and efficient functioning of the cooperative
institutions in order to achieve the successful implemen-
tation of the Project.
not to promote or permit any activity or organization in the
project area which will be detrimental to or inconsistent with
the objectives of the agreed dairy subproject.
12.   to undertake reorganization and/or winding up of defunct or
inactive milk cooperatives in the milkshed to the extent
necessary to promote and to nourish Amul Pattern Cooperatives.
13.   to arrange for continuous and concurrent audit of the Primary
Cc..perative Societies, District Unions and Cluster Federations
once every three months.



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
In consideration of the State Governments' undertaking of the above,
IDC hereby agrees to perform all such functions as are assigned to it in the
Project Agreement and the Staff Appraisal Report and which may be modified
from time to time with the consent of GOI, IDA and IDC.
Yours sincerely,
Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
Authorized Representative



SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Criteria for IDC Appraisal of Subproject
(To be finalized during negotiations)
1.   Subproject objectives to be in keeping with Development
Credit Agreement between GOI and IDA, project agreement
between IDC and IDA and subsidiary loan agreement between
IDC and GOI.
Uniform Approach
2.   Willingness of the state government and/or existing fed-
eration to enter into an agreement with IDC defining sub-
project objective organization, financing and mutual
rights and responsibilities.
3.   Feasibility study to be prepared on the initiative of
state governments and/or existing federations following
an outline agreed with IDC and submitted to IDC for
appraisal in such form, content and detail as pre-
scribed by IDC and agreed with IDA.
4.   Cooperative bylaws governing the client regarding capital
structure and borrowing powers to be deemed adequate by IDC
for successful project implementation.
Management of Subprojects
5.   Appointment, qualifications, TOR and terms and conditions
of employment of client's chief executive to be acceptable
to IDC.
6.   Client's staff training programs to be satisfactory to IDC.
7.   Continuity of client's senior executive staff to be assured
for minimum of three years.
Viability of the Subprojects
8.   Client to have complete freedom to decide milk procurement
and product pricing policy to ensure financial viability
of the subproject.
9.   Client's other activities not to be such as to inhibit
successful implementation of the subproject proposed.



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
Technical Aspects
10.   Technical and effluent treatment procedures to follow
national standards and all construction to be super-
vised by consulting engineers acceptable to IDC.
11.   Subproject to be technically, organizationally, man-
agerially, commercially and financially feasible.
12.   Subproject implementation schedule submitted to IDC
to be in such detail as to enable close monitoring of
the project both by the client and IDC.
Financial Criteria
13.   Financing plan, based upon the findings of the sub-
project feasibility study to include the arrangements
for working capital requirements and deficit financing,
to be satisfactory to IDC, and cash flow projections
should permit repayment of loan to be completed within
15 years after the grace period.
14.   Average rate of return on investment capital employed
in the union and/or federation to be above 12% when
measured over the life of the subproject and the
assets created.
15.   Assets offered as security for the loans to be otherwise
unencumbered until loan repayment has been completed.
IDA Appraisals and Reviews
16.   IDC's appraisal of the first five loans to be subject
to IDA's approval. All subsequent subprojects, to be
subject to IDA review prior to IDA disbursement.
17.   Subproject monitoring arrangements to including furnish-
ing of requested information to and periodical physical
supervision by IDC and IDA missions.



ANNEX 1
PROJECT TABLES
Table
1.1       IDC Income and Expenditures
1.2       IDC Loans Outstanding
1.3       IDC Summarized Balance Sheets
1.4       IDC Organization Chart
2.1       Project Costs
2.2       DCS and Union Establishment Costs
2.3       Field Service and AI Establishment Costs
2.4.1     Investment in Dairy Plants
2.4.2     Investment Assumptions for Composite Plant
2.4.3     Phasing of Dairy Plant Investment
2.5.1     Cost of Distribution Systems
2.5.2     Investment Phasing in Distribution Systems
2.6       IDC and NDDB Investments
3.1       DCS Production and Cash Flow
3.2       Financial Analysis Crossbred Cow Performance
4.1       Crop Budgets
4.2       Project Output
5.1       Phasing of Milk Union Investment Costs
5.2       Union Income and Operating Costs
5.3       Union Cash Flow
5.4       Union Organization Chart
6.1       IDC Cash Flow



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Indian Dairy Corporation
Summarized Income and Expenditure Accounts, 1973/74 to 1976/77
(Rs. '000)
1973-74      1974-75       1975-76        1976-77
INCOME
Interest earned on:
(i) Loans                                   7,481        12,015        16,569         24,901
(ii) Deposlts                                2,016           345           114          6,374
Net Sale of WFP gift
commodities 1/                             58,540        78,289        76,601        145,310
Other income                                      15            12           171            720
Total 2/          68,052        90,661        93,455        177,305
EXPENSES
Crants 3/                                    42,711        22,460        37,824          37,200
Development expenses 4/                          641        2,874         1,979           2,870
Personnel, office and administration             552           524        1,228           1,553
Storage and transportation 5/                 2,638         4,571         7,888          8,356
Transfer to Operation Flood Fund 6/          11,901        47,757        27,519          95,173
Depreciation                                      98          103            475          1,031
Interest payments                                 81        1,044            859            164
Net income carried forward                    9,430        11,327        15,682          30,953
Total             68,052        90,661        93,455        177,305
1/ Sale proceeds less value payable to COI
2/ Dairy equipment activity and Skim Milk Powder Pool A/C are on no-profit, no-loss basis and
do not appear in this summary.
3/ To states and dairy institutions as start-up funds for construction and expansion of milk
handling facilities and improvement of milch animals.                                                           z 
4/ Project planning, promotion and establishment of infrastructure paid by IDC.                                    a 
5/Storage and transportation of milk products and dairy equipment.                                                rDX
6/ The difference of net receipts of SMP (international value due to GOI deducted) and disburse-
ments including grants and loans is transferred to Operation Flood Fund.
January 13, 1978
ASPAT)



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Indian Dairy Corporation
Institution-wise Distribution of Loans and Grants (March 1977)
(Rs. '000)
Loan amount
State/Institution                       Grant         Loan        Total         repAid          Overdue
A. Expansion and construction of handling
facilities; milk production enhancement
1  Government of Andhra Pradesh                      6,345       14,805       21,149           808
2 Ilaryana Dairy Development Corporation             6,624       15,456       22,080         1,322
3  Bihar State Dairy Corporation                     8,923       20,820       29,743         1,012             _
4  Government of Gujarat                            26,501       61,836       88,337         9,230              -
5  Government of Maharashtra                        18,740       43,727       62,467         2,370             -
6 Jalgaon Jilha Sahakari Dudh
Vikas Federation Limited                          8,640       20,160       28,800           879              _
7  Punjab Dairy Development Corporation              7,329       17,101       24,430           988
8  Government of Rajasthan                           8,894       20,752       29,646         1,433
9  Tamil Nadu Dairy Development Corporation         13,972       32,601       46,573         2,504              -
10 Pradeslhik Cooperative Dairy Federation
Limited (UP)                                      9,642       22,498      '32,140           823           2,094 1/
11 Rajasth'n State Dairy Corporation                   754        1,759        2,512           -                _
12 Government of West Bengal                        24,208       56,487       BO,695         4,279
13 Mother Dairy, Delhi                              14,739       34,487       49,129           990
14 Delhi Milk Scheme                                 2,700          -          2,700           -
Total:     158,010       362,392      520,402        26,638            2,094
17 Repaid In May 1977.                                                                                                  X4X
o4%



Loan amount
State/Institution                       Grant         Loan        Total          repaid         Overdue
B. Development of milk animals
1  Government of Andhra Pradesh                        780          -            780           -
2  Indian Datonators, Hyderabad (IDLCH)              1,280          -          1,280           _
3  Haryana Dairy Development Corporation             1,015          -          2,015           _
4  Bihar State Dairy Corporation                       260          -            250           -
5  Institute of Agriculture, Anand (Gujarat)         1,85.8         -          1,858           _
6 National Dairy Development Board
(Gujarat)                                         2,000          -          2,000           -
7  Bhartiya Agro-Industries (Maharashtra)            4,000                     4,000           -
8  Punjab Dairy Development Corporation              1,072          -          1,072           _
9  Government of Rajasthan                           1,529          -          1,529           -
10 Government of Tamil Nadu                          1,088          -          1,088           -
11 United Planters Association (Tamil Nadu)          1,551          -          1,551           -
12 Government of Uttar Pradesh                       1,274          -          1,274           -
13 Literacy House, Lucknow                           1,122          -          1,122           -
14 Government of West Bengal                           408          -            408           -
15 Indian Institute of Technology,
Kharagpur (West Bengal)                             600          -            600           _
Total:       19,837          -         19.   37
C. Development of rural milk marketing
organizations
10 Unions in 10 States                              99.830          -         99,830           -                -
Grand Total:      177,946      362,391      540,338        26,638            2,094
January 16, 1978                                                                                                            |
ASPAD                                                                                                                       
*                                                     b: .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Indian Dairy Corporation
Summarized Balance Sheets 1973-74 to 1976-77
(Rs. '000)
3-31-74       3-31-75        3-31-76        3-31-77
ASSETS
Fixed assets and investments             844            778         17,531         23,854
Current assets                        88,516         67,082         73,196        269,751
Loans                                153,724        202,673        268,971        336,506
Advance payments                      27,330         90,438         63,824         20,297
Customs account l/                    21,011         34,637         43,756         30,719
Total       291,425        395,608        467,278        681,127
LIABILITIES
Own Capital
Share capital - authorized and
issued                             10,000         10,000         10,000         10,000
Reserves and surplus                  17,993         29,321         45,003         75,957
Operation Flood Fund                  57,406        105,162        132,682        227 854
Other funds                            8,638          8,144          7,978          9,084
Liabilities
Skim Milk Powder Pool A/C              7,977          6,233          8,734          5,452
International grants, payable
to GOI 2/       .                 102,699        137,523        174,629        249,575
Other current liabilities and
provisions                         35,164         29,861         34,164         64,970
Unsecured advances 3/                 21,284         29,235         38,235         38,235
Bank loans                            30,264         40,128        15,853             - _   _
Total       291,425        395,608        467,278        681,127
1/ Customs duties and clearance charges forgrant commodlties are payable by GOI, but IDC
has to pay them first, and then get a refund grant from GOI.
2/ An application is being considered by GOI not to recover these unpaid funds.
3/ Customs duty on gift commodities.



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
India Dairy Corporation
Suggested Organization Structure
BOARD OF DIRECTORS]
HON. CHAfRMAN
PROJECT EVALUATION
I_                          AND
INTERNAL AUDIT
MANAGING DIRECTOR |
| HIE  IACA             PROJECT               DIVISION            DIVISION    ||MANAGERSOF   h     I    DIVIsfoN   I
|AD I         S       E   MANAGER          MAIIAGER              MANAGER     REIOAOFICS                MANAGER
BURSEMENT                               MILK ENHANCE-       MOVEMENT                                 PERSONNEL
AND               APPRAISAL    _       MENT AND             AND             REGIONAL                 AND
COLLECTION    1               ~~~~~~PROCUREMENT    STORAGE           OFFICES             ADMINISTRATION
l                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION 1
FIAND|  ANDC            PROJECTCALCUTTA j
AND        L      MONITORING                                                  RGO
ACCOUNTS  AND                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- DELHI _
REGION
- MADRAS
REGION
World Bank - 18837
P. S



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PPOJECT
TR-s M)
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85    Total
DCS Equipment                          -         2.5       8.7      17.1      18.4     12.4        3.1       -         62.2
Union Al and Services                  -        10.8      35.0      51.8      34.2       8.1       1.1       -        141.0
DCS and Union Establishment Cost
DCS Working Capital                  -         1.1       4.1       7.9       8.6       5.7       1.4       -         28.8
DCS Training                         -         5.2      18.2      35.8     38.3      26.0       6.5       -         130.0
DCS Organization                     -        11.8      31.4      49.0     38.3      26.0       6.5        -       163.0
Union Training                       -        10.9      24.5      27.4       5.3      0.6         -        -         69.2
Working Capital for Plants           -         2.0       7.0      15.0     20.0      21.0      14.0      6.0        85.0
Planning and Consultancies           -         7.3      17.7      23.5     13.4       9.1       4.5       -         75.5
Subtotal                           -       38.3    102.9    158.6    124.4         88.4      32.9      6.0       551.5
Processing                             -        32.0    192.0    380.0    306.0        90.0        -        -      1,000.0
Distribution                           -          -       28.9      86.5    144.3    144.3    115.4    57.7          577.1
Supporting Investments
IDC Lamination                       -        15.6      7.9       1.8        -         -         -        -         25.3
Storage                            -         0.5      1.5       1.3        -                   -        -          3.3
Rail Trawlers                      -       12.8      20.0      13.6       9.6                 4.0       -         60.0
NDDB Training Centers               2.0        9.2      12.0       3.0       -         -         -        -         26.2
Applied Research                   -         5.3      3.4       4.2       4.5       5.6        -        -         23.0
Technical Assistance                 -         3.9      4.7       5.6       4.7       3T9       3.0      1.3        27.1
Subtotal                            2.0      47.3      49.5      29.5      18.8       9.5       7.0      1.3       164.9
Total Base Cost                       2.0      130.9    417.0    723.5    646.1    352.7    159.5    65.0    2,496.7
Contingencies                        -         9.2     58.4    151.9    180.9    127.0         70.2    33.8        631.4
Total Cost                            2.0      140.1    475.4    875.4    827.0    479.7    229.7    98.8    3,128.1
ASPAD
April 1978
30
M. I-



'ANNEX I
Table 2.2
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
DCS and Union Establishment Costs - Project Total
1977/78             1978/79   1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   Total
No. of DCS   formed                                                800      2,800    5,500    5,900    4,000    1,000          -    20,000
No. of Unions formed                                                10         20        20       -         -         -         -        50
DCS Equipment (Rs 3110/DSC)V/                                       2.5       8.7      17.1      18.4      12.4      12.4     3.1      62.2
2/'h  - --~~~-..--------                                                                      
Union Al and Servicea -
Equipment                                                        2.4       12.2      22.2      20.6       6,5       1,1      -       65,1
Civil Works                                                      3.9        7.8       7.8        -         -        -        -       Lf,s
Vehicles                                                         4.3       12.9      17.2       8.6        -         -       *       43.0
Bull*                                                            2.0        2.1       4.6       5.0       1.6       -        _       13.5
Subtotal                                                        10.8       35.0      51.8      34.2      8,1       1.1       -     141.1
DCS and Union Establishment Cost
DCS Working Capital 3/            (Ra 1440/DCS)                  1.1        4.1       7.9       8.6       5.7      1.4       -       28.8
DCS Training (Staff) 4/           (Rs 6500 DCS)                  5,2       18.2      35.8      38.3     26.0       6.5       -     130.0
Union Training (Stafff) 5/        (Ra 924,000/Union)             8.6       17.6      18.2       1.2       0.6       -        _       46.2
(Civil Works) 6/        (Rs 460,000/Union)             2.3        6,9       9.2       4.6        -        -        -       23.0
DCS Organization (Staff) 7/       (Rs 6500/DCS)                  5.2       18.2      35.8      38.3      26.0      6.5       -     130.0
(Vehicles) 87       (RI  660.000/union)            6.6       13.2      13.2        -        -         -        -      33.0
Union Working Capital 9/          (Rs 1.7 million/Union)         2.0        7.0      15.0      20.0     21.0      14.0      6.0      85.0
Planning and Consultancies 10/  (Ra 1.51 million/Union)          7.3       17.7      23.5      13.4      9.1       4.5       -       75.5
Subtotal                                                        38,3      102.9    158.6    124,4       88.4      32.9      6.0    551.5
Incurred in the year of DCS formation and composed of the following items: Milk testing equipment             Rs 1,000/kit   1,000
Insaemintion crate            Rs 1,000/unit  1,000
Veterinary first aid kit    Rs   280/kit        280
Office furniture 4 fixtures Rs   330            330
Stationary & Miscellaneous  Rs   500            500
2/ See Table 5.1.
3/   DCS   permanent working capital ix estimated at 3 days' incremental turnover valued at Rs 1.50 per liter; tbus Rs 675 in
the first year, third year; totalling Rs 1440/DCS
4/ Incurred in the year of DCS formation and composed of the following items:
Election and training of DCS management co-ittee 10 personh/DCSal week  Es 200/week             2,000
Recruitment and training of DCS staff                  3 persons/DCS/2 months  Rs 500/month  3,000
Farmers visit to Amul 20 persons x3 day. Rs 150/couple                                         1 500
5/   Incurred in the year of Union formtion and composed of the following item:
Recruitment an4 Training of                                                     Cost/Union
Spearhead teams                     70 people for 6 months at Rs 3L700             714,000
Managemnt staff                     10 people for 6 months at Rs 2,000             120,000
Processing and Marketing staff    10 people for 3 months at Rs 2,000                60,000
Training Staff                       5 people for 3 months at Rs 2,000              30,000
924,000
6/   460 sq. meters of office space at Rs 100- Bs 460,000/uLion
7/ 5 man months/DCS formed at Rs 1300- Rs 6500/DCS
8/ 10 jeeps/Union at Rs 66,000 each - Rs 660,000/union formed.
9/ Union's permanent working capital requirement is estimated at one weeks's turnover of the dairy plants
(incrementally after year 1, tbus at:
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 5
RaO0O    200     300     500    400        300
10/ Based on the following asoumptions per Union:
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Total
Identification of milk shed, data collection, planning, feasibility   
study                                                                    12         300       -          -        -        300
Organization, installation of union/federation headquarters               12         200      100         -        -        300
Consultant's services                                                     32         220      230        230      230       910
Sub-Total                                                                           72 0     33-0       Y       230      1,510
ASPAD
March 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 2.3
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Union Field Service and rstahlishment Costs
(Rs 000)
I.  Model Union                                      Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Total
A.  Bulls                                            20      170        80       -         270
B. AI Equipment
Alternative 1: Liquid Semen (75%)
Field Equipment                           -           60      -         -          60
Alternative 2: Frozen Semen (25%)
Nitrogen Plant and Tanks                   -      1,500       -         -       1,500
Field Equipment                           400       420       400       -       1,220
Subtotal                                400    1,920        400       -       1,720
Weighted Average of Alternatives          100       525       100        -        725
C. Other Equipment
for mobile veterinary units                    2         3         3         1         9
for DCS   Rs 1,100/DCS                        88       132       165        55      440
office equipment   Rs 77,000/Union            33        44       -                    77
equipment for bull farm                       20        30       -         -          50
Subtotal                                143-      209       168        56       576
D.  Vehicles                                       430       430       -                   860
E. Civil Works
Veterinary Center and Garage                 330       -         -         -         330
Bull Shed                                     60       -         -         -          60.
Subtotal                                390       -         -         -         390
Total                                 1,083    1,334        348        56    2,821
II.  Total Projects Phasing                     78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82   82/83   83/84           Total
Equipment
lOx                                   2,430    7,340    2,680         560      -        -
20x                                     -       4,860   14,680    5,360   1,120         -
20x                                     -         -       4,860   1468O   5,360   1,120
2,430   12,200   22,220   20,600   6,480   1,120    65,050
Civil Works                             3,900    7,800    7,800         -        -        -       19,500
Vehicles                                4,300   12,900   17,200    8,600         -        -       43,000
___ls                                      200    2,100    4,600    5,000   1,600         -       13,500
Total                         10,830   35,000   51,820   34,300   8,080   1,120   141,050
ASPAD
March 1978



ANNEX  1
Table 2.4.1
INDIA
INVESTMENT PROJECTIONS
New Feeder Balancing Dairy 150,000/p.d.
New FBD. 150,000
Investment items                             Capacity                  Cost    Foreign
or                  '00~       exchange
Total Units                        '000 Rs.
Dairy Process Equipments
Milk reception and can washing                   150,000 l/d milk operation            342         __
Milk pasteurization, Chilling,
recombination, etc.                             150,000 l/d milk processing          3420       1495
Milk storage tanks & silos                       225,000 L                            1795         170
Cream handling & butter making equipment         12,000 l/d cream and 6 T/d           2050        540
butter handling
Milk condensing & spray drying plant             10 T/d milk powder                   5900       1000
Sour milk handling & ghee making equipment    7,500 l/d sour milk                      635         60
3 T/d ghee making
SS pipes & Fittings                              150,000 l/d milk processing          1100        730
Laboratory equipments                            150,000 l/d milk processing           330        160
Miscellaneous equipments (weigh bridge           150,000 l/d milk processing           550         --
C.I.P etc.)
Installation at 15% (incl. C.I.F. service                 15%                        2418          --
lines & installation)
Sub-total                                                    18540        4155
Utilities
Refrigeration equipments                         150,000 l/d milk processing          1600
Steam raising equipments                                   "                         1750
Water & air supply equipments                              "                           100
Electricals, HT lines, sub-station switchgear                                          800
Workship equipments                              1 set                                  50
Installation at 15%                                      15%                          645
Sub-total                                                      4945
Civil work
Production block                                 3200 H2                             2240
Service block                                    800 M2                               320
Workers' Amenities & Admn. Block                 500 M2                                300
Storage & godown block                           1220 M2                              540
Compound wall                                    1140 M2                               228
Road RCC/Asphalt                                 7000 M2                              580
Effluent treatment plant                         1 set                                 800
Internal Electrification & Telephones            1 set                                500
Miscellaneous items                              -                                     887
Sub-total                                                       6395
Transportation Equipments
Tnsulated road milk tankers                      6 x 13000 L                         3000         120
Jeep and car                                     I    x+1                             150
Alluminium cans                                  4500 x 40 L                          1350
Garage equipments                                1 set                                  50
Sub-total                                                          4550
Contingencies at 10%                                                                  2988
Total investment (rounded off value)                                                             4275
37500
Cost (Rs) per litre of milk handling                                                   250
ASPAD
April 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 2.4.2
INDLA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Investment Assumptions for Composite Model Plant of a Union
A. Average Construction Costs for a Typical 150,000 lpd Dairy Plant
(to the nearest half million rupees)
Plant Type        Processing            Liquid Milk
New  Expansion       New   Expansion
Equipment       26.5    15.5         13.0      10.0
Civil Works      7.0      3.0          5.5      1.0
Vehicles         4.0      4.0          4.0      4.0
37.5    22.5         22.5      15.0
B.  Average Construction Costs for a Typical Dairy Plant in Rs/Liter of
Capacity Created
(to the nearest 5 Rs/liter or capacity)
Plant Type        Processing           Liquid Milk
New  Expansion       New   Expansion
Equipment      180     105           90        70
Civil Works    45       20           35         5
Vehicles        25      25           25        25
250     150          150       100
Z in
Total Program  JO       20           30        20
C.  Investment Cost of Composite Model Plant for Project (Rs/liter)
Platnt Type       Processing           Liquid Milk
Chilling
New  Expansion       New   Expansion   Dairies   Plants  1/  Total
Equipment       54   +  21    +      27   +   14 -         116   +   19      -   135
Civil Works    13.5 +   4    +       10.5 +    1   -        29   +   11      -    40
Vehicles         7.5+   5    +        7.5+    5   '         25   +                25
75   +  30    +      45   +   20   -      170        30          200
D.  Phasing Construction of the Composite Mddel (100,000 liters capacity created)
(Rs million)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Total
Equipment               -           6.0         7.5       13.5
Civil Works            2.0          2.0          -         4.0
Vehicles                -           1.0         1.5        2.5
2.0         9.0         9.0        20.0
1/ 15,000 liters at Rs 200/liter, 2/3 - equipment; 1/3 - civil works



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Phasing of Dairy Plant Investment
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
Milk Procurement from the Project (000 lpd)                  100      600    1,800   3,600   5,400   6,900   8,000
at Peak Season (x 1 1/3)                                    100      800    2,400   4,800   7,200   9,200  11,000
Annual Incremental Processing Requirement
to be met by Project                                                        1,600   2,400   1,000
Phasing of Costs as Net Processing Requirements (Rs 000,000)                                                 Total Cost
Equipment:  16 plants by 80/81                                       96      120                                216
+24 plants by 81/82                                               144      180                       324
10 plants by 82/83                                                         60      75               135
96      264      240      75               675
Civil Works                                                 32       32                                          64
48       48                                 96
20      20                        40
32      TO        68      20                       200
Vehicles                                                             16        24                                40
24      36                        60
10      15               25
Y6-      48       46       15              125
Totalf
32     192       380     306       90            1,000
a n
ASPAD
February 1978
Is'  I



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Summary of the Cost of Milk Distribution Systems
Ty))E' of distribution          Bulk Vending   Bottling       Sachet       Aseptic    Manual Bulk  Can Vending
B>.X:::-                         100,000 L/D. 100,000 L/D. 100,000 L/D. 100,000 L/D. 5Vedng    20,000 L/D.
1.  Cost of equipment/            7,908,600     7,090,200   6,743,800   18,967,000    1,417,000       596,380
Plant including service
2.  Cost of civil work            3,150,000     3,309,800   3,165,800    1,536,000
3. Cost of distribution
vans                       3,337,200      4,595,400   4,284,000            --    2,327,800
4.  Cost of communication
system                         600,000             --          --            --            --          --
Cost per liter of capacity          160           150          145          230            75          30
Cost of distribution
system per liter
ASPAD
April 1978
(D >
MF
I. 



INDIA
NATIOI1L IDIRY PROJECT
Investment Phasing in Distribution System
nt Phasing of Salades e ePnd tyJ1x-i1l    I '000 lit.s/day) ,1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85                     Total
Sales in         it  and  m   Itie                                                  6oo        800      1,000      1,700      2,600       3,500      4,100      4,800
Incremental distribution requirement                                                  _          -        200        700        900         900        600        700          4,000
Phasing of incremental distribution capacity in intermediate and small cities ,/
10 Unions                                                                                              200        200        200         200
20 Unions                                                                                                         400         400        400        400
20 Unions                                                                                                                     400        400        400        400
070   gmiTM    T5                               o O 1                4,ooo
Phasing of tetrapack capacity to serve the national milkgrid ]/                                            25         75         125        125        100         50            500
II. Breakdown of Incremental Capacity by Mode of Distribution  ('000 liters)
Bullk-vending units                                                                                     60        180         300        300        240        120           1,200
Retail milk dispensers                                                                                  60        180         300        300        240        120           1,200
Sachets                                                                                                 40        120        200         200        160         80             800
Cans                                                                                                    40        120        200         200        160         80             800
Tetrapacks                                                                                              25         75         125        125        100         ,0             500
III   Cost of Distribution Systemsa. Disbursement Cateories (Rs. '000
Equipment                                      aspital Cost rupees/  er)
Bulk-vending units                   80                                                              4,800     14,400     24,00o      24,000     19,200      9,600          96,000
Retail milk dispensers               30                                                              1,800      5,400      9,000       9,000      7,200      3,600          36,ooo
Sacheta                              65                                                              2,600      7,800      13,000     13,000     10,400      5,200          52,000
Cans                                 20                                                                8QO      2     400   4,000      4,000      3,200      1,600          16,000
Tetrapacks                          180                                                              4                    22 500      22 500     18 000      9,00           90 000
Subtotal                                                                                              5                73                      i 7       29,000
Civil Works
Bulk-vending units                   30                                                              1,800      5,400       9,000      9,000      7,200       3,600         36,(oo
Sachets                              30                                                              1,200      3,600       6,oOO      6,000      4,800      2,400          24,000
Tetrapacks                           15                                                                400      1,100       1 900     4.90(       1,500        800           7 600
Subtotal                                                                                          3,400     10,100      i6,        16,900     13,500      T60
Vehicles
Bulk-vending units                   50                                                              3,000      9,0        15,000     1',000     12,000      6,ooo          60,000
Retail milk dispensers              65                                                               3,900     11,700     19,500      19,500     15,600      7,800          78,000
Sachets                             50                                                               2,000      6,000     10,000      10,000      8,000      4,000         40,000
Cans                                 30                                                              1,200      3,600      6,ooo       6,ooo      4,800      2,400         24,000
Tetrapacks                           35                                                                900      2600        404        4 400      3,500      1,700          17,500
Subtotal                                                                                         01,000 I   l        j o                                 21,900         219,500
Total Cost                                                                                       28,900     86,5    144,300    144,300    115,400      57,700         577,100
1/ The existing distribution capacity is estimated at 800,000 lpd.
2/ Based on the assumption that each Union will install local distribution systems at the rate of 20,000 liters per year through years 3-6 of its life (80,000 liters total).
3/ arketing of "long-life" tetrapack will in the main be to distant markets, e.g. the metropolitan markets and cities not in the project areas.
February 1978
ASPAD
t3d
I  >C
UlH



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
IDC and NDDB Investments
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83  83/84   84/85           Total
IDC Investments
EquipIent
Lamination Plant                                   -      14.1      6.5      1.5      -        -       _        _        22.1
Storage (20%)                                      -        .1       .3       .3      - _              -        __.7
-     14.2      6.8      1.8      -        -       -        -        22.8
Civil Works
Larination Plant                                   -        .5      1.1       .2      -        -       -        -         1.8
Storage (80%)                                      -        .4      1.2      1.0      -        -       -        -         2.6
-       .9      2.3      1.2      -        -       -        -         4.4
Vehicles (Tankers)                                    -     12.8    20.0    13.6        9.6      -      4.0       -        60.0
Incremental Staff and Fees                           -       1.0       .3       .1      -        -       -        -         1.4
Subtotal                                 -     28.9    29.4    16.7        9.6      -      4.0       _        88.6
NDDB Investments
Civil Works
Training Centers                                1.0      5.5      8.4     2.2                                          17.1
and Research                                     -        .5       -        -       -
1.0     6.0      8.4      2.2       -        -               -        17.5
Equipment                                          -       2.0       .3       .3       .3     .3       -        -         3.2
Vehicles                                            .5     1.0      1.5      .5           -        -            -         3.5
Other Staff and Materials                           .5     5.5      5.2      4.2     4.2    5.3        -        -        24.9
Subtotal                               2.0    14.5    15.4        7.2     4.5    5.6        -        -        49.2
ASPAD
March 1978                                                                                                                          r P-



ANNEX 1
Table 3.1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
DCS Production and Cash Flow
---------------------------------Years-------------------- --------------------__
1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9       10
DCS Membership Families                       90       110      140       175       175      175       175       175      175       175
Cattle
Foundation Cows         No                   78       119      143       178       180      186       186       185      154       148
Calving Rate            %                    52        55       60        60        60       60        60        60       60        60
Milk/Lactation          1                   600       750      750       750       750      750       750       750      750       750
Annual Yield            l/yr             24,500   49,300   64,600   80,ooo   81,000   84,300   84,200   84,ooo   69,300   66,600
Crossbred Cows          No                                                10        20        30       45        60       80       100
Calving Rate                                                              75        75        75       75        75       75        75
Milk/Lactation                                                         1,500    1,550    1,600    1,700    1,800    1,800    1,800
Annuel Yield            1/yr                                          11,250   23,250   36,ooo   57,375   81,000  108,000  135,000
Buffalo
Buffalo Cows            No                   85       104      117       136       136      136       136      123       1lIt      104
Calving Rate            %                    65        70        70       70        70       70        70        70       70        70
Milk/Lactation          1                   900    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100
Anr.ual Yield           1/yr             50,000   80,000   90,000  105,000  105,000  105,000   95,000   95,000   90,000   80,000
Annual Production        1/yr          - 74,500  129,300  154,600  196,000  209,300  225,300  246,600  260,000  277,300  294,600
incremental Production  1/yr              14,200   51,880   63,440   86,970  109,000  125,000  147,000  160,000  177,000  195,000
Consumption l/           1/yr             18,500   32,300   38,600   49,000   52,300   56,300   61,600   65,000   69,300   73,600
Procurement by DCS  000 1/yr              56,ooo   97,000  116,000  147,000  157,000  169,o00  185,000  195,000  208,000  221,J00
Daily                    l/d                 150       270       320      400       430      460       510      530       570      610
Income
Commission on Milk                        4.93       8.87    10.51    13.14    14.12    15.11    16.75    17.41    18.72    20.03
(Rs '000/yr)
Operating Costs
'   yOOOr
Wages                                     2.4        3.0      3.6       3.9       4.o      4.2       4.5      4.8       5.3      5.5
Rent                                       .5         .5        .7       .7      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.3       1.5
Milk Testing  /                           1.1        2.0      2.3       2.9      31        34        3.7      .29      4.2       4-5
Total                                     W75        5.5      r-Z       75                                             4.29.2  5.7  l  11.5
Dperating Surlus                            .93       3.37     3.91      5.64     6.o2      6.51     7.55      7.71     7.92      8.53
{R   OOyr)
Cash Flow
(Rs 'OOO/yr)
Source of Funds
Share Capital and
Membership                                 .99       0.22      .33      .4
(Rs 11 ea)
Equipment Grant                           3.1         -
Nlet Surplus                               .93      3.37      3.91    5.64       6.o2     6.51      7.55     7.71      7.92     8.53
Bonus from Union                                     -        -         -        -                   -       2.0       2.5      3.0
*Use o-f Funds
Milk Testing (Equipment)                  3.1        -         -       -          -        -         -        -         -        -
ionus to MembersW                          .56      2.03      2.65    3.38       3.62     3.90      4.53     5.94     6.25      6.92
Reserve Fund                              1.Z2      1.06      1.30    1.81       1.50     1.63     1.89      2.48     2.61      2.88
rther Furds                               .14        .50      0.28    0.85      0.90      0.98     1.13      1.49     1.56      1.73
I/  Approximately 0.7 1/family/day in preproject period and 1.15 1/family in year 10.
2R  Includes actual commission at 3 percent, weight/volume difference 2 percent, overflow 0.5 percent, sample milk sales
1 percent, SNF oremium 0.5 percent, local milk sales 1 percent, and retention on nozmember sales at 1 percent.
3i Rs .02 per liter.
1 Under DCS bylaws a minimum of 25 percent of the annual surplus and the full amount of share capital must be placed in a
reservt fund.  The maximum bonus allocation in 80 percent of the annual surplus after the required application to be
reserve fund and any declaration of dividend on share capital. The reserve fund is to be used to purchase Union shares
(up o 30 percent of the years application to Reserves), provide additional working capital to the DCS (equivalent to
about 7 days business), and provide for village development purposes.



ANNEX 1
Table 3.2
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOP?ENT PROJECT
Financial Analysis Cross-bred Cow Performance
Y   E   A   R   S
1         2          3          4          5         6
I.   INCOME STATEMNT
Gross Income
Milk 1/                      1,800      2,592
Manure 2/                      200       400
Total 3/                  2,000      2,992      2,992      2,992      2,992     2_992
OPERATING COSTS
Green Fodder 4/                219       438
Dry Fodder 5/                  165       131
Concentrates 6/               394        567
Veterinary Services 7/          15        50
Miscellaneous 8/                69       113      __         ___
Total                       762      1,299      1,299     1,299      1,299      L,229
Operatina Income            1,238      1,693      1,693     1,693      1,693      1,693
II.  CASH FLOW
Inflow
Funds Generated             1,238
Project Loan (95%) 9/       3,750
Borrowers' Contribution       250
Total Inflow              5,238      1,693       1,693      1,693      1,693    1
outflow
Investment                  4,000
Debt Service 10/                       1,109
Total Outflow             4.000     1.109      1.lO9      1,109      1,109      1,109
Net Cash Flow
Annual                      1,238        584       584        584        584        584
Cumulative                            1,822      2,406      2,990      3,574     4,158
III. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
F.R.R.                        31%
Debt Service Coverage         1.5
F.R.R. to Equity           > 230%
1/   Two cow herd purchased in year 1; average production about 5 liters per cow per day
for 300 lsrtation davs in year 1 and 7.2 liters per day for 500 lactation days (2 cows)
in years 2 to 6 inclusive. Calving rate 75%; milk price Rs 1.2 liter.
2/   20 carts (10 tons) at the rate of Rs 40/ton a/
3/   Value of calvas omitted. fzoa calculation. - assumod, to Qqlaal rearinp eost-
4/   14.6 tons at the rate of Rs 30 per ton based on 20 Kg/day/animal a
5/   2.18 tons at the rate of Rs 60 per ton based on 3 Kg/day/animal a/
6/ 0.54 tons at the rate of Rs 1050 per ton based on 25% of production during lactation. -
7/   Emergency visits and purchased vaccines.
-8/   Go~t4ntg meieo -t IGe   a4 - efthe-eee"t-.-
9/ Two cross-bred cows at the rate of Rs 2000 each with zero residual value at end of year 6.
10/   Debt service - principal and interest amortized over years 2 to 6.
a/    Of half in year 1
ASPAD
October 1977



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Economic Crop Budget - Project Area
(per acre)
GROSS      -------- IMPuf Coors------                  cos          NEf       LABOR    ANlMAL/'
CROP       YZELD      PRICE      vALUE       SEED   FERTLLIZER PEST) CIDE O3R /   IOTAL             VALUL         REQ         REQ
(T/Ac)   (Rs/Ton)      (Rs)    IRs/Ac)    (RsA/Ac)        Ac)    (Re/Ac)       (Rs)        (Rs)      (DAYs)      (DAYS)
PRErsNT
PADDY            ,.7    1376,0       N94.4      41,0       51.6          9,6       0.0      104,2       790.2       5it0        tS,0
WHLAT            p.6    1204.0       722.4     12?.6       56.8          9,6       0,0      3A8,9       533.5       31.0        12t0
COTTtlN         ,o.4    Uo96.0    I .0 6        3R,7        34.4        19.,3      O*        92,4       991.2        48.0       10.0
J0v4tARt        v.3    Q'46.4         R398       9,3         A.6         00        0,0        17,9      265.9       21. 
CRAA                .2    21S0.0     439.0      18,1         A.6         0.0       0.0       26,7       403.3        16.0        6,0
GRO1UND14I,T     ,S.3    17?0.0      5Jo.0    296.4        43.0          9,6       0,0      259,0       257.0       26.0        860
OILSIAD          v .3    ?45I 0      612.8      20,6         0.0         o.0       0.0        20,6      592.1       20.0         B,0
SUGAIRtAUF      15.0         .      1935,0     268,F       t60.0        28,9       0,0       4S7,6     1477.4        66.0       12.0
MILK             0.1    1204-0       149.3       0.0         0.0         0.0       15.9       15.9       133.4       18;0        0,0
M'A T            0.0   560.0         20.6       0,0         0.0         0,0       0.0         0,0       20.6         1.2       00
FOLDDrE                     *.*        0.0       0,0        51.6         9.6       0.0        63l2       *6l.2       60.0      1,0
FUTIIRE WITHOIlUT PROJECT
FADDY            u.8    2350.0    1312.5        64.5       92.5         14.0       0,0       170,9     1441.6       53.0        17,0
WHLAT             .?    150o5.O    3OS3,5      14R,4       104.1        14.0       0.0      266,4       787.1        33.0       I4,0
C1TTIIN          o..5    3996.0    1393.2       38,7        66.6        26.9       0,0       132,2     1261.0        50.0       12t0
.10wWAR          *4    to75.0        430.0       9.8       53,A          0.0       0,0        63.6      366.4        23.0       7,o-
GRAM            p.3    24.1,0        612.8      21, I        0.0         0.0       0.0        201,      592.6        20.0        4,0
GC01UNDNUT       0 4    158A.8       5413R A    IJ2,0       67,0        14.0       9,0      ZS3,0       280.8        28.0 9,0
o0lSoD           0.3    1978.0       593,4      18.1        25.8         0.0       0.0        43,9      549.5'       22.0        7,0
SUGARUAtIE      ?0.0      172.0    344t.0    32Z,s         368.1        53.8      o0o        744,3    2695.7          ae.0      14,0
M'ILK            0.2    1204.0       186.6       0,0         0.0        0Q0       37,4        37,4       149.2       24.0        0,0
MCAT             0,0    5316.0        Z0.O6 0,0              0.0         0o,      00          0,0       20.6         1.2.      00
Ft'DDEP        22.0         0.0        0.0       V0,       116.1        21.5       Q,0       137,6    -137.6         64.0       1,0*
FUTI'RC WITH PRI)JECT
PADDY            0.9    2150.0    3827.5        64,5       150.9        Zl1S       0,0       236,9     1590.6        57.0       19,0
WHLAT           0.9    1505.0    1354.5    14a,4          tS0.9         21.5       0,0       320,8    1033.7         35.O       16,0
COT tili         o.6    'Qb9.0    1702.8        38.7       317.4        41,0       0,0       399,1     1503.7        53.0       13,0
.111WAR         0.6    1075,0        591.3       9.8       92.5          0.0       0,0       102.      489.0        25.0        6,0
CRA^t          oQ.3    2051.0        7ts.3      20.t        72.2         0.0       0.0        92.4      642.9        22.0        6,0
GP'UNh9tlIT        .5    I548 d      b9b.6    172,0        113.1        2b.9       0,0       312,0      384.6        28.0        8,0
011SLI:D        .4    1978,0        791.2      18,1        64.5         0,0       0,0        82,6      708.6        24.0        630
S('GARLANIE    2S.V      372.4 V    )300.0    122.5       590.0        10t7,5      0.0      3020.0     3280.0        97,0       17,0
M1 .x            0.5    12040#        597.2      0,O         0,0         V.O    149,6        149,6       447.5       63.0         0,0
ML'AT            0,     536-.0        31.0       0. 0        0.0         0,        0,0         0*0       31t0         1.2        0,0
FtlODVI'       26.O 0.                 0.d       0.o       t9t.8        53,x       0.0       245.5    -245.5         72.0        18,0
l/ Concentrate
2/ Bullock pairs
> b
t-.



INDIA
XATIONAL DAIRY PROJE&'T'
Project Output
Crop Area Yield, Production and Economic Value of Production
CROP                    PRESENT           _                     FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT                                FUTURE WITH PROJECT
AREA   YIELD    PROD       GROSS     NET       AREA      YIELD    PROD       GROSS     NET      AREA    YIELD    PROD        GROSS       NET
(M AC)  (T/AC)  (TH.T)         (OOOM Rs)       (M AC)    (T/HA)  (TH.T)          (OOOM Rs)      (M AC)   (T/HA)  (IH.T)           (OOOM Rs)
PADDY         3.2      0.65    2.1        2.9      1.7        3.2       0.75     2.4        5.2      3.7       3.2       0.85    2.7        5.8        3.9
WHEAT          1.9     0.6      1.1       1.4      0.7        2.0       0.7       1.4        2.1     1.2       2.0       0.9      1.8       2.7        1.5
COTTON        0.8      0.35    0.3        0.9      0.6        0.8       0.45     0.4        1.1      0.8       0.8       0.55    0.4        1.4        1.0
JOWAR         2.9      0.3      0.9       0.8      0.5        3.0       0.4      1.2        1.3      0.7       3.0       0.55    1.7        1.8        1.0
GRAM           1.7     0.2      0.3       0.7      0.5        1.7       0.25      0.4       1.0      0.8       1.7       0.3      0.5       1.3        0.9
GROUNDNUT     0.7      0.3      0.2       0.4      0.1        0.7       0.35     0.2        0.4      0.1       0.7       0.45    0.3        0.5        0.2
OILSEED       0.3      0.25    0.1        0.2      0.1        0.8       0.3      0.2        0.5      0.3       0.8       0.4      0.3       0.6        0.5
SUCARCANE     0.3    15.0      4.5        0.6      0.4        0.3     20.0       6.0.       1.0      0.7       0.3      25.0      7.5       1.3        0.8
MILK         10.0      0.1      1.2       1.5      1.0       10.0       0.2       1.6       1.9      0.9      10.0       0.5      5.0       6.0        2.6
HEAT          10.0     0.0      0.0       0.2      0.2       10.0       0.004    0.0        0.2      0.2      10.0       0.006   0.1        0.3        0.3
FODDER        0.1    20.0       2.4       0.0      0.0        0.2      22.0      3.3        0.0    -0.1        0.4       26.0    9.6        0.0       -0.2
CROP INT    119.2                                           126.5                                            128.7
TOTAL                                     9.5      5.7                                      14.7     9.4                                   17.4       12.5
ASPAD
March 1978
I3,



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Model: Dairy Cooperative Union Investment Costs (RsBtQoo)..
_____________------------- Years -----------------------
1            2             3              4               5         Total
I.  Establishment and Services
Union Al and Services                   1,083        1,334             348             56           -           2,821
Investments in DCS and
Union Establishment
- Vehicles                              660          -                             -              -             660
- Union Training                        670          -                             -              -             670
- Planning and Consultancies            720          330            230            230            -          1,510
II. rrocessing and Distribution
Processing                                -          2,000          9,000          9,000            -         20,000
Working Capital                           200           300            500            400           300         1,700
Distribution                             -           2,885          2,885          2,885          2,885       11,540
Total                                3,333         6,849         12,963         12,571         3,185        38,901
ASPAD
March 1978
u1.H



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJ!CT
Dairy Cooperative Union rnccue and Operating Cost Projeettin.
Yield or Number
of Units at                          Cost or Price----------------Years----------------
Full Developmsent                         per Unit2                 1      2       3      14      5       6       7      8       9       10
Milk  flC0 e   fc    C  yaLy, million lts._3/                                                                                      14.4   114.5   29.14  143.2   52.!5  61.1   65.9   70.8   76.2   81.1
EECl Powder for recenstitution, tons             )     2.7 skim milk powder: 1 butter oil                                                 200    500    300        -                               
SIZC butter oil for reconstitution, tons, V/                                                                                               75    185    110        -                               
M4ilk reconstituted from EW skim milk powder2.                                                                                                      5.     31 
and buttev, oil, million its.                              1.14 it/kg skim milk powder                                                    23      57     34      -                        
% of Total
W.l eollected
Income                                                          Yr.l 1   r   -   Yr. I-#---                                                      Na-R  Million ------
'Lquid milk sold                                              15W      U        7                 Rs 2.00 on average                8.8   26.5   55.14   714.3  83.14
Milk products                                                    -      20%      20%               Rs 14.2/lt milk equivalent       -      114.3   29.7   39.14  144.5
AI doses supplied to famers, thousands                           250 doses/DCS/yr                  Rs 7/dose                        0.1    0.1    0.14    0.6    0.7
Total Inecoe                                                              ~i~-    1.    1. 
Orierting CO-sts
Direct Costs
Raw mat-erial: Milk procured fram DC8                              (6% fat)                        Rs 1.70/It at 00S                7.5   214.7   50.0   73.14   89.3
SW powder from pooled stock 2/-R: 8/kg                                                                               -       1.6   14.0    2.14    -
NEI  butter oil from pooled stock  /                                                Rn 12/kg                          -      0.9    2.2    1.3    -
Anhiml husbandry, extension services, AI
Mobile veterinary units                                      8 units x 5o,ooo km/yr              Rs 85,000/unit                   0.3    0.5    0.7    0.7    0.7
Medicines                                                                                        Ra 1,200/00S                     0.1    0.2    0.1      0.5    0.5
Glassware, chemicals                                                                             Rs 200/008                       0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1
Production, purchase aind prcuotion of Al
semen doses                                                Rs 565,000/100,000 doses           Rs 5.65/dose                      0.0    0.1    0.14    0.5    0.6
Direct labor:, skilled                                       50 persons x 12 mo/yr               Rs 500/mo                        0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3.
unskilled                                     30 persons x 12 mo/yr               Rs 300/mo                        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Milk collection and processing                               (Year 1:                              Rs 0.15/lt
Transportation of milk frcu 008 to plants                  (0.7    1.2    2.14    3.5   14.2
including procurement expenses                           (Year 2 on                           Rn 0.08/it
Direct labor: skilled                                        70 persons x 12 mo/yr              Rs 500/mo                         0.2    0.3    0.14    o.+    0.14
unskilled                                     70 perpons x 12 mo/yr               Rn 300/mo                        0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Power,fuel,lubricnta,  efrigegLnts80 10011,00  it                                Re 0.114/1t                       0.6    2.14   14.9    6.5    7.14
Power,  uel, luricant, refrierants160 kg F.0./1,600 It
Cleaning and miscellaneous materials                                                            Rs 0.01/it                        0.0    0.2    0.14    0.5    0.5
Packing materials: sachets                                   in 1/2 It bags                     Rs 0.09/bag                       -       0.3    0.6    0.8    0.9
tetrapack                               in 1/2 It cartons                   Re 0.15/carton                    -       -      -       0.7    0.8
SugaLr, ingredients, including wrapping                      Khoa, 50%,Isugar                   Re 5.00/kg                        -       0.4    0.9    1.2    1.3
milk distribution and marketing
Transportation to bulkvending units by truek                         -Rn   141/tu                                                 0.1    0.3    0.7    0.9    1.1
Transportation to retail outlets by truck                                                       Re0.01/10.1    0.3    0.3    0.3
Transportation to national milk grid by rail                140,000 lite/a.                    Rs 30,000/uit/yre-
tanker                                                                                           Bie o.o5/lt                    0.1    0.2    0.14    0.14    0.14
Royalty to Tetra-Pak, Sweden                                                                      3 1/2%                            -       -      -       0.2    0.2
Excise duties                                                (infant food, skim milk powder    10%                                  -       0.6    1.2    1.5    1.7
Subtotal                                                                                                                          100 315 707*~ 111
(Continued on next peg,)
0* I
0 *
*-bPl



Yield or Number
of Units at                 Coat or Price
Full Develolment                per Unit  g/                 1      2      3      4      5
Overhead Costs
)Anage.ent                                                 5 persons x 12 mo/yr             Rs 2,000/mo                    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1
Technical, administrative, supervision personnel
Animal husbandry, extension services, Al                 20 persons x 12 mo/yr            Rs 1,000/mo                    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Milk collection                                          20 persons x 12 mo/yr            Rs 1,000/mo                    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Milk distribution and marketing                          20 persons x 12 mo/yr            Rs l,OO/mo                    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Administration expenses including insurance:
Animal husbandry, extension services, AI                                                  Rs 150I00)/so                  1.0    1.1    1.3    1.5    l o
Milk collection and processing
Milk distribution and marketing
Maintenance including materials:
Animal husbandry, extension services, AI                 4 persons x 12 mo/yr             RE 500/mo                      0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1
Milk processing                                          10 persons x 12 mo/yr            R. 500/mo                      0.1   0.2    0.3    0.3   0.3
Milk distribution and marketing                          10 persons x 12 mo/yr            Rs 500/mo                      0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3   0.3
Board
Federation Overhead                                      5 Management                       Rs 200,000/yr                  0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
S   Administration
Subtotal                                                          ~19    2 5    2                                                              3 1   ;3
Total Operating Cost                                                                                                      11     37.0 - 73 6            ;    114
Net Operating SurPlus i                                                                                                   (2.O)             9 9 19   13.7    1
Fluid milk to nationl milk grid: 3 weeks )
Working Capital L/                                         Fluid milk to bulk vending     : 1 day    Iavg  turnover        0.2    0.3    0.5   0.4    0.3
Fluid milk in sachets and UTH  : 2 weeks       1 wee
i/ The model represents a typical Union amalgamating about 400 DCS; an estimated 50 Unlons would be organized under the project in the main milk sheds in India.
EJ Unit costs have been obtained mostly fram NDDB's Operation Flood II report which the mission found current and realistic.
3/ Fro- Table 3.
T So generate local funds to finance sbout 20% of the project cost, the 50 Unions would have to reconstitute and market aorosrite.lvS5 000 tons
Of the EEC donations of skim milk powder with corresponding butter oil provided to the pooled buffer stock, during the period 197t/79 Ithrough  984/85
P/ Prices established by IDC.
Although milk production continues to increase, investments mainly in milk processing and marketing under the project would not allow handling of volumes pro-
jected beyond year 5 in the life of a Union. Further investments would be required by that time.
All fluid milk is marketed with an average turnover of 1 week and would, therefore, constitute the permanent working capital which would be financed under
the project. Milk converted into powder and purchases of EEC powder on a seasonal or sporadic basis for balancing purposes or making powder derived products
would be financed by short-term borrowings. The seasonal working capital requirements for financing the powder stocks would be in Rs million; year 1 - none,
year 2 - 1.6, year 3 - 2.7, year 4 - 7.1 and year 5 - 12.7, per Union, based on the following assumptions:
a. 30% of all equivalent milk supplies is converted into powder with complementary purchases from EEC in years 2, 3 and 4.
b. 50% of the powder is used for balancing purposes, powder of own production has a turnover of six months; if purchased, 1 month.
c. 50% of the powder is used for making powder derived products, powder of own production has a turnover of 2 months; if purchased, 1 month.
ASPAD
March 1978
co m 
0. 
t-h N)



IDIA
IATIONAL DkIRY PFRCT
UDTOBC"h Warear.-ct
1     2        3       4       5     6       7       8       9      10     U       12      13      14       15      16     17       is      19      to
Sources of rund
ty
riq        capital and abership tees                   0.0   0.1      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0        -      -       -       -       -
GOI Y  ad 000 contributions                          1.0   2.0      3.8    3.7    0.8       -       _       _          -       -       -      -       -             _       _       -  -            -       _
LOans for b tmtsd Per. orD Capital
Ird4f Iblry Corportion and 00I                       2.3   4.8      9.1    8.9    2.2      -
Sbort Term Loans
For hore tara working cap. (6 onths)                  -    1.6      2.7    7.1   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7    12.7   12.7   12.7    12.7   12.7   12.7
For first year financing                             4.0     -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -        -       -       -        -      -       -
Tranfer of 3itit   Plants                               -   10.0      -
ODMraIng 8avanna                                                              3.   128.6  128.6  128.8                86          1286128         6       128.6   iOD6         128.6          86.6
Total Sources of Funds             16.2  59.4   101.2  133.1  144.4  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3  141.3   141.3  141.3  141.3   141.3  141.3  141.3
InYOStIht8 In UD1ODi Pecllities                        3.3   6.8    13.0   12,6    3.2       _      10.4    -        -      _       -      10.4    5.0    7.2        _       _     10.4      9.5    9.5      _
lliqulattlon ofr14dtin  lants10.0                                     -       --      -                                                     -       -       -                        -       -       -
OD rat1m6 eoet4.                                      11.9  37.0    ?3.6   99.6  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5  114.5   114.5   11                  24.5   114.5  1144.5  114.5
Debt Service
YTW4   aIom PiOipS                                    -      -      -       -       -       0.3    1.0    2.3    3.5    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9            3.9    3.6    2.9        1.6    0.3    -
Long term loan interest (8.5$)                        -     -       -       -       -      0.3    0.8    1.8    2.6    2.5    2.2         1.9    1.6    1.3        1.0    0.7    0.4        0.2    0.0     -
Short tarm loan principal                             -    4.0      1.6    2.7    7.1   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7    12.7   12.7   12.7    12.7   12.7   12.7
Short tem loran intermxt (14%)                        -    o.6      0.1    0.2    0.5    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9               0.9    0.9    0.9        0.9    0.9    0.9
InomecTac_ (2424%)                                     -    0.3    24.5    6.o    2.7    2.3   .2.4    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.8    2.9             3.0    3.1       3.1    3.3    3.4        3.4    3.4    3.4
Total  Uses of Funds (before         15.2  58.7    92.8   121.1  128.0  131.0  142.7  134.7  136.9  137.2  137.0  147.2  14l.6  143.6   136.1  135.7  1245.2   142.j  141.3  131.5
itum bomm and transfers
to r erve funds)
Annul Cab Flo7, get                   1.0   7.0      8.4   12.0   16.4  '10.3   (2.4)   6.6    4.4    4.1    4.3   (5.9)   (0.3)   (2.3)    5.2    5.6   (3.9)    (1.5>    -                 9.8
30% of Invwmtu.
2J001 Is aeowtad to ganarate tha funds needed through male of ski MiU poeradhtrolabeudtobdt.by .
Th  wEis a-ts plma =  br OOI and state                are gehr       t         aXd butter all schedued to be dmtedb
s- ha istng pmlants cosntd by 001 an  stt   oainmeamhdulsd to be transferred to the unions at their hook value.
8 Seenin Oprai  Cat Prjctin.
oee Unioa Inveatnant Projections.
hl. Tax  - payable (a milk poducts at rate 1l% at valora.
If 20% tbroput Is products, and 25% Products are sold nd 75% rencaptltuted, excisl duty paid would be about RN 1 N p.a. (Value of silk products produced Rs 44.5 X p.a.)
ASFA  1978 
M  >4



ANN~EX 1
Table 5. 4
a
...    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.       ~~~~~~~~. 
.1
~ii
C                i
-It~L                          3C 
'I~                   i-iC



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
IDC's Cash Flow  /  (Rs. Millions)
Outflow  1  2   3        4       5       6        7       8        9      10       11      12       13      14       15
Outflow
SubproJect loans                      60.4   286.5   577.1   553.1   319.9   151.0    67.3          _ -          -       -        -       -        -            -
Grants for subprojects 2|             25.9   122.1   247.3   237.0   137.0    64.o    28.8               -           -        -       -        -
Cattle improvement projects 3/         1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8
IDC's own investments  /              30.9    33.5    20.2    12.3         -     5.8        -       _        -       -        -       -        -       _        _
Permanent working capital for
milk powder pool 2/                   0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Administrative Expenditure 2            1.5     2.0     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5
Repayment of GOI loans 7/                -        -       -        -       -     6.8    32.6    81.4   127.7   154.4   167.0   172.7   172.6   172.6   172.6
Interest payment thereon                 -        -       _        _       _     5.1    23.8    58.1    86.8    97.2    95.2    86.7    73.6    60.5    47.4
Total outflow                      121.0   446.4   o34.9   807.2   461.7   237.5   156.6   143.8   218.8   255.9   266.5   263.7   250.5   237 4   224.3
Inflow
IDA Credit onlent by GOI 2            49.4   186.6   355.6   337.9   192.6    93.3    40.4          -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Repayments received
-Operation Flood I loans 9/           55.0    60.o    90.0    53-0         _        -       -       _   -            -        _       _        _       _        _
-National Dairy Project Loans 10         -                -        -       -     8.6    49.4   131.6   210.4   256.0   277.5   287.1   287 1   287.1   287 1
Additional inflow required                -       -   345.7   416.3   269.1   128.0    25.5         -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Interest revenue                         -        -       -        -       -     7.3    41.3   106.9   162.7   183.5   180.2   164.2   140.3   116.1    91.6
Total inflow                       234.4   376.6  791.3   807.2  461.7   237.5   156.6   238.5   373.1   439.5   457.7   4531.8   427 4   403.2   378 7
Annual netflow                     113.4  ( 69.8) ( 43.6)        -       -        -       -    94.7   154.3   183.6   191.2   188.1   176.9   165.8   154.4
Cumulative flow                    113.4    43.6        _-                                -    94.7   249.o   432.6   623.8   811.9   988.8 1,154.6 1,309.0
/ Includes lending of GOI funds (possibly from EEC) through IDC.
IDC would finance 70 percent of the investments (less members' contributions) in DCS and Union/Federations.  Summary of total investments is in
Table 2.1. A grant of 30 percent is given for the rest.
3  IDC cctmenced these under Operation Flood.  Milch animal improvement projects (bull mother farms, stud farms) are assumed to continue at. the
project level.
Includes rail tankers, lamination plant and new stores for the milk powder pool.
/ In addition to investments in storage appearing in the previous item, permanent operating capital, estimated Rs. 0.5M annually for the project
disbursement period (pre-project level), is required.
2  Personnel,office and administrative expenses were Rs. 4.5M in 1976/77 and about Rs. 5.0M in 1977/78.  Due to the project, these costs are
estimated to grow by 50 percent during the first three years of operation (incremental cost of Rs. 2.5M).
7/ Payment of installments of each year's loanrs and capitalized interest of 7.5 percent has five years' grace period.
S The IDA funds, to be channelled through IDC; are about Rs. 1256M (Rs. 34M for technical assistance will go to GOI).
2/ Use of Flood I recycled funds for National Dairy Project are scheduled to be $30M (Rs. 258M).  Repayment of Flood I loans will continiue beyond the
fourth year, but the extra funds can be used for other projects.
S  Five year's grace period for each loan, with 8.5 percent capitalized interest, repayable in 10 equal installments.
, Interest free, expected to be created by EEC milk powder proceeds and GOI allocations.  Repayment is not expected during the project period.
Other revenue items assumed for cash flow purposes to be break-even although those operations are all expected to generate a cash siurplus.
ASPAD                                                                                                                                                              & n
April 1978                                                                                                                                                         wa >C



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Model ByLaws for a Primary Milk Producers' Cooperative Society
- Salient Features -
Purposes
-    to assist members in improving village dairying;
-    to improve the breed and health of cattle;
-    to organize the sale of balanced cattle-feed to the societies
members and to foster the increase of fodder production for
milch animals.
Membership qualifications include:
-    approval of written application form by the majority of the
Managing Committee;
-    keeping a milch animal and having supplied the society
for three consecutive months preceding the date of appli-
cation as a nominal member;
-    subscribing at least one share and having paid an agreed
entrance fee.
Members must not be dealing in milk and milk products, and must
agree in writing to supply milk only to the society (selling to others than
the milk society or engaging in milk business on the side constitute reasons
for expulsion).
Each member (one per household) would have one vote in the General
Meetings. The Managing Committee of the Society would consist of nine members
elected at the annual general meeting of the Society. One third of the
members would retire each year by rotation. More than half of the members (5)
would constitute a quorum.
A member of the Managing Committee may not have an interest in
the business of the society (such as leasing property to it) and may not be
a paid employee of the society or any other society, or be a relative of such
an employee; and his joint family may not carry on any business relating to
the society.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The Managing Committee would appoint a Chairman from its members
within 10 days after the General Meeting at which the committee is appointed.
If the District Registrar finds serious mis-management he can
suspend the Managing Committee and appoint an administrator. Funds may be
raised:
-    by share issue;
-    donations; and
-    entrance fees.
Each member would subscribe to a Rs 10 share which may be paid
with the share application or in instalments as decided by the Managing
Committee. The liability of a member would not exceed the unpaid amount
of subscribed shares.
Fixed and current deposits could be accepted by the society at a
rate of interest up to one percent less than the rate offered by banks on
such deposits. Loans and deposits would be limited to maximum ten times the
amount of paid up share capital plus accumulated reserve and building fund,
minus accumulated losses.
Distribution of Profits
The gross profits of the year would be declared at the Annual Gene-
ral Meeting and deduction made for: (a) interest payable on loans and deposits;
(b) working expenses of the society; (c) losses; (d) depreciation on buildings
and other assets; (e) bad debts sanctioned by the Managing Committee and
approved by the District Registrar; and (f) contributions to staff provident
fund and staff gratuity. The balance would be treated as net profit, to be
distributed: (a) no less than 25% for Reserve Fund; (b) paying shareholders as
dividend a sum not exceeding 9% of paid up share capital; (c) contributions to
education fund prescribed by the State Cooperative Act. The remaining balance
after these allocations would be distributed: (a) 65% as a bonus to the
members (proportional to their milk sales to the society); (b) 10% to a Cattle
Development Fund; (c) 10% to charity; (d) 10% to propaganda; and the balance
to the Reserve Fund. If any deviation from this patern is deemed necessary by
the Managing Committee, it could be only for the one year in question, and
with the approval of the General Meeting and the District Registrar.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Model ByLaws for a District Cooperative Milk Producer's Union
- Salient Features -
Purposes
-    purchase milk from member societies for sale directly or
through federations;
-    organize the purchase and distribution of cattle feed;
-    promote fodder development;
-    provide veterinary and AI services;
-    buy animals on behalf of the societies, if desired by the
federations;
-    organize the transport of milk; and
-    organize new cooperative societies and develop existing ones.
Management
The unions will have a policy-making Executive Committee composed of:
-    12 elected representatives of affiliated DCS;
-    Nominee of affiliated federation;
-    Managing Director of union; and
-    One nominee coopted from the federation (by the other members
of the Board).
The Chairman would be one of the representatives of the DCS. For
the first year the Executive Committee would be nominated as recommended by
IDC/NDDB, who would nominate 20 society representatives, of whom the Registrar
would appoint 12 to the Board. After the first year, the Committee would be
elected as per election rules in the bylaws. One third of the Committee
would be required to retire by rotation every year. The Executive Committee
would also constitute the Board, except that the Managing Director would be
its non-voting Secretary.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Each union would also have an Advisory Committee consisting of:
(a) Collector of District Development Officer (Chairman);
(b) Chairman of the Milk Union;
(c) District Animal Husbandry Officer;
(d) District Registrar/Assistant Registrar;
(e) Chairman of the District Cooperative Union;
(f) Representative of IDC/NDDB; and
(g) Managing Director of the Union.
The general body would consist of the Chairmen of the Cooperative
Societies and the members of the Union's executive committee; each with one
vote.
Membership and Shares
-    All registered milk producers' societies would be members;
-    Face value of each share would be Rs 100, and every member
would hold at least one paid-up share of Rs 100; and
-    Members could transfer shares among each other with the
approval of the executive committee.
Funds
Capital could be raised by: (i) entrance fees; (ii) issue of shares;
(iii) deposits from members and non-members; (iv) loans; (v) grants from gov-
ernment and international agencies; (vi) loans and subsidies from the state
government (subject to the relevant laws and regulations of the state, but
not exceeding more than ten times the paid up share capital and accumulated
reserve funds of the union).
Distribution of Profits
Trading profits would be announced at the annual general meeting,
and deduction made for interest, losses, depreciation, contribution to staff
provident fund, gratuity for staff, provision for staff bonus (as per Bonus
Act), and income tax. The net profits would be divided as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(i) 15% carried to Reserve Fund;
(ii) contributions to education funds as required by the State
Cooperative Act;
(iii) a sum not exceeding 9% per annum as dividend on paid-up
share capital.
The remaining profits, if any, would be distributed as follows:
(i) 80% for bonus to the members, proportional to milk procurement;
(ii) 10% for charity fund; and
(iii) the remainder for cooperative education (5%), research in
the dairy industry (3X) and dividend equalization fund (2%).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Model ByLaws of a Cooperative Milk Producers' Federation
- Salient Features -
Purposes
-    to own and operate dairy processing facilities for the benefit
of Member Unions;
-    to own and operate liquid nitrogen plants and bull farms for
the provision of the Union's AI services;
-    market products under its own brand name, or under its member
unions trademark and brand name;
-    advise the Unions on price policy.
The member unions would be obliged to schedule milk procurement
according to the directions of the Federations and adhere to the Federation's
directives regarding formation of societies, technical inputs program, pricing,
etc.
The Board of the Federation would consist of:
-    6 Chairmen of member unions;
-    Nominee of the State Registrar;
-    Nominee of State Dairy Development Department;
-    Nominee of NDDB;
-    Nominee of Financing Agency (IDC);
-    Managing Director of the Federation; 1/
-    Additional members coopted by the Board.
Each Federation would have an Advisory Board composed of:
-    Secretary, State Dairy Development Department;
-    Registrar of Cooperatives;
-    Director of Animal Husbandry;
1/   At present the General Directors of the Gujarat Unions are not on the
Boards.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Milk Commissioner;
Chairman of the federation;
Representative of NDDB;
-    Representative of IDC; and
-    Managing Director of the federation (non-voting).
The General Body of the Federation would consist of the (6) Chairmen of the
Unions; the State Registrar, a nominee of the State Dairy Development Depart-
ment, and other nominated members on the Board of Directors. (i.e. identical
to Board, except Managing Director would not be a member and that members of
the Board would have no voting rights). Voting would be one vote per member.
Funds would be raised by (a) shares; (b) debentures; (c) deposits; (d) loans;
Te) grant aids and subsidies; (f) donations; and (g) entrance fees. The
authorized share capital of Rs 10 million would be 10,000 shares of 10,000
each. Debentures, deposits and loans would not exceed 12 times paid-up share
capital and reserve fund (less accumulated losses). There would be two kinds
of members, ordinary and nominal. Any registered milk union formed prior to
the project on a non-Amul pattern can become a nominal member, without acquir-
ing voting rights or a share in the distributions of profits. Milk unions
who have signed the bylaws would become ordinary members. All members would
subscribe Rs 20,000 as share capital.
Distribution of Profit
-    25% reserve fund;
-    dividend not exceeding 9% of profits on the paid-up share
capital;
-    small contributions to education and other funds as
required by State's Cooperative Unions Act;
-    balance distributed as bonus to member unions.



ANNEX 3
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
IDA Fiscal Year                          Cumulative
and Quarter         Disbursement      Disbursement
1979     1st             1.56
2nd            1.56
3rd            1.56
4th             1.56
Total            6.24             6.24
1980     1st             5.58
2nd            5.58
3rd             5.58
4th             5.58
Total           22.32            28.56
1981     1st            10.54
2nd           10.54
3rd           10.54
4th           10.54
Total          42.16             70.72
1982     1st             9.99
2nd             9.99
3rd             9.99
4th           -9.99
Total          39.97           110.69
1983     1st             5.75
2nd            5.75
3rd            5.75
4th             5.75
Total           23.00          133.69
1984     1st             2.84
2nd            2.84
3rd             2.84
4th             2.84
Total          11.36           145.05
1985     1st             1.23
2nd             1.23
3rd             1.23
4th             1.26
Total            4.95           150.00
April 1978
ASPAD



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subproject Outline
A. Introduction
1.        The India Dairy Corporation (IDC) would assume responsibility for
appraisal and supervision of subprojects. IDA staff would only participate
in the appraisal of the first five subprojects. NDDB is expected to prepare
most of the feasibility study reports of the subprojects to be appraised by
IDC. These feasibilities studies would conform to standards acceptable to
IDA.
2.        Subprojects would be implemented by the milk unions or federations
which would submit to IDC periodical progress reports to help IDC to super-
vise the subprojects. IDC's field supervisions would be at least biannually
in the first two years of each subproject. Continuous monitoring and evalua-
tion of the entire dairy development program would be IDC's responsibility.
Summaries of IDC's appraisal, supervision, monitoring and evaluation reports
on each subproject would be incorporated in IDC's quarterly reports to IDA.
B. Outline for Feasibility Study Reports on Subprojects
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Project summary highlighting locations, scope and size, number of
people affected, main components, project costs, financing, project organiza-
tion and benefits.
I.   INTRODUCTION
A.   Rationale of the Project.  Brief description of economic
and social rationale in relation to state and national
development strategy.
B.   Genesis of the Project.  Origin and preparation of project.
Brief historical resume of dairying in the state.
II.   BACKGROUND
A.   Dairying in the State's Economy.  Economic importance of dairying
in the state economy. Salient statistical information indicat-
ing present production and value, rate of growth, numbers engaged



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.   Policy for Development of Dairying.  The project proposal in
relation-to the state's social and economic policy objectives.
Present functioning of the traditional and organized sectors
in dairying.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Climate.  Salient features of the climate which affect dairy-
ing. Brief details of duration and rainfall and temperature
ranges in each area.
B.   Soils.  Brief description, by area of main soil types, their
properties, including drainage and run-off, nutrient status
and deficiencies.
C.   Population.  Appropriate information for the project area on
population, number of farm families and labor both resident
and migratory. Levels of farm income, particularly of those
engaged in dairying. General level of education.
D.   Present Land Use.  Salient features of the districts in terms
of: geographical areas of the district, permanent pasture,
land put under agriculture, non-irrigated, irrigated, land
in forest, cultivable waste, area under food crops, area
under non-food crops, present land use and yields for each
area and prevalent patterns of land tenure in project areas.
E.   Agricultural Supporting Services:
District Administration. Civil administration organization
as it affects dairying.
Department of Animal Husbandry. Present coverage of livestock
development projects.
Agricultural Extension. Hierarchy and present staffing levels
of extension staff for dairying.
Research. Research responsibilities and centers and nature
of programs in project areas and relevance to development
proposed. Staffing numbers, funding and resources available.
Other activities, e.g. ICAR schemes, and their relevance to
project actions.
Credit and Input Supply. Amounts, sources and availability
of credit and farm inputs for dairying. Availability of
crossbred cattle for purchase in the project area.
Processing. Number, location, capacity and output of exist-
ing processing facilities and their sources of milk supply.
Capacity utilization and financial status of existing dairies.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Logistics. Availability of rail and road network in the
milkshed.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Introduction
Brief description of project objective, and its targets
in quantitative terms. Reasons for the selection of project
areas. Salient determinants of milk potential in the pro-
ject area (e.g. access to irrigation, suitability for fodder
crop development, present status of crossbreeding programs,
etc. (referring to relevent annexes).
B.   Detailed Features
DCS Formation. Target number of DCS to be formed over project
period and phasing. Justification of targets and phasing in
terms of milk potential as related to present stage of dairy
development. Projected DCS membership, total area in utiliza-
tion within the project's ambit, and distribution of member-
ship by size of landholding.
Union Services. Targets for the provision of AI services and
animal health coverage, phased over time. Methods of operation
and any variations from standard operations if required by the
particular characteristics of the project areas.
Dairy Plants. Summary of capacities to be created, phased over
time, distinguishing between dairy expansions, new liquid milk,
dairies and manufacturing capacity. Number, location, and
phasing of chilling centers in relation to dairy plants.
Analysis underlying the choice of plant sites, the choice
of plant sites, the choice of alternatives regarding new
plants versus expansions, and the role of milk processing.
Distribution Schemes. Summary of capacities to be created and
by mode of distribution phased over time. Analysis of under-
lying choice of distribution methods mode. Transport requirements
of distribution systems.
Summarizing in separate sections other project components,
physical features and rationale for including them in the
project. These would normally include liquid nitrogen
plants, bull farms, storage, training, applied research,
and provision for monitoring and evaluation. Each section
would be supported by an annex as appropriate.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
IV. COST ESTIMATE
Summary of investment costs detailed under the headings of
Section B above (in tabular form but not phased over time.
Foreign exchange costs should be indicated).
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization and management matters including:
-    transfer of staff from state organizations to coopera-
tive organizations;
-    transfer of dairy assets to the management of the
cooperatives;
-    modification of State Cooperative Act to allow conformity
with the model bylaws of DCS, unions, and federations;
-    choice of management structure between autonomous unions
or federated structure;
-    legal transformation, if necessary, of the existing State
Dairy Corporation, to allow conformity with project ob-
jectives.
-    preparation of implementation and disbursement schedule.
VI. MARKETING AND PRICES
Description of the operation of traditional marketing channels
in the project area. Status of the organized milk marketing;
sector farmgate prices paid to farmers in the two sectors
(and seasonal variations). Analysis of the competitiveness
of the traditional sector with the modern sector in supplying
urban markets. Based on marketing surveys, estimate of rela-
tionship of effective demand (as opposed to consumption) to
the supply of milk. Indication of any shortage of milk rela-
tive to effective demand in the project area. 1/ Description
1/   The competitiveness of the organized dairy sector is very different
in a city like Bangalore, whose competitively priced good quality milk
is available for highly developed city dairy industry, from, for ex-
ample, the major cities of Madhya Pradesh, where milk in rationed by
the urban dairies and, in the free market, sells at a substantially
higher price than cost of production. Thus the marketing analysis
needs to go beyond a study of consumption patterns to throw light on
supply/demand relationship.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of target markets by the project: (i) in the project area;
(ii) in urban centers in the state outside the project area;
and (iii) out of the state. Target market shares in major
markets through time in a sumary table. (Location and phasing
of plant construction should be related to marketing forecasts.)
Justification of the distribution systems proposed on the basis
of market studies (see Appendix II on marketing).
VII. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND BENEFITS
A.   On-Farm Benefits.  With the aid of representative farm models
quantify on-farm incremental income from dairying. In addi-
tion to incremental income from dairying, estimate impact of
dairying on input use, cropping patterns and income from
agriculture.
B.   Financial Returns of Cooperatives.  Present expected financial
returns at each level of cooperative organization and the rate
of return on investment calculated at market prices for the
project as a whole.
C.   Cost Recovery.  Recovery of costs on government investments.  The
main sources of cost recovery are excise taxes on milk products,
income taxes of cooperative organizations and individual income
taxes of employees.
(The statement of cost recovery should be supported by an annex
tabulating the fiscal impact of the subproject for about 15
years.)
D.  Employment.  Incremental employment attributable to the project
from:
-    on-farm employment in dairy activities;
-    on-farm employment in other agriculture due to the
project;
-    employment creation directly attributable to the project
(viz. in the provision of services and in the dairy
plants);
-    other employment indirectly attributable to the project.
E.   Social Benefits.  Project impact on income distribution, impact
on the landless, poorer income groups, tribals and scheduled
castes.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
F.   Project-Risks.  Main sources of risk to the attainment of project
objectives, e.g. farmer response, delays in meeting milk procure-
ment targets, the viability of agro-climatic conditions. Quanti-
fied sensitivity of returns to the main risks. Safeguards pro-
posed against risks.
General Note: The feasibility study report is a document based on which
IDC should be able to reach judgments concerning the merits of the proposed
subproject. The text of the report should be short, focussing on the
analytical content of project design and detailed numerical analysis should
be presented as annexes to the main report.
C.   ANNEXES FOR THE FEASIBILITY REPORT
I.   UNIT COSTS.  Analyze the farm cost of producing milk in the project area:
(i) under different climatic and soil conditions;
(ii) in irrigated and dryland farming; and
(iii) for different sizes of farms (and also for landless farmers).
II.  FARM BUDGETS.  Proposed input use and on-farm investments should be pre-
sented for typical farm models. When improved farming practices are
proposed, are they supported by past experience? What are past results
of research and demonstration trials with regard to input use? (Distinc-
tion should be made between inputs needed to achieve maximum yields, in-
puts that may be economically optimal, and inputs that farmers are likely.
to adopt in view of their financial constraints.) Financial return on
investment should be calculated for representative farm models, over
about 15 years.
III. HERD PROJECTIONS FOR DCS AND MILK PRODUCTION AND PROCUREMENT PROJECTION.
If agronomic conditions and the present state of dairy development vary
significantly in the project areas, more than one DCS projection may be
warranted. The projections should be related to:
-    Available census data on cattle and buffalo population.
-    Estimated milk production of the differing proportions of
buffalo, cows and crossbred cows in lean and flush season
and in successive years.
-    Estimated consumption at source in lean and flush seasons.
IV. DCS FINANCIAL MODELS (milk volumes based on the herd projection).
Projection of investment costs, operating costs, revenues, profits
and cash flows, projected for about 15 years.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
V.   UNION FINANCIAL MODELS.  Projection of investment costs for animal
health, Al and administrative services, operating costs and revenues
(from fixed levy on milk procurement). Proportion of startup costs
to be capitalized, and its sensitivity to: (a) raising or lowering the
levy, and (b) overruns on operating costs. Explanation of cost struc-
ture if significantly different from standard operating costs in other
projects.
VI. DAIRY PLANTS AND CHILLING CENTERS. Projections for investments, reve-
nues, and operating costs, taking into account product, mix, and
seasonal variations in procurement. Determination of working capital
requirements. Choice of sites selected for dairies and chilling
centers to be justified in terms of:
-    pattern of movement of milk from markets and from pro-
curement milkshed areas;
-    topography and contour of the land;
-    area available for current and future needs;
-    distance from power transmission lines, transport
facilities and water supply;
-    availability of railway siding, etc.;
-    possibility of economic drainage and waste disposal system;
-    soil characteristics; and
-    municipal restrictions.
VII. PROJECT COSTS. Summarized project investment cost table with headings
corresponding to the section of "Detailed Features" in the project des-
cription in the main text. Table to be clearly cross-referenced to
detailed Tables on each component. The estimates of capital costs
presented in the feasibility report should be completed and properly
estimated. The cost estimates should indicate the following sub-heads
in case of dairy plants, feed plants, and chilling centers:
-    civil engineering cost;
-    cost of dairy equipment;
-    cost of service equipment;
-    cost of erection;
-    cost of transport and distribution systems;



ANNEX 4
Page 8
contingencies; and
miscellaneous (details to be given).
Indication of anticipated sources of finance for the different project
categories.
VIII. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
-    List of organizational charts and staff strength of state
agencies active in dairy development, including present gov-
ernment dairies.
-    Description of present activities of state agencies dealing
with dairy development, procedures and possible problems
relating to the transfer of state dairy assets and staff
to the cooperative sector.
-    Modifications in the State Cooperative Act which would be
required to allow conformity with model dairy cooperative
bylaws.
-    Tabulation of staff requirements for the project phased
over time (by profession and level). Tabulation of the
staff costs.
IX. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
Demand Projections:
-    a breakdown of consumption by different income groups, with
proportion of income spent on food and milk products;
-    a breakdown of consumption by different milk products, taking
into consideration past trends, and projected household
incomes;
-    estimated gap between effective demand and supply in all
consumption centers that may be supplied by the project,
in relation to pricing policies likely to prevail.
The Marketing Study
-    rationale for choice of consumption centers to be supplied
with milk and milk products from the project area, with an
analysis of transport and distribution requirements;



ANNEX 4
Page 9
-    present and projected market shares of supplier groups
such as urban producers, rural commercial producers,
agents, etc., taking into consideration the economic
conditions they are likely to face (in rural and urban
areas), and justifying the project's market share and
segments that can be captured by the union dairies;
-    the appropriate product mix taking into consideration the
seasonality of supply and the pattern of demand by different
market segments.
Processing Facilities
Optimal location and phasing of processing capacity, with reference
to both the state and national milkgrids. Analysis of how this ob-
jective is met in terms of minimizing investment and processing costs
(including the costs of operating below capacity), as well as trans-
port and distribution costs and in terms of providing balancing
facilities to cope with the seasonality of supplies. Formulation
of a plan for the construction of union feed-plants, consistent with
the phasing of unions.
Distribution Modes
In light of the projected breakdown of sales by destination and by
income groups, the marketing study would analyze the merits of pro-
duct differentation and alternative methods of distribution for the
dairies, and recommend the phasing and composition of investment in
distribution systems e.g. bulk vending booths, retail bulk dispensers,
bottled milk, heat sealed polybags (sachets) and "long life milk"
in tetrapack to supply distant urban markets (see Annex IX on
marketing).
Sales Promotion and Market Build-up
Managerial steps and measures required to complement the recommenda-
tions for marketing strategy. These would include:
-    a critical path analysis for the implementation of the
recommended marketing strategy;
-    recommendations for public information and advertising
campaigns to promote the cooperative dairies' milk;
-    TOR for the subproject's marketing offices for determining
the location and managing the installment of bulk vending
units and retail bulk dispensers;



ANNEX 4
Page 10
-    outlining opportunities for product development in the
project areas, and the recommended field training programs
for marketing officers and product managers to exploit
these opportunities.
X.   COST RECOVERY
Tabulation and analysis of the complete fiscal impact of the project.
XI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Tabulation and analyzing of the rate of return on investment at market
prices, and the economic rate of return (at economic "border" prices
and taking into account employment efforts). Analyze the sensitivity
of returns to main project risks.
MAP:      The milkshed with rail and road connections (linking it with
cities with population over 100,000 which would be major markets
outside the project area).
CHARTS:   (i)  Critical path for the sequential analysis of key steps
in implementation.
(ii) Quarterly disbursement schedule.



INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Implementation of a New Federation - Key Activities
Months from Starting Point
Activity                         Time Required                 6            12            18            24           30             36           42
1 Discussions fuetweeng GOi and IDC on      one month
project size location and basiC
structure
2. Preparation of feasibility study        three months
3. Apprilivil of s11sproi1!ct by IOC        two months
4. Organization of Federation               one month
Board nomination. HQ, established,
appointment of M.D., appropriation
of first budget
5. Appointment of spearhead team by         one month 
NODS and Federation
6. Union structure decided and key          two months
staff appointed to Unions
7. Key staff training at NDDB               six months
8. Baseline surveys of potential DCS        six months
and rnilk routes by spearhead
teams
9. First OCS established and OCS           two months                                      _
staff training commenced
10. Union services initiated                     nA.
11. Plant design, based on market            Six months                                          =
analysis and supply potential                                                     l loo9
finalized, tenders advertised,
bids awarded and Construction
contracted
12. Plant construction                        two yeanrs 
March 1978
ASPAD                                                                                                                                                     World Bank - 188S5



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Reporting Requirements
1.        Each participating union and federation, as well as IDC and NDDB
would have arrangements for monitoring subproject implementation and opera-
tions. Management at various levels of the respective institutions will
maintain key records, summaries of which would be distributed internally to
management executives for information feedback and follow-up action. Dupli-
cation in collating information would be avoided, and simplification of
reporting and confinement to essential information would be the key notes.
These principles would also be followed in the reporting procedures to be
followed by IDC in providing information periodically to IDA.
2.        For each level of project organization reporting would generally
take the following forms:
(a) Quarterly progress reports;
(b) Annual accounts and directors' report;
(c) Auditors' report;
(d) Half-yearly supervision reports; and
(e) A final monitoring and evaluation report;
(f) Ad hoc reports on significant developments.
3.        All reports -- whether prepared by unions, federations, NDDB or
IDC -- would be made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
Additionally, the following reports prepared by IDC would be forwarded to
IDA:
(a) Annual work programs and budgets of IDC and NDDB not later
than two months prior to commencement of their financial
year;
(W) IDC and NDDB quarterly project progress reports within one
month of the close of each quarter; and
(c) IDC and NDDB audited annual accounts and reports within
four months of the close of their financial year.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        IDC's quarterly progress reports would normally comprise three main
sections, the first part outlining IDC's progress and problems relative to
project implementation and lending activities. The second part would be
the report on progress and problems relating to NDDB's activities. The third
part would relate to the physical progress of the subprojects which would be
at varying stages of development.
5.        The first part of IDC's quarterly report will eventually contain
basic project data indicated in para 6. This would be followed by a narrative
report summarizing the highlights of the quarter as indicated in paras 6
through 13. Tables prepared by IDC's Project Appraisal Division and attached
to the quarterly report would include information on:
(a) subprojects identified during quarter and agreed with state
government;
(b) subprojects for which feasibility studies are under
preparation;
(c) subprojects under appraisal;
(d) progress of appraisals undertaken in previous quarter;
(e) subprojects appraisals and loan applications recommended to
the IDC board;
(f) subprojects approved by board;
(g) progress of disbursements on loans approved by board;
(h) loan recovery performance;
(i) field missions during the quarter;
(j) IDC board decisions of significance;
(k) Changes in senior executive staff and staff establishment.
6.        Basic Project Data
Date of Credit Agreement
Date of Credit Effectiveness
Closing Date
Total Project Cost at Appraisal             million
Project Funds Expended to end of Quarter



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Amount of IDC Loan Rs                      million
Disbursements as % of Loans
Summary of Progress
(a) Brief summary of progress made during the quarter in respect
to each subproject and for each component of the overall
project.
(b) Major problems encountered in project implementation, together
with the action proposed to overcome these problems. Action
taken since last quarterly report. Comments on new develop-
ments and the outlook and forecast for the next quarter.
(c) For each component and the project as a whole, the problems
encountered in implementing project activities, using as base
data the report forms of milk procurement officers and the
spearhead teams. Summarized financial situation of each
cooperative borrowers for the quarter including information
on equity structure, loans outstanding, reserves, profit
(loss) and grants received.
Management
7.        Report on major changes in the composition of union and federation
boards and advisory committees and its staff and decisions and actions by the
committee. 1/
Project Expenditures and Disbursements
8.        Detail project expenditures under each project component and under
each credit category, and note the main reasons for any significant differ-
ences between actual expenditures and those listed in the credit documenta-
tion.
Marketing
9.        Brief description of market trends and prices for milk, cattle
feed, green fodder, and major agricultural crops with comments on availability
of dairy animals, draft animals and livestock and milk prices.
Farm Management
10.       Important trends occurring in farm management policies and practices
as a result of price trends, technological change and improvement in water
availability. Discussion of any apparent impact of the project on farm and
village income and on the manner this incremental income is being spent.
1/   Minutes of committee meetings would be appended to the quarterly progress
reports submitted to IDC.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Credit
11.       Assessment of demand for credit within the project area, estimate
loans for dairy cattle extended by the banking system, the availability of
crossbred cattle for loan purchase, and the recovery performance on these
loans.
Action Taken
12.       Usefulness and impact of specific measures taken to resolve problems
recognized in the previous report.
Action Proposed
13.       Planned activity to expand project activities and on any actions
required to overcome problems in achieving project objectives.



ANNEX 7
Page  1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Support Materials for Economic and Financial Analysis
General
1.        The economic prices of agricultural crops and inputs entering inter-
national trade are derived from IBRD's projections of 1985 world market prices,
expressed in 1977 currency values appropriately adjusted for freight, handling
and processing. The projected economic prices for non-traded crops
are based on the historical ratios between the prices of these crops and rice.
The financial prices are projected on the basis of their historical price
trends in India and the expectation that large differences between border
prices and farnmgate prices for some crops will gradually diminish. These
values are summarized below in constant Rs.
Financial              Economic /a
(Rs/Ton)               (Rs/Ton)
1977     1985            1977      1985
Paddy                                    900    1,400            1,376    2,150
Wheat                                   1,400    1,630           1,204    1,505
Cotton                                 3,800    3,800            3,096    3,096
'Towar                                    900    1,100              946    1,075
Gram                                   2,000    2,500            2,150    2,451
Groundnut                              1,900    2,000            1,720    1,548
Oilseed                                3,000    3,000            2,451    1,978
Sugarcane                                 120      175             129       172
Milk                                    1,400    1,400           1,204    1,204
Meat                                   4,000    4,500            5,160    5,160
Nitrogen                               3,600    4,000            1,720    3,010
Phosphate                              3,800    3,000            1,720    2,150
Peak Wage Rate                              6        6                4.5      4.5
Peak Animal Power (pairs)                  15        12              10       10
/a   At official exchange rate.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
2.        Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a
fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions of financial prices have been made at
US$1 to Rs 8.60, the average rate prevailing at the time of appraisal.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
3.        In order to take into account the level of protection provided by
tariffs and trade restrictions, a SCF is applied to the price of non-traded
goods and to farm labor. The value of the SCF for India, as calculated by
IDA, is 0.75.
The Price of Milk
4.        Although milk is a non-traded international commodity, skim milk
powder (SMP) butteroil (BO) can be used to reconstitute a fresh milk sub-
stitute which, if blended with fresh milk at a ratio of 30% milk product to
70% fresh milk, is acceptable in most markets. SMP and BO are internation-
ally traded products whose prices show very large variations depending upon
current surplus stocks in North America and the EEC. Because of these price
variations, the establishment of an economic price for reconstituted milk has
proven a vexatious problem. Since the peak prices of 1972, trends in the
import prices of SMP and BO have been downward, and long-term predictions
indicate a blend cif price of SMP and BO equivalent to about US$1,200 per
ton. With local wharf charges, transportation, storage recombination and an
SCF of 0.75, the equivalent economic price of reconstituted milk approximates
Rs 1.41 for 4.5% to 5% fat milk. This price is equivalent to the present
domestic farmgate price of milk. Domestic production costs of milk are de-
tailed in Table 3.2. Economic costs of milk production are determined
principally by the shadow price associated with cattle feed and with the
shadow price of farm labor. The feed used for milk production in rural areas
of India at present is based on crop residues and wasteland grazing and apart
from a very small use of oil cake supplement has a very small economic cost.
The shadow price of farm labor, discussed below, is estimated at about Rs 2
per man-day and at about Rs 0.2 per liter of milk produced. The net economic
benefit of each incremental liter of milk produced has been assessed at 80%
of the economic price.
Fertilizers
5.        GOI exercises statutory control over the prices of fertilizer.
The controlled prices are intended to reflect not only the production costs
of local industry, but also an equalization factor to arrive at a "pool"
price for both local and imported supplies. At the peak of international
prices in 1974, government subsidy on urea amounted to nearly Rs 2,000 per
ton. During recent years, as the world market prices of fertilizer have
decreased, the subsidy has been reduced. For farm budget analysis, the
financial prices of fertilizer have been projected to approach world market
prices.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Agricultural Labor
6.        Because of relatively high underemployment amongst landless and
marginal farmers, current wage levels overstate the opportunity cost of farm
labor. The average rural family can provide about 45 man-days of labor
per month and occupies a land holding of about 5 acres requiring roughly
10 to 100 man-days of labor per month according to the season. Farm labor
availability in the project area of 10 M acres is estimated at 90 M man-days
per month. Estimates of monthly labor requirements for various crops are
summarized in Table 2; the total labor input required each year for the pro-
ject area at present is 541 M man-days. For the purpose of estimating the
economic cost of labor, an "S" shape labor supply curve is assumed. At min-
imum employment levels the marginal cost of labor would be the value of addi-
tional consumption needed for family members to undertake field work. This
off-peak family labor supply is assumed to be 45% of the potential supply and
to incur a slack market wage rate of Rs 1.50 per day.  The marginal cost of
labor requirements in excess of this off-peak rate are assumed to be Rs 4.00
per man-day and at the peak months of employment the wage rate is assumed
to approximate maximum market rates of about Rs 6.00. In simmary, the labor
demand and price for the project area are as follows:
Demand ('000 days)                    40,000           90,000          110,000
Price Rs/man day /a                         1.5              4               6
Present Future Without Future With
Total Labor Demand (000 man-days)           541.2         643.8        1,060.2
Total Labor Cost (Rs M)                 1,111.54       1,432.6        3,080.8
Economic Wage Rate (Rs/day)                  2.05           2.23          2.88
Incremental Labor Demand (Man-days)                      424.4
Incremental Labor Cost (Rs M)                          1,648.19
/a   After application of the SCF
Draft Power
7.        The hire rate for a pair of bullocks (B.P.) is about Rs 15.00 per
day. This is roughly equal to the imputed cost to the owner. In calculating
the farm budgets, rental charges for oxen are included for all crops. The
equivalent supply curve coefficients relating to price and availability, and
demand and cost of bullocks are derived as outlined for the labor analyses
above and may be summarized as follows:
Demand ('000 B.P. days)               10,000          15,000          20,000
Price Rs/B.P. day                          8               12             15



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Present Future Without Future With
Total B.P. Demand (-000 days)              120.16          141.3          173.9
Total B.P. Cost (MRs)                    1,132.67        1,374.2        1,782.9
Economic Rate (Rs/day)                       9.43            9.73          10.27
Incremental B.P. Demand
(H.B.P. days)                                            32.26
Incremental Cost (Rs M)                                   408.70



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.        Basic project cost tables.
2.        Demand for Milk 1975/76 to 1985/86
Projections of NDDB, November 1977.
3.        Supplemental Mission Notes and Tables on Milk Marketing.
4.        Dairy Cooperatives as a Tool of Rural and Social Development
The Amul Story - A Mission Working Paper.
5.        The Impact of Dairy Cooperatives on the Life of Village
Women - A Mission Working Paper.
6.        Putting the Instruments of Rural Development into the Hands
of the Producers - V. Kurien, NDDB, January 1977.
7.        Cooperative Dairying and Profiles of Social Change in India
A.M. Somjee and Geeta Somjee, Simon Fraser University, 1977..
8.        Case Study of Anand Dairy Cooperatives, NDDB and Harvard
Business School, 1977.
9.        Impact of Dairy Enterprise on Productivity and Employment
Amrik Singh and Ray Vir Singh, NDRI, June 1977.
10.       Proposal for setting up a Paper Lamination Plan - Project
Feasibility Report, July 1977.
11.       An Applied Research and Development Proposal, NDDB Consultant
Report, 1977.
12.       The Complementarity of Milk and Foodgrain Production - A
Mission Working Paper, March 1978.
13.       NDDB Financial Summary.
14.       Operation Flood II - a project proposal by the NDDB.
15.       Operation Flood II - Techno-Economic Feasibility.



MAJOR URBAN MILK MARKETS
CITY                          POPULATION          CITY                     POPULATION
(in millions)                                (in millions)
Calcutta                         7.03             Cochin                       0.44
Bombay                           5.97             Dhanbad                      0.43
Delhi                            3.65             Srinagar                      0.42
Madras                           3.17             Salem                         0.42
Trivandrum                   0.41
1.  Hyderabad                    1.80             Owalior                      0.41
2.  Ahmedabad                    1.74             Ludhiana                     0.40
3.  Bangalore                    1.65             Sholapur                     0.40
4.  Kanpur                       1.28             Ulhasnagar                   0.40
5.  Poona                        1.14             Bhopal                       0.39
6.  Nagpur                       0.93             Hubli-Dharwar                0.38
7.  Lucknow                      0.81             Meerut                       0.37
8r  Coimbatore                   0.74             Visakhapalnam                0.36
9.  Madurai                      0.71             Mysore                       0.36
10. Jaipur                       0.64             ViJaywada                    0.34
11. Agra                         0.63             Calicut                      0.33
12. Varanasi                     0.61             Bareilly                     0.33
13. Indora                       0.56             Jodhpur      -               0.32
14. Jabalpur                     0.53             Rajkot                       0.30 -
15. Allahabad                    0.51             Jullunder                    0.30
Moradabad                    0,27
Other Cities (population over 200,000             Guntur                       0.27
and less than 500,000)              Kolhapur                      0.27
Nasik                    -   0.27
Surat                            0.49             Tirunelveli                  0.27
Patna                            0.49             Ajmer                        0.26
Baroda                           0.47             Randri                       0.26
Amritsar                         0.46             Aligarh                      0.25
Jamshadpur                       0.46             Durg-Bhilainagar             0.25
Tiruchirapalli                   0.46             Asansol                      0.24
Chandigarh                       0.23
Gorakhpur                        0.23
Jamnagar                         0.23
Bhavnagar                        0.23
Saharnpur                        0.23
Mangalore                        0.22
Belgaum                          0.22
Kota                             0.21
Bikaner                          0.21
Ujani                            0.21
Warrangal                        0.21
Thana                            0.21
Durgapur                         0.21
Raipur                           0.21
Cuttack                          0.21
Dehradun                         0.20
Sangli                           0.20
Gauhati                          0.20
Ihansi                           0.20






IBRD 1343d
70                              Sci J  _,,,,,9,E,   eo                       | N D I A                               ,MARCH 1978
INDIA
AFGHANlSTAN                                                    N 9~{.  \_   ->               NATIONAL DAIRY PROJECT
*                  ,,> i,..' N7regnsof9l   <Present Dairy Development Areas and Major Milk Markets
<le 44 LI j   rrnd KA SbY, Al   !DECEMBER 1977
.  $ 0  ~  |Oper-tion Flood I
World Bank Projects (Cr 482, 521, 522-IN)
H/MA Cc/A                        ~                         r > | 0 tDrought Prone Area Progrom(  Cr. 526- IN
-HI-!  *-'  0   PRADtSE                            0     Major Crties
0    C ties oith Over 500,000 Population (See Tble)
PAK ISTAN   .i *. A v        * r                                C cCt es with More Than 200000 ond Less Thon 500000 Populotion
.f } ( ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~~de,,tifiecl Long Disoc-e Mo-eents ofM Ik and Milk Podu,t,
-   Internotionol Bcundories                             l
.  a /   /    -  State Bo,ndories
/       _           EWW DE~~~~LHI                    s      .J                                                 RAD 5        !
F 7A R          NEPAL                                                 C~SL       
PRA DESH                                                B *  @  BHUTAN
A/AD H (A                       >           4 *   9   BEHGA(?  *gt v S S A  M
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-7                                                                                B~~~~~~~~~~~P DS  ANGLADESH
01
06       0~7 
S  S     5                                                          6 ~~~ARA  HTR
KAPNA PAPA         -HRA 



