CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 824 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(National Dairy Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 824 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Indian Dairy
Corporation (hereinafter referred to as IDC) and the National
Dairy Development Board (hereinafter referred to as NDDB) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to IDC and NDDB the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreemept of even date herewith between the Association and
IDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and IDC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and IDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "sub-project" means a project for which a loan is
made or proposed to be made to a dairy cooperative union or
federation under the Project by IDC out of the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to IDC by the Borrower under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
to finance a sub-project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, 1988, and ending May 1, 2028,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IDC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable IDC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Credit equivalent to one hundred and forty-six million dollars
($146,000,000) to IDC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDC under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association which shall include those
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of
making sub-loans to dairy cooperative unions and federations.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-4-
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NDDB to carry
out Part F of the Project and shall take or cause to be taken all
necessary action, including providing funds, facilities, services,
other resources and making part of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000) available as a
grant to NDDB, for the purpose.
(b) In order to assist NDDB to carry out Part F of the
Project, NDDB may employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes, or shall cause NDDB,
to insure, or to make adequate provision for the insurance of the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
under Part F of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower or NDDB to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause NDDB to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Part F of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NDDB: (i) to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part
F of the Project (including its cost and impact), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in Part F of the Project; (ii) to enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part F of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part F of the
Project, its cost and impact, the expenditure of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall cause NDDB to: (i) have its accounts
established for Part F of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors nominated by the
Borrower and acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of NDDB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part F of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall cause NDDB to
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of Part F of the Project, its
cost and impact, the performance by NDDB and the Association of
their respective functions or obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause IDC and NDDB to review
with the Association, at least once each year, the annual work
programs of IDC and NDDB in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) IDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of IDC or NDDB, or for the suspension of operations of IDC or
NDDB; and
(c) an extraordinary sttuation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that IDC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have, been given by the Association
to the Borrower and IDC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and IDC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the optnion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by IDC, and is legally binding upon IDC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and IDC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and IDC in accordance with its terms.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. The date September 19, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con4itiqns.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date op
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretarys Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrpwer
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By Is/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, materials          60,000,000
and vehicles
(a) directly imported                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured locally                         100% of local
through interna-                         expenditures
tional competi-                          (ex-factory
tive bidding                             cost)
(c) procured through                          60%
procedures other
than international
competitive bidding
(2) Establishment costs,          81,000,000      60%
including civil works,
of dairy cooperative
societies, unions and
federations other
than Category (1)
(3) Consultant and tech-           4,000,000      100%
nical assistance
services
(4) Unallocated                    5,000,000
TOTAL        150,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures for training and technical assistance before that date but
after January 1, 1978.
5.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, notwith-
standing the provisions of paragraph 1 above, withdrawals in
respect of:
(a) payments for expenditures under Categories (1) and
(3) shall be made only against full documentation submitted to
the Association; and
(b) payments for expenditures under Category (2) may be made
against statements of expenditure prepared by IDC.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated


﻿- 11 -
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower's national
dairy development program (Operation Flood II) intended to
increase the production of milk through the development of
supporting facilities and services, and the formation of dairy
cooperative societies, unions and federations. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
A.   The establishment of about 20,000 dairy cooperative
societies, grouped together into unions and about 25 feder-
ations.
B.   The provision of animal health, artificial insemination
and other related extension services to dairy cooperative
societies under the Project.
C.   The construction of dairy processing facilities of unions and
federations with a total incremental capacity of about 5
million liters per day.
D.   The development of packaging, distribution and transport
facilities of unions, federations and IDC with incremental
marketing capacity of about 4.5 million liters of liquid milk
per day.
E.   The development of storage and long-distance transport
facilities to support the establishment of a buffer stock
of dairy products, and the development of a national milk
marketing network.
F.   Strengthening and expansion of NDDB's program of training and
research with supporting facilities and staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms for On-lending to IDC
1.   Interest rate:                  7.5% per annum
2.   Amortization period:            20 years
Terms for IDC Financial Assistance
1.   Amount of sub-loan from         70% of the investment
proceeds of Credit:           cost of a sub-project
2.   Amount of IDC grant:            not more than 30% of
the investment cost of
sub-project
3.   Interest rate on sub-loan:      8.5% per annum
4.   Amortization on sub-loan:       20 years, inclusive of
maximum 5 year grace
period on interest and
principal, the interest
during grace period to
be capitalized


