CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 824 IN
Project Agreement
(National Dairy Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 824 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and INDIAN
DAIRY CORPORATION (hereinafter called IDC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and fifty million dollars
($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that IDC agree
to undertake such obligaiions toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IDC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to IDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS IDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. IDC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist IDC in carrying out the
Project, IDC may employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to thl.s Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) IDC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery t.reof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by IDC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, IDC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) IDC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) IDC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and impact), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represent-
atives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its annual work programs, budgets, and quarterly
progress reports, its cost and impact, the expenditures of
such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between IDC and the
Association, IDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and impact, the performance by IDC and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) IDC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of IDC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. IDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, IDC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. IDC shall take all necessary action to promote
the establishment of dairy cooperative societies, unions and
federations in accordance with the provisions of Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.08. IDC shall not make sub-loans to dairy coopera-
tive unions and federations unless such unions and federations are
organized and registered under conttitutions and by-laws which are
in conformity with models acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.09. IDC shall, in its appraisal of every sub-
project to be financed under the Project, (a) apply a set of
criteria for the appraisal of sub-projects acceptable to the
Association, and (b) include a market analysis of the sub-project.
Section 2.10. IDC shall submit the first five sub-projects
appraised by it for review by the Association before such sub-
projects are approved by IDC. Subsequently, IDC shall submit
sub-projects approved by it fur review by the Association.
Section 2.11. (a) IDC shall take all necessary action to
cause all dairy cooperative societies, unions and federations, as
and when they are established, to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
the relevant Registrar of Cooperative Societies in each State or
Union Territory of the Borrower's territory; (ii) furnish to IDC
as soon as available, and, except as IDC shall otherwise agree,
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements of the said dairy
cooperative societies, unions and federations for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit of the financial state-
ments of the said Unions by said Registrar, of such scope and in
such detail as IDC shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of all dairy cooperative
societies, unions and federations and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 2.12. IDC shall monitor the progress of each approved
sub-project against specific targets acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Section 2.13. (a) The Association and IDC shall exchange
views, as may be necessary from time to time, with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of the obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) IDC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by IDC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of IDC
Section 3.01. IDC shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. IDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. IDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
3tatements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the said
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of IDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify IDC of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For IDC:
Indian Dairy Corporation
'Darpan', R.C. Dutt Road
Baroda - 390005
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDAIRY                            175 239 IDC IN
Baroda
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of IDC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and IDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
By /s/ J. 3. Baijal
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and materials
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, IDC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. IDC shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to IDC of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of equipment and materials in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods
manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-9-
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India Tf the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of IDC and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 10 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and materials costing less than
$100,000 when grouped together may be awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion, except that such contracts may be awarded on the basis of
prudent shopping for urgently needed items aggregating not more
than $2,000,000.
D.   Civil Works and Vehicles
1.   Contracts for civil works and vehicles shall be awarded in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts for equipment, vehicles
and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
more, before bids are invited, IDC shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) With respect to all contracts for equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, after
bids have been received and evaluated, IDC shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it is intended to award the contract and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform IDC and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 11 -
(c) The terms and conditions of contracts shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of contracts shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, IDC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guideltnes or this Schedule, promptly inform IDC and state the
reasons fo7 such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any materiLil modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, IDC shall inform the Associa-
tion of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform IDC and state the reasons
for its determination.


