Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3738 JO
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Telecommunications Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                   JORDAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                            Dated June 28, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3738 JO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JORDAN  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION (the Borrower).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
    (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment
Bank, the Japan Export Import Bank, the Swedish Board for Investments and
Technical Support, the Overseas Development Agency, and other external
sources of funds (collectively, the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to about one hundred thirteen million
dollars ($113,000,000) (Cofinancing) to assist in financing the Project on
terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
Page  2
    (D)   the Borrower intends to issue bonds up to an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), pursuant to
the Expanded Cofinancing Operations of the Bank, as a portion of the
Cofinancing; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of the
Borrower pursuant to Law No. 29 of 1971, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
    (b)   "By-laws" means the Wireless Telegraphy By-law of 1966; By-law
Regulating Telex Services No. 16 of 1975; By-law Regulating the Relationship
between Ministries and Public Bodies No. 16 of 1988; Civil Service By-law
of 1988; and By-law Regulating Telephone Services No. 61 of 1992, as amended
to the date of this Agreement;
    (c)   "Letter of Sector Policy" means the Guarantor's letter and
attached action matrix dated May 2, 1994 concerning its objectives in the
telecommunications sector to: (i) develop telecommunications infrastructure
and services to support the economic, social and cultural development of the
Guarantor; (ii) develop an enabling legal framework which would encourage
investment in the telecommunications sector; and (iii) increase the avail-
ability and efficiency of telecommunications services at prices reflecting
their economic cost;
    (d)   "MOPC" means the Guarantor's Ministry of Posts and Communications;
    (e)   "the Company Law" means Law No. 1 of 1989 of the Guarantor; and
    (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
Page  3
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
Page  4
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Part A (4) and Part B of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Letter of Sector
Policy and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
    Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with: (i) sound engineering, financial and administrative
practices; and (ii) environmental and occupational health and safety
standards acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
    Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all measures
necessary to maintain its corporate existence, to carry on its operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all such rights, powers, privileges and
franchises as shall be necessary or useful for its operations or the
carrying out of the Project.
    Section 4.05. Except in the normal course of its business, the Borrower
shall not, without the Bank's prior consent, sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets required for the
efficient conduct of its business or the carrying out of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
Page  5
operations and financial condition.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than: (i) four months after the end of such year,
                drafts of its financial statements for such year; and (ii)
                six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
                copies of its financial statements for such year as so
                audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
    Section 5.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all measures, including proposing adjustments of its
tariffs, so that it shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, an annual return of not less than
15% of the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
operation.
    (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's fiscal years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, proposing adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
Page  6
          (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the
                Borrower's net operating income for the fiscal year in
                question by one half of the sum of the current net value of
                the Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the beginning
                and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total operating
                revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
                sources related to operations.
         (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                related to operations, including administration, adequate
                maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a
                rate of not less than 5% per annum of the average current
                gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation, or
                other basis acceptable to the Bank, or as required by
                applicable law, but excluding interest and other charges on
                debt.
          (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower's fixed
                assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the
                sum of the gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
                operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal
                year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                and consistently maintained methods of valuation.
         (vi)   The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
                in operation" means the gross value of the Borrower's fixed
                assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
                depreciation, as valued from time to time in accordance
                with sound and consistently maintained methods of
                valuation; provided however, for the fiscal year in which
                the Borrower is registered under the Company Law, the
                current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
                operation shall be equivalent to the valuation determined
                for the purposes of such registration.
    Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall maintain at all times a ratio of net revenues to debt service
requirements of at least 1.5 to 1.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
                which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                       operations and net non-operating income; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations
                       including administration, adequate maintenance,
                       taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                       provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related
Page  7
                       to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                       taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                       above.
          (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guaran-
                tor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
                be made on the basis of the prevailing official rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after
December 31, 1995 the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of debt to equity of
not more than 1.5 to 1.
    (b)   For purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
                which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired
                paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the
                Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
         (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guaran-
                tor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
                be made on the basis of the prevailing official rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
                such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall finance local expenditures of the
Project only from its net revenues.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
                currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
                from the territory of the Guarantor.
        (ii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                       operations and net non-operating income; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations
                       including administration, adequate maintenance,
                       taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                       provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
Page  8
                (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related
                       to operations; and
                (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                       taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                       above.
    Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank annual reports
in such detail as shall be reasonably determined by the Bank to show the
average age of outstanding subscriber receivables.
    (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the average outstanding subscriber
receivables have been reduced to the following days of revenue equivalent:
(a) 150 days by December 31, 1994; (b) 120 days by December 31, 1995; and
(c) 75 days by December 31, 1998 and thereafter.
    Section 5.07. Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall provide to the Bank the proposed capital expenditure program
for the succeeding five year period, together with details of the financing
plan prepared for such program.  Promptly thereafter, the Borrower and the
Bank shall exchange views thereon, and the Borrower shall take all actions
necessary to ensure the availability of the funds required for the carrying
out of such capital expenditure program.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   The Articles of Association or the By-laws shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of the Borrower or its
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.
    (b)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with
its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided
in the contractual instruments relative thereto, or any security for any
such loan shall have become enforceable.
    (c)   The agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers shall have failed to become effective by September 30, 1995,
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
    (d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                       of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                       financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                       cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                       pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                       prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
                (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.
Page  9
    Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of
that Section.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   the Borrower shall have received firm commitments from the
Cofinanciers for the Cofinancing;
    (b)   the new Telecommunications Law referred to in Part A (1) of the
Project shall have been approved by the Council of Ministers of the
Guarantor and presented to Parliament;
    (c)   consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank shall have been appointed to carry out Part A of the Project on terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (d)   the Borrower's By-laws shall have been amended to provide autonomy
with respect to procurement, financial and personnel matters;
    Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For the Borrower:
          Director General
          Jordan Telecommunications Corporation
          Post Office Box 1689
          Amman
Page  10
          The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                JORTEL                     21221 JO
                Amman
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                       Regional Vice President
                       Middle East and North Africa
                       JORDAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                       By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                       Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Outside plant            14,300,000         100% of foreign
    cable                                       expenditures
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Computer equipment        4,500,000         100% of foreign
    and software                                expenditures
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Technical                   600,000         100% of foreign
    assistance and                              expenditures and
    training under                              95% of local
    Part B (5) of                               expenditures
    the Project
(4) Unallocated                 600,000
                              __________
Page  11
      TOTAL                  20,000,000
                              ==========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to improve efficiency of
telecommunications services in the territory of the Guarantor through: (a)
enhancing the quality of telecommunications services, expanding network
capacity and increasing geographical coverage; (b) developing a market-
oriented sector policy and a transparent regulatory framework; (c)
commercializing the Borrower and registering it under the Company Law; (d)
preparing and implementing a strategy and action plan for privatization of
the Borrower; and (e) encouraging new investment in the telecommunications
sector by private operators.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sector Restructuring
    Carrying out of the following technical assistance program:
1.  Provision of legal assistance to: (a) develop an interim arrangement to
govern the telecommunications sector; (b) prepare the Borrower's By-Laws on
an interim basis to increase its autonomy; (c) register the Borrower under
the Company Law of the Guarantor; and (d) prepare a new Telecommunications
Law which would include the establishment of an independent regulatory
office for the telecommunications sector.
2.  Establishment of a Sector Policy Division at the Ministry of Posts and
Communication to provide the basis for tariff setting, spectrum management,
competition and the role of the private sector in the telecommunications
sector.
3.  Promulgation of regulations for the telecommunications sector,
establishment of a regulatory office for the enforcement thereof, and
issuance of a new license for the Borrower's operations.
4.  Development of the Borrower's organization and management, including
review of the Borrower's organizational structure, introduction of
financial, administrative and operations information systems, and
development of a human resources management system.
Part B:   Physical Infrastructure
1.  Provision of additional lines of switching equipment, including the
establishment of approximately 20 new main exchanges and 80 new remote
subscriber units and other types of rural systems, as well as the expansion
Page  12
of existing main exchanges and distant sites;
2.  Provision of microwave or optical fiber junctions to provide links
between main exchanges and national and international gateways and between
remote subscriber units and corresponding main exchanges;
3.  Provision of associated local networks for the connection of new
subscribers;
4.  Construction of buildings and provision of power and air conditioning
equipment to house switching and transmission equipment and the local
outside plant network, and formation of an initial spare parts stock;
5.  Provision of computerized customer service billing, collection and
operation support systems, and provision of local and overseas training in
planning, operation and management of telecommunications networks and
utilization of new systems; and
6.  Provision of technical assistance for project management and
supervision.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
    November 1, 1999                     380,000
    May 1, 2000                          395,000
    November 1, 2000                     405,000
    May 1, 2001                          420,000
    November 1, 2001                     435,000
    May 1, 2002                          455,000
    November 1, 2002                     470,000
    May 1, 2003                          485,000
    November 1, 2003                     505,000
    May 1, 2004                          520,000
    November 1, 2004                     540,000
    May 1, 2005                          560,000
    November 1, 2005                     580,000
    May 1, 2006                          605,000
    November 1, 2006                     625,000
    May 1, 2007                          645,000
    November 1, 2007                     670,000
    May 1, 2008                          695,000
    November 1, 2008                     720,000
    May 1, 2009                          745,000
    November 1, 2009                     775,000
    May 1, 2010                          800,000
    November 10, 2010                    830,000
    May 1, 2011                          860,000
    November 1, 2011                     895,000
    May 1, 2012                          925,000
    November 1, 2012                     960,000
    May 1, 2013                          995,000
    November 1, 2013                   1,030,000
    May 1, 2014                        1,075,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
Page  13
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  International Shopping:
Page  14
    Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $600,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from two countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
2.  Local Shopping:
    Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $600,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B (5) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  (a)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, commencing three months after the effective date of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly
progress reports, in form and substance agreed to between the Bank and the
Borrower;
    (b)   the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank annual
comparisons of its performance indicators with technical, operational
Page  15
(including subscriber connections and service quality), financial and
staffing targets;
    (c)   the Borrower, MOPC, the Guarantor and the Bank shall, not later
than August 31, 1996, hold a mid-term exchange of views on the progress
achieved carrying out the Project;
    (d)   prior to such mid-term exchange of views, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and
    (e)   based upon such mid-term exchange of views, the Borrower, together
with MOPC and the Guarantor, shall promptly prepare an action plan
acceptable to the Bank for the further implementation of the Project and
shall thereafter implement such action plan.
2.  The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1995, review with the Bank the findings
and recommendations of a tariff study under Part A (2) of the Project to
determine the economic cost of services provided to end users and
interconnections provided to other service providers, and the measures
proposed by the Borrower to be taken on the basis of such recommendations.
Commencing June 30, 1995, on the basis of such recommendations and exchange
of views, the Borrower shall carry out a program to restructure and
rebalance telecom- munications tariffs in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
Page  16
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
