Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3738 JO
                            Guarantee Agreement
                       (Telecommunications Project)
                                  between
                      THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 28, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3738 JO
                            GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1994, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF
JORDAN (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Jordan Telecommunications Corporation
(the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such
obligations of the Borrower;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                       Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the
prepayment of the Loan.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required
for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
      Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Parts A (1), A (2) and
A (3) of the Project through MOPC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall carry out Parts A (1), A (2) and A (3) of the Project in
accordance with the Letter of Sector Policy.
                                ARTICLE III
                              Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall take all necessary
or appropriate actions in order to enable the Borrower to meet its
obligations under Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall provide to the Bank for its review
and comments, by June 30, 1995, proposed regulations for the
telecommunications sector under Part A (3) of the Project.  Promptly
thereafter, the Guarantor shall promulgate regulations for the
telecommunications sector, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, by June 30, 1995, register the
Borrower under Article 8 of the Company Law.
Page  3
      Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, by December 31, 1995, review with
the Bank the findings and recommendations of the study referred to in the
Letter of Sector Policy to prepare a strategy and action plan for
privatization of the Borrower. Thereafter, on the basis of such
recommendations and exchange of views, the Guarantor shall carry out such
action plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Minister of Planning of the Guarantor is designated
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            Ministry of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTRY OF                21319 JO
                    PLANNING
                  Amman
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                        By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
Page  4
