FILE  COPY                   ~~RESTRICTED
Report No.  TO-687a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do-not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
IRAN
March 3, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           Rials 75.75
Rial 1          - US$0.0132013
Rials 1,000,000 = US$13,201
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)               = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)             = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)     = 0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)     3              39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (=3)           - 35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3) = 810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)            - 0.039 inches
1 square meter (m2)          - 10.76 square feet
INITIALS
DIP   - Dez Irrigation Project
DPIP - Dez-Pilot Irrigation Project
D & R - Development and Resources Corporation
KWPA  - Khuzestan Water and Power Authority



I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUN4ARY .............................................
I.          INTRODUCTION    .........       ...............................       1
II.         BACKGROUND ..........         ................................        2
III.        THE PROJECT AREA ....................................                 3
General ........         .        .      .      .............         3
Climate ............        .................................         4
Soils, Topography and Drainage ......................                 5
Land Distribution and Tenure ........................                 5
Agricultural Production .............................                 6
Transportation ........           ..............................      6
IV.         THE PROJECT ..........          ...............................       6
Proposed Works ........           ..............................       7
Water Demand, Supply and Quality .....             ...............    8
Status of Engineering and Construction Schedule             .....     9
Cost Estimates    ......................................              9
Financing ...........         ................................       10
Procurement ..........          ...............................      11
Auditing of Accounts     ................................            12
V.          AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ............................                12
Large-scale Mechanized Farming ......................                12
Improved Traditional Farming ........................                13
Yields and Production ...............................                14
Marketing .......                                                    15
VI.         ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................                16
Khuzestan Water and Power Authority ....             .............   16
Engineering Department ..............................                17
Agricultural Services Department .....             ...............   1&
VII.        FINANCIAL RESULTS ...................................                19
Operation and Maintenance Costs .19
Water Charges .........          ..............................      19
Farmers' Income .....................................                20



-2-
Page No.
VIII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................     20
IX.       CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................     21
ANNEXES
1.   Dez Pilot Irrigation Project
2.   Water Demand, Supply and Quality
3.   Construction Schedule
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Operation and Maintenance Equipment List
b.   Present and Future Cropping Patterns
7.   Marketing
8.   Organization and Management
9.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP
Dez Irrigation Project
This report was prepared by Messrs. Golan and Bolt, and is based on findings
of several missions which visited Iran in 1967 and 1968.



I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
SU14MARY
i.        The Government of Iran has requested a Bank loan of US$ 30 million
to assist in financing the development of the Dez Irrigation Project (DIP)
in the upper Khuzestan Plain. In 1960 the Bank made a loan of US$ 42 million
(247-IRI) to help finance the Dez Multipurpose Project. About US$ 41.3 mil-
lion out of the loan was used to finance the Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam
and associated hydroelectric works, and the balance of US$ 700,000 for the
20,000 ha Dez Pilot Irrigation Project (DPIP).
ii.       The project proposed for Bank financing is Stage I in the progres-
sive development of the Dez Irrigation Project. Within the total project
area of 57,000 ha, which includes the 20,000 ha already served by an irriga-
tion system in the DPIP, a new irrigation and drainage system would be con-
structed on 37,000 ha. On-farm development would be carried out over the
whole project area.
iii.      The estimated capital cost of the project (Stage I), including
US$ 5.4 million for interest during construction, is Rls 5,630 million,
(US$ 74.3 million equivalent) of which US$ 30 million would be in foreign
exchange. Two contracts, amounting to US$ 10.9 million equivalent, were
awarded in 1967. The entire cost of these contracts is treated in the esti-
mates as local currency expenditures and would not be financed out of the
loan.  The proposed Bahk loan of US$ 30 million, about 40% of the total esti-
mated cost, would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project and would
be used to finance payments for civil works, purchase of operation and main-
tenance equipment and farm machinery, foreign consulting services and interest
on the Bank loan during the construction period. The cost per hectare of the
irrigation and drainage system and on-farm development works would be about
US$ 1,200 which is average for this type of project.
iv.       The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA), a regional agency
of the Ministry of Water and Power, would have overall responsibility for
project implementation.   Construction of project works would-be performed by
contractors to be selected after international competitive bidding and super-
vised by consultants. The consultants would also assist in carrying out
necessary studies, the establishment of supporting services, and the operation
of these services during the initial years of the project.
v.        Allowing for the increase in production costs, including imputed
wages to family labor, and annual costs of operation and maintenance of proj-
ect facilities and supporting agricultural services, the annual incremental
net value of production to the economy at full agricultural development would
be about Rls 850 million (us$ 11.3 million). The internal rate of return to
the economy would be about 12%.



- ii -
vi.       Construction of all project facilities would be completed in 1974.
The project is technically sound and economically advantageous to Iran and
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 30 million for a term of 20 years including
a grace period of six years. The borrower would be the Government of Iran.



I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iran has requested a Bank loan of US$ 30 million
to assist in financing the further development of the Dez Irrigation Project
(DIP) in the upper Khuzestan Plain. In 1960, the Bank made a loan of US$ 42
million (247-IRN) to help finance the Dez Multipurpose Project which, in
addition to the Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam and associated hydroelectric
works, included the 20,000 ha Dez Pilot Irrigation Project (DPIP). The proj-
ect now proposed for Bank financing would be Stage I of the Dez Irrigation
Project. Including the DPIP, it would develop irrigated agriculture by ex-
tending the irrigation system and providing drainage, on-farm development and
agricultural services over a total area of 57,000 ha.
1.02      This report is based on material and reports prepared by the
Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA), a regional agency of the Ministry
of Water and Power responsible for regional development in Khuzestan, and
its consultants, Development and Resources Corporation (D & R) of New York,
as well as on the findings of several Bank missions. In 1967, the Government
of Iran submitted to the Bank a feasibility study for the development of the
project. In November, 1967, an appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. E.M.
Sicely, A. Golan, H. Rinnan and K.E. Snelson (FAO), visited the project area
and recommended further soils investigation by a team of soils experts. To
carry out the investigation, the Bank employed Messrs. D.S. Mitchell, C.A.
Bower, J.K. Coulter and H.L. Parkinson as consultants. These experts visited
the project in February, 1968, to review the soils problems. They concluded
that, although some of the project soils have a slow infiltration capacity
and would require careful water management, the soils on the whole are suit-
able for sustained irrigation. While in Iran, the mission was joined by
Mr. E.M. Sicely and briefly by Mr. A. Golan. After the soils mission had
completed its work, Messrs. Mitchell and Sicely discussed with the Government
a possible phasing of the project in which the first stage would consist of
63,000 ha (including the 20,000 ha of the DPIP) located primarily on the east
bank of the Dez River with only a small portion in the upper west bank area.
1.03      In February, 1968, the Government of Iran and KWPA agreed in prin-
ciple with the proposal to phase the project, and in May a further appraisal
mission visited Iran. Members of the mission were Messrs. T.C. Creyke, C.M.
Bolt, A. Golan and D.S. Mitchell (consultant). The mission reviewed a Govern-
ment proposal which would restrict the first stage to the development of a
total area of new land of some 37,000 ha in addition to completing development
of 20,000 ha in the DPIP. After examining the available drainage and soils
data, the mission accepted the Government proposal. This report was prepared
by Messrs. Golan and Bolt.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Iran's territory extends over an area of 1.62 million km    (628,000
sq mi), roughly four times the area of California. According to the 1966
,census, the population is 25.8 million and is growing at about 3% annually.
Per capita income based on the latest census is uS$ 238. Gross national
product at market prices (1967/68) is US$ 7.5 billion equivalent, and has
been rising at 7.1% annually in real terms since 1960. However in the agri-
cultural sector, which represents about 23% of gross national product and
employs nearly half of the labor force, the annual growth was only 2.3%e
during the corresponding period.
2.02      Iran's main crops in value terms are wheat, fruits, cotton, rice
and vegetables. Production is mostly carried out on small farm units by
traditional methods of production, and yields are generally low.   Overall
production of agricultural products varies greatly from year to year, and
Iran must often resort to imports of sugar, wheat and vegetable oils. During
the period 1962-1967, the average level of these imports, excluding 1964/65,
which was an exceptionally dry year, was US$ 40.0 million annually. However,
these imports account for only about 7% of total imports. Iran also imports
part of its meat supply, annual imports over the past six years averaging
about Us$ 5.5 million. The main export crops are cotton and dried and fresh
fruits averaging about US$ 56 million annually, or 35% of total-exports
(excluding oil exports) during the corresponding period.
2.03      A nation-wide land reform was introduced in 1962.   Under the reform
law, no person may own more than the equivalent of one village, the balance
to be distributed among the farmers. A second phase of the reform was intro-
duced in early 1965, aiming mainly at improving the tenancy arrangements of
the estimated one million remaining tenant families. As a result of the
second phase, nearly 90% of all landlords now lease their lands to farmers
for a 30-year period at fixed cash rentals. With an assured tenure arrange-
ment, farmers are more apt to improve their lands, and the fixed rental pay-
ments provide greater incentives to increasing yields.   A third phase of the
reform, under which farmers would receive title to the land, is currently
being prepared by the Government.
2.04      Apart from the Caspian area, most of the country is semi-arid, and
progressive agriculture is largely dependent upon irrigation. Some parts of
Iran have excellent water resources, especially the southwest where the prov-
-ince of Khuzestan is located, but these resources are under-utilized at
present.  Roughly 44% of the total area of 7.1 million ha under cultivation
is irrigated. Much of the irrigated area, however, does not have an assured
supply of water and consequently suffers from recurrent crop failures. Irri-
gation is used mainly to supplement rainfall and there is therefore little
cropping during the summer period.
2.05      Faced with a rapidly growing population, Iran must improve its
agricultural production urgently. This would necessitate a radical improve-
ment in agricultural practices and the provision of assured water supplies.
To that end the Fourth Five Year Plan, introduced earlier this year, calls



-3-
for the development of 400,000 ha of irrigated land. While such a program is
extremely ambitious, it is no doubt needed if Iran is to meet the growing
internal demand for foodstuffs while also expanding its agricultural exports.
2.06      The area to be brought under irrigation during the Fourth Five
Year Plan period includes the project lands lying below the Mohammad Reza
Shah Pahlavi Dam on the Dez River. Construction of the dam, the first two
generating units and transmission lines, was completed in early 1963. The
foreign exchange cost of this development was financed by a Bank Loan
(247-IRN), amounting to US$ 42 million. About US$ 0.7 million of the Loan
was used to assist in the development of the Dez Pilot Irrigation Project
on 20,000 ha. The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority was set up in 1960 to
implement the project, as well as future development activities in the region.
Following the establishment of the Ministry of Water and Power in 1964, KWPA
became a regional agency of the new Ministry.
2.07      Work on the DPIP was started in 1963.   It included the construction
of a temporary diversion intake on the left bank of the Dez River below
Dezful, a canal system, roads, drains, buildings and facilities, the procure-
ment of equipment and the establishment by KWPA of various agricultural and
technical services. All these works have been completed. However, nearly
all of the lands in the area have still to be leveled. There is also need
for additional sub-surface drainage. The cost of the DPIP to date, including
supporting services, is US$ 27 million equivalent. Despite difficulties
arising out of implementation of the Land Reform Law and failure to level
much of the irrigated area, the gross value of production (at constant prices)
on the DPIP almost tripled between 1963 and 1968. While this was no small
accomplishment, it should be borne in mind that the initial level of produc-
tion was very low. In the process, KWPA has gained some experience in build-
ing an organizational structure which could be enlarged to serve the new
areas to be brought under irrigation. Further details of the DPIP are pre-
sented in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Dez Irrigation Project, of which the proposed project is Stage
I, covers about 125,000 ha of irrigable land. It is bounded on the north by
the foothills of the Zagros range, on the east by the Shureh River, on the
south by the KWPA Sugar Cane Plantation in the vicinity of the Haft Tapeh
ridge, and on the west by the Karkheh River (see map). The area is favorably
placed with regard to most of the environmental requirements of schemes of
this type. It has an assured water supply of satisfactory quality from the
Dez River; the topography and soils are in general suitable for irrigation;
the communications to metropolitan and export markets are good; and the people
of the area are traditionally linked to farming, and acclimatized to the
extremely wide seasonal variations in temperature experienced in this part of
Iran.



- 4 -
3.02      The Dez Irrigation Project Stage I, which is the subject of this
report, would consist of 57,000 ha, including the 20,000 ha of the DPIP,
located on the east and west banks of the Dez River (see map). The rural
population within the project area is about 38,000, located in some 128
villages. Also located within the boundaries of the project area are the
city of Dezful. and the towns of Andimeshk and Shush with a total population
of about 92,000 people.
Climate
3.03      The climate of the project area is arid, characteristically very
hot in summer and cool in winter. The exceptional heat experienced for long
periods in the project area is indicated by the mean maximum daily tergera-
ture which exceeds 350C (950F) for six successive months and 4o C (104 F) for
four months. The prolonged and desiccating heat causes a natural disinclina-
tion towards physical effort by labor and livestock during the daytime in
mid-summer, and this has to be taken into account in the agricultural pro-
duction pattern for the project. Slight frost (-1.5 C) has occurred occa-
sionally in December and, less frequently, in November, January and February.
The occurrence of sub-zero temperatures is not, however, an agricultural
hazard for a wide range of crops. The average annual rainfall recorded at
Dezful over 15 years is only 330 mm (13 in), and the amount of annual winter
rainfall which is effective for crop growth is estimated to be only 150 mm
(6 in). As a result of the high temperatures and low humidity, the crop
irrigation requirements are amongst the highest in the world.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.04      Soils of the project area were surveyed in 1958 by the Food and
Agriculture Organization, who prepared land classification and soils maps
of the area at a scale of 1:50,000. Soils of the pilot project (DPIP) were
also investigated by Nederlandsche Heidemaatschappij in 1960-1961. A special
soils mission was engaged by the Bank to review soil conditions in the project
area in February 1968. Additional investigation of soils and drainage re-
quirements would be required in areas having more complex problems before
starting construction of the drainage systems.
3.05      Soils formed from sediments deposited by the Dez River are gener-
ally of medium texture and have medium to good permeability,-while soils
deposited by the Karkheh River tend to be somewhat heavier and their permea-
bilities range from medium to slow. The siltier soils are dense, and conse-
quently the infiltration rate is restricted. Appropriate water management
practices would have to be adopted to cope with this problem. However, both
groups of soils are inherently fertile and, when provided with adequate irri-
gation and drainage under proper management, they should be very productive.
3.o6      The general topography of the project is suitable for irrigation
development. The slope of the land is generally from north to south, with
gradients ranging from about 1.0% in the north, to about 0.5% in the south.
In most parts of the project, land leveling requirements would be relatively
low for the satisfactory establishment of most field crops and for rice.



-5-
Subsurface drainage would be required in certain areas of the project to
maintain an adequate depth to water table and a satisfactory salt balance.'
It is estimated that a system of tile drains would be required, initially
on about 11,000 ha.
Land Distribution and Tenure
3.07      A cadastral survey of all project lands was carried out to apply
the Land Reform Law. According to the survey, about 80% of the lands in the
project area are rented by farmers on a 30-year lease. The balance of the
area consists mostly of holdings retained by the landlords and a small number
of holdings which have been purchased by farmers under the provisions of the
Land Reform Law. Rental payments are currently Rls 1,200 (US$ 17.1) per ha
on irrigated land and markedly lower on dry-farmed lands. Although farmers
pay a fixed annual rent to the landlord, usually they have no claim to a
particular plot of land, All the lands of a village are normally farmed com-
munally, the tenants acting together in cooperation. The system is a carry-
over from pre land-reform days and has no legal basis.
3.08      The average area cultivated by a family on irrigated lands in the
DPIP is eight hectares, and about 20 ha on the dry farmed lands throughout
the balance of the project area. In areas outside the DPIP which are adja-
cent to the river, ancient irrigation canals are in use during the high stage
of the river and the water is divided between the landlord and tenants on the
basis of traditional crop-sharing arrangements. These canals, however, do
not provide a dependable source of irrigation water but serve mainly to sup-
plement rainfall.
Agricultural Production
3.09      Out of the total net irrigable area of 57,000 ha included in the
project, about 26,000 ha are presently cultivated during the winter season.
Summer cropping, which is restricted by water availability, is practiced on
only 10,000 ha, mostly in the DPIP where a somewhat more intensive pattern
of cultivation is practiced. Grains, primarily wheat and barley, are the
main winter crops, while rice, sesame and vegetables account for most of the
summer crop area. Crop yields are very low, largely due to inadequate mois-
ture throughout the year, insufficient use of fertilizers and outmoded methods
of production. Average yields on the DPIP, while still very low, are somewhat-
higher than those of the rest of the area, both because of the availability
of water and the agricultural services provided by KWPA. Except for some
parts of the DPIP area and on the large holdings of some landlords, where at
least part of the land cultivation activities are mechanized, most farm activ-
ities still depend on the use of draft animals with primitive tools.
3.10      The estimated numbers of sheep and cattle in the project area are
50,000 and 14,000, respectively. Standards of animal husbandry are low.
There are no organized meat or dairy markets and most of the livestock prod-
ucts are consumed locally.



-6_
3.11      Farming operations in the villages are usually carried out jointly
by groups of farmers, ranging from 5 to 15, who combine their holdings into
a single operating block. The group decides Jointly what crop to sow during
the coming season and allocates the work among the members. Cash outlays
for mechanized cultivation or the purchase of inputs are made by the group
as a whole, with each farmer assuming personal liability for a proportional
share of the total. At harvest time, farmers have the option of either re-
taining their share of the produce or selling it collectively. Supporting
agricultural services provided by KWPA are presently limited to the DPIP
area. These services include extension, credit, farm machinery, health,
sanitation and education. The Authority also operates a Field Trial Farm.
Transportation
3.12      The project area has good rail, road and air transportation con-
nections with the rest of the country. A mainline railroad and a national
highway connecting Khorramshahr and Abadan, the country's principal ports,
with Teheran, run through the project. These ports, located about 200 km
south of the project area, serve as outlets for most of Iran's agricultural
exports to the Persian Gulf area.
3.13      Except for some of the roads in the DPIP, there are no all-weather
roads in the project area to connect the villages with the main trunk roads.
Also, all the existing main roads run from north to south and there are no
roads crossing the project from east to west. This situation, which greatly
impedes traffic within the project area, results from the fact that the only
bridge across the Dez Rtiver, which bisects the project along its length, is
located at the northern end of the project area. In order to provide the
area with a better internal transportation system, the proposed project in-
cludes the construction of a new bridge across the Dez River in the middle
of the project. In addition, a main road would be constructed across the
width of the project to connect the towns of Shush and Shushtar (see Map).
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project proposed for Bank financing is Stage I in the progres-
sive development of the Dez Irrigation Project. It includes: -
(a) the construction of irrigation and drainage facilities on
about 37,000 ha;
(b) on-farm development on about 57,000 ha, including 20,000 ha
already under irrigation in the DPIP;
(c) construction of flood protection levees, roads and three
district operational centers;
(d) procurement of operation and maintenance equipment;
(e) a credit; program for the purchase of farm machinery;



-7-
(f) establishment of a training center and supporting agricultural
services; and
(g) investigations of future subsurface drainage requirements,
agricultural credit requirements and marketing arrangements.
A foreign consulting firm would supervise the construction of project works
and assist in undertaking the necessary investigations and the establishment
of supporting training, operational and agricultural services.
Proposed Works
4.02      Diversion Works.  The scheme for the delivery of water would in-
clude two low dams to be built on the Dez River at the locations shown on
the Map.  The re-regulating dam would create a reservoir to impound the
variable discharge from Pahlavi Dam and power station and release them as
required for the irrigation system. The diversion dam would consist of a
low concrete weir about 400 m in length, with intake structures for the east
and west main canals, located six km downstream of the re-regulating dam.
4.03      Canal System.  The water distribution system would serve about
57,000 ha of net irrigable area inside the project boundary, including
20,000 ha of irrigated land already established in the DPIP and served by
the east main canal. The new west main canal, to be constructed under the
project, would also deliver water to about 10,000 ha gross area in the KWPA
Sugar Cane Plantation at Haft Tapeh outside the project area. About 1,500
ha of the new land to be irrigated under the project lies on the east bank
above the DPIP. This area would be supplied by pumping, to a height of about
8 m (25 ft) from the pond above the diversion dam, into a new distribution
system to be constructed under the project. Three areas amounting in total
to 1,700 ha of high land on the west bank would be served by pumping from
the west main canal. Pumping elevations would vary between 7 m (22 ft) on
700 ha and 28 m (90 ft) on 1,000 ha.
4.04      The canal system has been designed for continuous delivery to meet
peak irrigation requirements. The slope of the land, particularly in the
northern part of the project, requires a high frequency of drop structures
on the canals, which results in a comparatively high cost per kilometer for
the distribution system. All main, branch and lateral canals irithin the
project would be concrete-lined.
4.05      Main Drainage.  A surface drainage system would be constructed,
incorporating the natural drainage channels in the area so far as possible,
and would include the improvement of about 50 km of such channels by enlarge-
ment. About 200 km of new run-off disposal channels would also be constructed
on the project.
4.o6      On-Farm Development.  Land leveling would be carried out and Water
distribution channels constructed down to field level in all irrigable land
which would be farmed by improved traditional methods in the area served by
the new irrigation system and in the DPIP. Construction standards would be



- 8 -
set for the land leveling which would entail the minimum amount of excavation
commensurate with a reasonable standard of water utilization and management
by the farmers. The net; irrigable area to be prepared in this manner under
the project would be up to 54,000 ha (see para 5.04). In about 11,000 ha of
of the project, the soil and groundwater conditions are such that it would
be necessary to install subsurface drainage on the farms from the start of
irrigated crop production. In these areas, tile field drains would be in-
stalled at intervals of about 100 m, and piped collector drains would dis-
charge into the deep, open drains forming part of the main drainage system
of the project. Exact subsurface drainage requirements would be determined
in a drainage investigation to be carried out under the project. MIPA has
agreed that a study, to be made by consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed by June 30, 1970. KWPA has
further agreed to construct a subsurface drainage system in accordance with
such recommendations as may be made as a result of the investigation.
4.07      Roads.  A road system would be constructed which would provide for
the movement of farm requisites and products. In addition to roads for
access between villages and farms, it is proposed to construct a main east-
west road between Shush and the existing roads in the DPIP, crossing the Dez
River at Hamid Abad. Two north-south major roads would also be provided in
the vicinity of the west main canal, linking with the national highway from
Ahwaz to Andimeshk.
4.o6      Other Project Facilities.  Three strategically-located district
service centers would be built within the project area. The facilities to
be provided at these centers would include agricultural seed and fertilizer
warehouses, equipment storage yards, workshops and field offices and housing
for project personnel.
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.09      Water Demand.  The total maximum monthly demand at the head of the
project would be about 170 m3/sec, including provision for all anticipated
water requirements in the project area and for downstream uses from the Dez
River. Further details of water demand, as well as supply and quality, are
presented in Annex 2.
4.10      Water Supply.  The water supply for the project would be derived
entirely from the Dez River, which is controlled by the Mohammad Reza Shah
Pahlavi Dam. It would be adequate to meet the project requirements.   In dry
years such as will occur with a frequency of 20 years in a century, the pres-
ent operating rules for the reservoir would limit discharges to about 190
m3/sec during four of the summer months.  This would not affect deliveries
to Stage I of the project, but it could give rise to shortages when Stage II
has been completed. Such shortages might require slight modifications to be
made in the summer cropping pattern at that time, but their frequency and
magnitude would be acceptable.
4.11      Water Quality.  The chemical quality of the Dez River water has
been sampled regularly since 1957 and has been found to be of medium salinity
hazard and low sodium hazard. The boron concentration is also below the



9-
detrimental content limit. The use of the Dez River water as an irrigation
supply would be satisfactory, although some leaching action would have to be
promoted in order to prevent salinization of the soil in the irrigated area.
Status of Engineering and Construction Schedule
4.12      A Feasibility Report for the whole of the Dez Irrigation Project
was produced in May, 1967, by the project consultants, Development and
Resources Corporation of New York. Following the Bank's suggestion for phas-
ing, the consultants also prepared a Supplementary Report for Stage I dated
September, 1968, relating to the project. The consultants are preparing
contract documents and drawings and have undertaken the responsibility for
the supervision of the construction contracts. Contracts for the construc-
tion of the canal distribution system would be awarded during 1969, while
those for on-farm development, project facilities and roads would be awarded
through 1971. All the project works are expected to be completed by 1974.
Details are presented in Annex 3.
4.13      In 196b, KWPA renewed the contract employing Development and
Resources Corporation as consultants for the project.   This project is the
consultants' first appointment for the combined design and supervision of
construction of river works and canals. Although the capability of the firm
in this type of work is not yet proven they have experienced personnel on
their staff and, subject to the application of the conditions set out in para
6.02, they would be capable of carrying out their role in the project satis-
factorily.
4.14      Two contracts which would not be considered for financing under
the proposed loan were awarded in 1967. The entire cost of these contracts
is presented in this report as local currency expenditure. The first con-
tract, GD-101, totalling about US$ 0.6 million for control gates, was awarded
to Krupp of Germany; the second contract, GD-102, totalling about US$ 6.9
million for the re-regulating dam, the diversion dam and for part of the west
main canal, was awarded to an Iranian-Italian joint venture known as SET-
Guffanti in the summer of 1967. The contractors were unable to carry out the
work according to schedule and, in August 1968, KWPA transferred the contract
at a revised price, under which the total cost of the work will now be about
US$ 10.3 million, to the SABIR Company, a firm owned wholly by the Ministry
of Water and Power. SABIR has contracted with Morrison-Knudsen International -
Company (of the USA) for the provision of technical assistance on the contract.
Failure to complete the work included in contract GD-102 would jeopardize the
commissioning of the whole project. KWPA and the Bank have agreed upon a
timetable for the completion of work in this contract in phase with the re-
mainder of the development and to standards satisfactory to the Bank. Failure
to execute the work in accordance with the timetable or to the required stan-
dards would be considered a reason for suspension of disbursements.
Cost Estimates
4.15      Cost estimates for the construction of the irrigation and drainage
works are based upon unit prices incurred during construction of the Mohammad
Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam, the DPIP, and the KWPA Sugar Cane Plantation at Haft



- 10 -
Tapeh. The unit prices were adjusted to reflect present-day cost index levels
and bid prices received recently under the first major civil works contract
let under the project. ALl quantity estimates include a 15% contingency fac-
tor. A further 5% contingency has been added for escalation of cost. On-farm
development cost estimates were based on actual costs incurred in performing
similar works on the Sugar Cane Plantation and on the DPIP. In the absence
of detailed quantity estimates for some of these works, particularly tile
drainage, a contingency of 20% was added to the cost estimates. All equip-
ment and machinery un:it costs are based upon current vendor quotations re-
ceived in Iran. Consultants' services costs are based on Development and
Resources Corporation's current contract. The cost estimates are reasonable.
The estimated expenditure required to implement the project, including inter-
est during construction on the loan, is US$ 74.3 million (Rials 5,628 million).
Details are given in Annex 4 and are summarized below:
Cost Estimates
Rials (millions)             US$ (millions)
Local   Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Irrigation and Drainage
Works 1/                  1,989.6    681.8  2,666.4     26.2     9.0    35.2
On-farm Development           772.6    325.7  1,098.3     10.2     4.3    14.5
Roads, Buildings and
Facilities                  340.9    143.9    484.8      4.5     1.9     6.4
Equipment for Operation
and Maintenance              -       136.3    136.3      -      1.8      1.8
Agricultural Credit for
Farm Machinery              128.8    189.4    318.2      1.7     2.5     4.2
Consultants' Services         128.8    386.3    515.1      1.7     5.1     6.8
Interest During Con-
struction 2                  -       409o.    409.0      -       5.4     5.4
TOTAL             3,355.7  2,272.4  5,628.1     44.3   30.0     74.3
1/   The entire cost of contracts GD-101 and GD-102 is included under local
currency (see para 4.14).
2/   Simple interest on the proposed Bank Loan at 6 1/2 percent.
Financing
4.16      The proposeo Bank Loan of US$ 30 million would be used to finance
the foreign exchange cost of civil works, imported equipment and farm machin-
ery, foreign consulting services and interest during construction on the loan.
There would be no retroactive financing of past expenditures under the Dank
loan. A list of operation and maintenance equipment to be imported under the
project, together with its cost, is presented in Annex 5. The total cost of
these items is US$ 1.8 million. Payments to contractors would be for irri-
gation and drainage works (US$ 9.0 million), on-farm development (US$ 4.3



- 11 -
million) and construction of roads, buildings and facilities (US$ 1.9 million).
In addition, the loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of farm machin-
ery, estimated at US$ 2.5 million, which would be purchased by farmers under
credit arrangements (see para 6.10), US$ 5.1 million of foreign consulting
services and US$ 5.4 million for interest during construction.
4.17      The proposed loan would be US$ 30 million (Rls 2,270 million) which
represents about 40% of the total capital cost required for the project. The
balance of the cost, totalling US$ 44.3 million equivalent (Rls 3,360 mil-
lion), would be met through Government budget allocation. The capital ex-
penditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed Bank loan, would
be approximately as follows:
Calendar Year       1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  Total
---------------US$ millions equivalent ---------
Government
Contribution      1.5    6.6  10.2   8.6   8.o   6.4   3.0    44.3
IBRD loan            -     4.6   6.2   5.4   5.2   5.3   3.3    30.0
TOTAL     1.5   11.2  16.4  14.0  13.2  11.7   6.3    74.3
Procurement
4.18      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the CIF cost of im-
ported operation and maintenance equipment and foreign exchange payments for
consulting services. Disbursement against all other project works and farm
machinery would be on a percentage basis representing the estimated foreign
exchange component.
4.19      Iran is developing her industrial capabilities rapidly and it is
expected that, with moderate protection, some local suppliers of equipment
and materials might compete successfully with foreign suppliers. It has
been agreed that equipment and materials for the project would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in which however Iranian
suppliers could participate with a preference allowance of 15%. The evalua-
tion of bids for such procurement would be made without taking into account
customs or other duties on imports. Civil works construction and installa-
tion contracts would be awarded under international competitive bidding in
which Iranian contractors could participate without preference. It has been
agreed that international competitive bidding would not be needed for the
procurement of some minor items'of operation and maintenance equipment, not
exceeding an aggregate value of US$ 100,000 equivalent, in relation to which
KWPA considers that such bidding would be costly and inefficient. Farm
machinery, for which there is a wide range of foreign representation in Iran,
would be procured by farmers directly from local suppliers. Care would be
-taken to ensure that reimbursement for the purchase of farm machinery would
be limited to that manufactured in member countries of the Bank and Swi'izerland.



- 12 -
Auditing of Accounts
4.20      KWPA maintains separate accounts for each of its main activities,
including the Dez Irrigation Project. Annual audits of KWPA are made by an
independent auditing firm, Coopers and Nabavi of Teheran, Iran. Assurances
have been obtained that KWPA would introduce a cost accounting system for the
project and retain auditors satisfactory to the Bank and would submit the
auditors' annual report to the Bank, together with certified copies of KWPA's
financial statements.
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Large-scale Mechanized Firming
5.01      The Government intends to encourage the early development of a
modern agriculture by leasing large tracts of land in the project area to
business enterprises to carry out large-scale mechanized farming. Individu-
als or companies, either Iranian or foreign, with a proven record in agri-
culture would be invited to submit proposals to KWPA for the cultivation of
land under leases of from 15 to 20 years. The Government has proposed that
rents would be set at a :Level sufficient to recover project investments on
the lands with interest. Representatives of several foreign companies have
visited the project area and some of them are reported to have shown interest
in taking up land. Assurances have been obtained during loan negotiations
that no agreement with an "agribusiness" enterprise would be made without
prior consultation with the Bank on its terms and conditions.
5.02      In order to ensure that the facilities to be provided under the
project would be utilized immediately and effectively, the Government has
agreed to limit any development by agribusiness initially to a maximum of
20,300 ha located in four areas of the project and to accept a time limit
for each area for the submission of proposals to the Bank. The time limits,
chosen in relation to the dates at which irrigation water would be made
available, would be set sufficiently in advance of the water delivery dates
to permit alternative arrangements to be made for agricultural development
by improved traditional farming, in the event that no proposals had been re-
viewed from agribusiness enterprises by the dates on which they would expire.
The areas in which agribusiness development would be considered, the water
delivery dates and the time limits for each area are as follows:
Water
Delivery    Dates for Submission
Agribusiness Areas                     Ha      Dates     of Proposals to Bank
1. DPIP (lands lying south of
the Field Trial Farm)         10,000                  November 1, 1960
2.  Pah-i-Pol                        2,400   June 1970      January 1, 1970
3.  Sharkheh                         4,200   Jan. 1971      April 1, 1970
4. Upper Karkheh                     3,700   Nov. 1971      February 1, 1971
Total     20,300



- 13 -
5.03      In the event of successful and rapid agribusiness development of
the 20,300 hectares, the Government would wish to introduce such develonment,
to the extent practicable, in other parts of the project area, under compen-
sation and lease arrangements mutually satisfactory to the agribusiness enter-
prise, the tenant farmer and the land owner. The Bank has agreed to review,
in the first half of 1970 or other mutually agreeable time, the progress
made in agribusiness development and the prospects for further development
of this kind, with the object of reaching agreement with the Government upon
its extension within the project area.
5.04      Agribusiness interests would carry out on-farm development and
drainage works with their own resources on land which they cultivated. Such
works would not be subject to international competitive bidding and there-
fore would not be eligible for financing under the loan. To the extent that
project lands were taken up by agribusiness enterorises, the project's re-
quirements for consultants' services and for agricultural credit for farm
machinery in relation to traditional farming would diminish, and the amounts
to be financed under the loan for these purposes would decrease accordingly.
In view of the present uncertainty as to the extent to which agribusiness
development will take place, if at all, it is not possible to foresee how
much the amount of the loan might be affected. If all of the 20,300 ha were
taken up by agribusiness interests the reduction in the size of the loan due
to the factors mentioned, and to lower interest during construction, might
be about US$ 3.5 million. In the absence of reliable estimates of the likely
extent of agribusiness development, the cost of the project has been esti-
mated on the basis of the whole area of the project being farmed by improved
traditional methods. After the expiry of the last time limits for the receipt
of agribusiness proposals in 1971 the situation would be reviewed and the
amount of any reduction in the estimated cost of the project resulting from
agribusiness development would be considered for possible cancellation from
the loan.
Improved Traditional Farming
5.05      The village would continue to be the main farming unit for improved
traditional farming, with farming operations being carried out on a group
basis as described in paragraph 3.11. On any lands outside the DPIP not cul-
tivated by agribusiness interests, a land re-distribution and consolidation
program would be carried out by KWPA during the construction period. Under
the program the dispersed farm holdings would be consolidated into individual
units varying between six and twelve hectares and averaging about ten bec-
tares per holding. Existing legislation provides KWPA with the necessary
legal powers to implement the program.
5.o6      The extent of land re-distribution involved is not yet clear and
would have to be worked out in detail during the construction period. KWPA
has undertaken to prepare the necessary details for a land re-distribution
and consolidation program on the 37,000 ha of land to be newly irrigated and
to implement the program during the construction period on the lands to be
farmed by improved traditional methods.



- 14 -
5.07      The formation of Agricultural Societies is one of the means by
which the Iranian Government is trying to accelerate the introduction of
modern agricultural techniques, as well as the consolidation of small farming
units. Lands to be incorporated into Agricultural Societies would be culti-
vated on a cooperative basis under joint management, to be provided in the
early years along with the necessary capital by the Government. Members of
the Societies would rteceive wages in accordance with their labor contributions.
Any remaining profits at the end of the year would be distributed among the
shareholders.
5.08      Four villages within the project area out of the total of 128 are
expected to be incorporated into Agricultural Societies on an experimental
basis. The cost of this experiment, tentatively estimated at US$ 1.0 mil-
lion, will be met from Government funds allocated for this program and it
has not been included in the project cost. Should the experience prove suc-
cessful, additional villages would be selected for incorporation in the
future.
Yields and Production
5.09      Although a rudimentary irrigation system has been in use in some
parts of the project area, the farmers, with the partial exception of those
in the DPIP, have no experience with sustained year-round irrigation or mod-
ern agricultural practices. The main emphasis under the project would, there-
fore, be on modernizing agricultural practices, increasing the cropped srea
and increasing yields with improved traditional crops. Major traditional
crops to be produced would be wheat, rice, barley and vegetables. New crops
to be introduced gradually include alfalfa, pasture, edible legumes, sugar
beets and fruits. In addition, a concentrated effort would be made to expand
and improve livestock and dairy production. The project area is well suited
for the crops chosen aLnd experiments on the DPIP Field Trial Farm with live-
stock production, new crops and improved varieties of the traditional crops
are promising.
5.10      Transformation of the present cropping pattern and production
levels into those projected in this report is expected to take place over a
15-year period. Given the emphasis on traditional crops, it would be pos-
sible to develop a higher level of production than is presently projected,
provided effective extension, marketing and agricultural equipment services
could be developed rapidly. Development would also be greatly accelerated
in the event of the successful introduction of large-scale mechanized farming.
The main changes in the existing cropping pattern under the project would be
an increase in the area of perennial crops from almost nil to 12,000 ha, an
increase in the summer-cropped area from about 10,000 to 22,000 ha, and an
expansion of winter crops from 26,000 ha to 34,000 ha. With an assured water
supply, the introduction of improved seed and a general up-grading of culti-
vation practices, substantial increases in yields are expected. Concurrently
with these improvements, there would also be an increase in production costs,
largely as a result of more intensive use of fertilizers, insecticides and
improved seed, as well as a shift from the use of draft animals to mechanized
cultivation. On the other hand, crop prices are not expected to undergo a
major change. Details of present and future crop areas, yields, production
costs and prices are presented in Annex 6.



- 15 -
5.11      Development of livestock would constitute an integral part of the
project. Efforts would be concentrated in the main on cattle and sheep, both
for meat and milk. The main aspects of the program would be the improvement
of breeds, better feeding practices, expansion of veterinary services and a
trial feed-lot operation. At full agricultural production, the total number
of sheep in the area is expected to increase from the present number of
50,000 to 135,000, while the projected increase in cattle would be from
14,000 to 38,000.
Marketing
5.12      More than half of the produce from the project would be absorbed
in Khuzestan, where demand is expanding rapidly. The balance would be shipped
to other parts of Iran, particularly to Teheran or, in the case of vegetables,
exported to the Persian Gulf areas. Although the distance from the project
to Teheran is about 520,km (330 mi), shipping costs are relatively low and
the project should be able to compete in the Teheran market with suppliers
from other parts of the country. Proximity to Iran's major ports would give
the project a distinct advantage over other producers in the country with re-
gard to exports to the Persian Gulf areas.
5.13      The most important crops to be produced by the project in value
terms are forage and feed grains for livestock production. The two principal
market crops are vegetables and food grains. Iran has not yet reached the
stage of self-sufficiency in the latter crops and must rely on imports to
supplement domestic production. However, these imports account for a rela-
tively small percentage of domestic consumption. On the other hand, consump-
tion projections based on population and per capita income growth indicate
a substantial increase in demand for these commodities. Thus, even if the
ambitious production targets set forth in the Five Year Plan (1968-1973) could
be attained, Iran would have only a moderate surplus in these commodities
which could be exported. Further details of domestic and export marketing
prospects for these crops are given in Annex 7.
5.14      Marketing services in the project area are presently provided
largely by the private sector and, to a limited extent in the case of food
grains, by farmers' cooperative societies. These services, however, are
inadequate even for the limited amount of produce which is currently being
marketed from the project area.  An urgent need exists for the expansion and
improvement of the marketing services to handle the expected increased pro-
duction from the project, and to provide outlets for higher value crops which
could be produced to advantage in the area in the future. Primary require-
ments include marketing research, regulatory services, marketing facilities
and marketing promotion. KWPA has agreed to carry out, with the assistance
of consultants to be employed under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, a marketing study to provide the framework under which the introduction
of necessary marketing services could be accelerated and coordinated. The
study would be done and presented to the Bank for review by 1970. KWPA has
also agreed to provide all the facilities and services which the study may
recommend.



- 16 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Khuzestan Water and Power Authority
6.01      The KhuzestEn Water and Power Authority (KWPA), a regional agency
of the Ministry of Water and Power, would be responsible for implementing
all project activities. The Authority, which was set up in 1960 as a con-
dition of the Bank's Loan 247-IRN, has overall responsibility for planning
and developing agricultural and power projects in Khuzestan Province. Its
activities are governed by a charter enacted in 1960 which provides the
Authority with the necessary legal powers to execute its functions in the
project area. Since its establishment KWPA has successfully completed the
construction of the Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam and hydroelectric plant,
the Sugar Cane Plantation at Haft Tapeh, and the DPIP. It is presently
operating these three projects with the assistance of consultants and has
several other projects under investigation. A functional organization chart
of KWPA is presented in Armex 8.
6.02      The Dez Irrigation Project division of KWPA, headed by a Project
Manager reporting to the Authority's Managing Director, would undertake the
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of the engineering
works and supporting agricultural services for the project. The DIP division
is divided into three departments: Engineering, Agricultural Services and
Administration, each headed by an Iranian deputy project manager. In order
to plan and coordinate the construction work and the agricultural development
of the project area, KWPA has agreed to establish a planning office in the
division. KWPA has also agreed that the division would be assisted by the
project consultants (I) & R) who, in addition to their responsibility for the
supervision of all construietion works, would assist in the establishment and
operation of all necessary supporting services, as well as the training of
key staff for the project. The Bank would be given an opportunity to com-
ment on the consultants' key personnel, including those to be appointed to
cover project management, agricultural services and engineering, including
operation and maintenance. An organization chart, staff requirements both
local and foreign, and operating cost estimates of the DIP are presented in
Annex 8. A brief description of the Engineering and Agricultural Services
departments is presented below.
6.03      Implementat.ion of the project, even with the substantial assistance
by consultants provided under the loan, would make heavy demands upon KWPA's
organization and managerial capacity. Further expansion of the project area
at this time would seriously over-extend the Authority's capacity. KWPA has
therefore agreed during loan negotiations not to embark upon the development
of Stage II of the project- until in the opinion of KWPA and the Bank such a
step is justified in the light of the progress made in carrying out the proj-
ect and of the technical and managerial circumstances prevailing at the time.



- 17 -
Engineering Department
6.o4      The project would be operated as a unit, with agricultural and
engineering requirements and services fully coordinated at all stages. How-
ever, certain field activities, particularly those of construction and oper-
ation of the irrigation system, would be the responsibility of the Engineering
Department.
6.05      Construction.  Practically all the project works would be construc-
ted by contract. The project consultants would be responsible for designs
and contract documents, and for supervising the prequalification and bidding
procedures, as well as for advising KWPA on the awarding of contracts. The
consultants would also be responsible for supervising all construction work,
certifying applications for payments, and executing or advising on contractual
matters as appropriate.
6.o6      Operation.  The basic design envisages 24-hour delivery of water
and continuous supplies to the headgates, without night storage, so that
irrigators would have to accept their share strictly at the allocated time.
Canal control staff would have to be continuously in attendance, since the
slope of the terrain gives rise to a relatively large number of control
structures which would require frequent adjustment, as would the unusually
numerous outlets from the main canals and branches. The high rate of canal
discharge called for in summer, together with the low operational wastage
assumed in the design, would have to be matched by correspondingly efficient
control. Also, local experience indicates that consistent over-irrigation
soon results in a rapid rise in the water table and leads to salinization
of the root zone in some of the dominant soils, so that close observation of
supplies and effective use of the controls and drains would be necessary to
prevent soil deterioration. In addition, the topsoil is fairly erodible,
and excessive run-off would be detrimental; this would also call for close
supervision and control. Finally, there are several pumping plants which
would require trained attendants. All these factors indicate that the accep-
table margins of operational efficiency would be minimal, and that closely
supervised operating procedures and diligent maintenance would be mandatory.
6.07      Maintenance.  The project would be divided into three zones, each
having an Operations Unit and a Maintenance Unit based at the zone center.
The staff of the Operations Unit would be responsible for water control and
distribution from the point of zone supply down to the headgate flumes. The
Maintenance Unit would be responsible for the upkeep of all project facili-
ties, including the distribution works, pumping stations, drains, levees,
operational roads, buildings and the facilities at each zone center. KWPA
has agreed to maintain also all lesser irrigation and drainage channels,
including distributaries and minor drains, but excluding farm channels, in
the interests of efficient use of water. The Authority would continue to
have this responsibility until such time as the farmers are physically and
financially capable of undertaking efficiently part of the maintenance of the
system themselves. A heavy mechanical equipment and pumping plant mainte-
nance unit would be based centrally. The consultants would be responsible
for the preparation of commissioning procedures and operating regulations for



- 18 -
the dams and canal control works, and of the maintenance instructions for all
the Authority's facilities and equipment in the project. They would also-
assist in the establishment and execution of training programs for all O&M
technical staff and equipment operators employed by the Authority on the
project. To this end, the consultants would provide the foreign specialist
staff to energize the O&M units and to establish the operation and maintenance
routines and training schemes.
Agricultural Services Department
b.0o      The existing agricultural staff of the DIP would be augmented and
organized into an Agricultural Service Department comprising six sections.
These sections would be research, extension and credit, which are already in
operation in the DPIP, and three new sections, farm management, training
and marketing, to be established under the project. The exact duties and
responsibilities of each section and the overall coordination of their activ-
ities are presently under review by KWPA and their consultants. The devel-
opment and operation of these services during the initial years of the proj-
ect would be assisted by the consultants. KWPA has agreed to prepare, with
the assistance of the consultants, a detailed plan of operation for the de-
partment and submit it to the Bank for comments by July, 1969. Although the
operational details of the Agricultural Service Department are still under
review, the work of each section would be roughly along the lines described
below.
6.09      Research activities on the project would be limited to applied
research to be conducted on the DIP Field Trial Farm. The main emphasis of
the research program in the early years would be on livestock, wheat and
rice. Results of the research activities would be transmitted to farmers by
the extension section, whose work would emphasize the introduction of im-
proved animal husbandry methods and crop varieties, better cultivation prac-
tices, quality control, harvesting, storage and marketing.
6.10      The only ag:ricultural credit institution active at present in the
project area is the DIP credit section. KWPA proposes to channel all agri-
cultural loans in the project area through this section until such time as
other credit institutions can provide the necessary credit. The DIP credit
section as presently organized would be incapable of expanding its activities
to meet all the farmers' needs. In order to assist in the formulation of a
credit program, KWPA has agreed to engage, as a sub-contractor to D & R, an
experienced consulting firm satisfactory to the Bank to investigate, under
terms of reference approved by the Bank, the credit organization, policy and
capital requirements. The consultants would also prepare specific proposals
for administering funds out of the Bank loan for the purchase of farm machin-
ery by farmers. Their report would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment within one year after the date of the loan agreement. Disbursements
of funds out of the loan for the purchase of farm machinery would be subject
to the introduction of credit arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. KWPA
has also undertaken to make adequate provision, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for the agricultural credit requirements of the
project.



- 19 -
6.il      The farm management section would place a farm manager in each
village who, in cooperation with the extension workers, would assist farmers
in the development of farm budgets, operation of farm equipment, applications
for agricultural credit, harvesting schedules and all other farm management
problems. Managers for the program would be trained by the training section,
which KWPA has agreed to establish to be responsible for all training require-
ments of personnel in the Agricultural Service Department. In addition, the
training section would set up a special program to train farmers, especially
in the operation of farm machinery. Successful trainees would be eligible
for loans for the purchase of machinery. The marketing section would be
responsible for promoting and assisting marketing services in the area on the
basis of the marketing study to be carried out by KWPA (see para 5.14).
VII. FINANCIAL RESULTS
Operation and Maintenance Costs
7.01      The annual cost of operation and maintenance of the irrigation
system has been estimated, from experience gained in the DPIP, to be US$ 15
per ha. Assuming that the new irrigation areas would start to come into
operation in 1970/71, the total annual costs are estimated to be as follows,
excluding any part of the cost of operating the Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi
Dam and Reservoir:
Calendar Year       1969   1970   1971   1972    1973   1974
TUs$ '000 equivalent)
Cost                300    380    500     660     820    860
Water Charges
7.02      Under the provisions of its operating charter, KWPA has adequate
authority to assess and collect water charges from farmers in the project
area. Water charges would consist of a uniform per-hectare charge and a
surcharge related to the increase in net agricultural returns resulting from
delivery of regulated irrigation water. The level of these charges would be
fixed with a view to recovering all operation and maintenance costs of the
irrigation system and as much of the capital invested in the project as would
be feasible without impairing the farmers' incentives. Rates would be re-
viewed at least once in every five years in relation to increasing production
and returns to farmers in the project area.
7.03      The annual base charge presently levied in the DPIP is Rls 750
(US$ 10) per ha. There has been no assessment of surcharges to date. Exist-
ing water charges fall short of the expected operation and maintenance costs
of the system and would have to be increased to at least Rls 1,100 (US$ 15)
per ha annually in order to cover such costs. KWPA has agreed to levy water
charges at a level sufficient to recover as much as practicable (without in-
pairing farmers' incentives) of the capital cost of the project in addition
to operation and maintenance costs.



- 20 -
Farmers' Income
7.04      Under exist:ing conditions in the project area, the weighted average
return to a farm famiLy from one hectare is about Rls 5,800 after allowing
for all production costs but before deduction of land rent payment and wages
for family labor. At full agricultural development the comparable return is
expectea to increase to Rls 26,000 per ha. This figure includes the equiva-
lent of Els 5,000 per ha for family wages which is treated as a production
cost for the purpose of economic analysis. The present weighted average size
of a holding unit in the project area is about 13 ha and the income of a
farming family is about Rls 75,500 (US$ 1,000). Following the introduction
of irrigation the average size of a holding in the area would be 10 ha.
Assuming water charges of Rls 11,000 per holding, returns to a farming family
at full development would be about Rls 250,000 (US$ 3,300). The income of a
farm family would thus be about three times higher than the pre-project in-
come. Such an increase, should enable farmers to contribute toward repayment
of other project costs, while still providing them with adequate incentive
to participate in the project.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      Major benefits to be derived from the project would be increased
production and the introduction of modern irrigated agriculture in an area
which is presently cu:Ltivated by outmoded methods, largely under dry-farming
conditions. The project would also enable !ran to improve its balance of
payments position by about US$ 9.5 million annually through import substitu-
tion. In addition, the project would make further use of the Mohammad Reza
Shah Pahlavi Dam, used hitherto mostly for power generation and flood control.
8.02      For the purpose of computing production costs, as well as benefits,
no distinction was made between the various types of holdings on the project
and all costs were based on a ten-hectare farm unit. Most farm activities
were assumed to be mechanized and all labor requirements were treated as a
production cost. benefits were computed on the basis of farm-gate prices,
which, in effect, under-estimate the real return to the economy, since they
overlook the excessive profits accruing to middlemen by virtue of their
power vis-a-vis the farmers. In computing project benefits, account was also
taken of increased production on some 13,000 ha of presently dry-farmed lands
outside the project boundary which would receive a regulated water supply
tnrough the project irrigation system, but where no further development ac-
tivities are contemplated at present.
8.03      At full agricultural development of all project lands, the annual
gross value of production at farm-gate prices is estimated to increase from
the present level of Rlls 327 million (US$ 4.4 million), to Rls 1,400 million
(US$ 16.7 million). jAfter making allowance for increases in production costs,
annual costs of operation and maintenance of the system and supporting agri-
cultural services, as well as increased income from the sale of livestock,
the annual incremental net value of production to the economy at full develop-
ment would be about Rls 850 million (US$ 11.3 million). When discounting



- 21 -
these benefits over the 50-year life of the project, the internal rate of
return to the economy would be about 12%. In this computation, all past ex-
penditures in the DPIP were treated as sunk costs, and the increase in agri-
cultural benefits from the pre-DPIP period to the present time were similarly
disregarded. Alternatively, when past investments in the DPIP along with
incremental benefits to date and the pro-rated cost of the Mohammad Reza Shah
Pahlavi Dam allocated to irrigation are taken into account, the internal rate
of return approaches 10%. For further details see Annex 9.
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      The project would be Stage I in the progressive development of the
Dez Irrigation Project. It would provide a dependable water supply and ade-
quate drainage to serve about 57,000 ha. The introduction of irrigation and
supporting agricultural services would enable farmers to expand agricultural
and livestock production in the project area, as well as adopting modern
production techniques.
9.02      The cost per hectare of the irrigation and drainage system and on-
farm development works would be about US$ 1,200. Investments in the irriga-
tion and drainage system would amount to about US$ 950 per ha while on-farm
development works would total about US$ 250 per ha. These cdsts are in the
middle of the range for this type of project. The project is technically
sound and economically advantageous to Iran and is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$ 30 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of six
years.
9.03      The following conditions have been agreed upon during negotiations
and have been included in the loan documents:
(a) KWPA would complete a study of sub-surface drainage require-
ments in the project area by June 30, 1970. The study would
be done by the consultants under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank. KWPA would then construct a sub-surface
drainage system in accordance with such recommendations as
may be made as a result of the study;
(b) failure to execute the work included in Contract GD-102 in
accordance with a timetable to be agreed upon with the Bank
or to standards satisfactory to the Bank, would be considered
a basis for suspension of disbursements;
(c) KWPA would introduce a cost accounting system for the project,
would retain auditors satisfactory to the Bank and would sub-
mit the auditors' annual report to the Bank, together with
certified copies of KWPA's financial statements;
(d) KWPA would not conclude any agreement with an agribusiness
enterprise for the cultivation of land in the project area
without prior consultation with the Bank;



- 22 -
(e)  KWPA would limit any land cultivation by agribusiness enter-
prises initially to a maximum of 20,300 ha located in four
areas of the project and would apply a time limit for each
area for the submission of proposals to the Bank;
(f)  KWPA would prepare the necessary details for a land redistri-
bution and consolidation program on the 37,000 ha of land to
be newly irrigated and would implement the program during
the construction program on the lands to be farmed by improved
traditional methods;
(g) KWPA, with the assistance of consultants acceptable to the
Bank, would prepare a marketing study under terms of reference
approved by the Bank, which would provide the framework under
which the introduction of the necessary marketing services
could be accelerated and coordinated; that the study would be
presented to the Bank for review by 1970; and that KWPA would
implement its recommendations by providing the necessary
facilities and services;
(h) KWPA would establish a planning office in its DIP division to
plan and coordinate the construction work and the agricultural
development of the project area;
(i) the project consultants would be responsible for the super-
vision of all construction works and would assist in the
establishment and operation of necessary supporting services,
as well as the training of personnel; and that the Bank would
be given an opportunity to comment on the appointment of the
consultants' key personnel;
(J)  KWPA would not embark upon the development of Stage II of the
project until the Authority and the Bank agree that such a
step is justified in light of the progress made and the cir-
cumstances prevailing at the time;
(k) in addition to its maintenance work on other project facili-
ties and installations, KWPA would also maintain, until such
time as the farmers would be capable of undertaking the work
efficiently themselves, all the lesser irrigation and drainage
channels, including distributaries and minor drains;
(1) KWPA would prepare, with the assistance of consultants, a
detailed plan of operation for the project's Agricultural
Service Department and submit it to the Bank for comments by
July 1969;
(m)  KWPA would employ, as a sub-contractor to the project consul-
tants, an experienced consulting firm satisfactory to the
Bank to study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, the credit organization, policy and capital requirements;
that the consultants would also prepare specific proposals for



- 23 -
the administration of the funds made available in the Bank
loan for the purchase of farm machinery by farmers; that a
report would be submitted to the Bank within one year of the
date of the loan agreement; and that disbursement of funds
out of the loan for the purchase of the farm machinery would
be subject to the introduction of credit arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank;
(n) KWPA would make adequate provision for the agricultural credit
requirements of the project;
(o) KWPA has agreed to levy water charges at a level, which it
would determine from time to time by means of periodic reviews,
sufficient to recover as much as practicable of the capital
cost of the project in addition to operation and maintenance
costs; and
(p) KWPA would establish a training center to train project per-
sonnel and farmers.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
I R A N
DEZ IRPIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
The Dez Pilot Irrigation Project
1.        During appraisal of the Dez Multipurpose Project (Loan 247-IRN)
in 1958, it was concluded that a large investment in developing the entire
area for irrigation could not be justified until experience on a smaller
scale had demonstrated that organizational, administrative and technical
problems could be solved and that crop yields and benefits thought to be
attainable under favorable conditions could, in fact, be achieved. To
gain the necessary experience, a preliminary scheme, the Dez Pilot Irri-
gation Project (DPIP), consisting of some 20,000 hectares of net irrigable
land, was started in 1963.
2.        Development of the DPIP included:
A. Works, Facilities and Equipment
i)    A temporary diversion intake on the left bank of
the Dez River below the towxn of Dezful, and a
temporary intake canal about nine kilometers long.
ii)   About ho km of main canals and 100 km of lateral
canals.
iii)  Other public facilities, works, buildings and
equipment required for the establishment and
operation of the scheme and furnishing the
services and assistance as referred to in (B)
below.
B. Services and Assistance
i)    Assistance in land leveling and construction
of distributary canals, ditches and drains.
ii)   A field trial farm and research center.
iii)  A training center.
iv)   An agricultural extension service.
v)    Education, health and sanitation services.
vi)   A credit service.






ANIZ1 1
Page  2
vii.) A mechanization demonstration and repair
se'rvice.
viii) A marketing assistance service.
3.        Civil works on the project were designed by Nederlandsche Heide-
maatschappij and constructed by local contractors under the supervision of
Development and Resources Corporation (D & R), the consultants to KIPA. D & R
alsc ass:;Lted KWPA in the operation of various technical services.  Invest-
ments through 1967 on the proJect were as follows:1/
A. Public Works                   Expenditures through 1967
(US$ million equivalent)
Roads                                  1.3
Canals                                 8.0
Drainage                               0.5
Land leveling                          0.2
Crop damage                            0.1
Facilities                             0.1
Design and
engineering                           3.0
Subtotal A                          13.2
B. Operation and Maintenance
Housing and offices                    0.5
Irrigation structures                  0.3
Roads                                  0.3
Water distribution                     0.5
Subtotal B                           1.6
C.  Operation of Various Services            8.o
D.  Indirect Costs                           )4. 5
GRAN>D TOTAL                                27.3
Total for Economic Analysis
Purposes (subtotals A + B)         US.$ 1h.8 million equivalent
The original amount assigned for development of the DPIP under Loan 247-IRIM
was US;, 3.6 million. Due to over-run in costs of other parts of the mnulti-
purpose project, this amount was subsequently reduced to US$ 700,000 and used
to finance the procurement of agriculturaleluipment, payments to contractors
on civil works and foreign consulting services.
/   Starting in 1967, the accounts for the DPIP were combined with those
of the DIP.  Total costs represent actual expenditures through 1966
and an allocated percentage of expenditures in 1967.






A.MNEX 1
Page 3
8.        TJWith the exception of land leveling and subsurface drainage, con-
struction of all civil wrork!s on the DPIP has been ccmpleted.  Remaining
expenditures for leveling and drainage, estimated at about US$ 2 million,
would be included in the present project. The technical services are also
in operation, although the mechanization, demonstra.tion and repair service
is in effect an agricultural machinery custom operation provided to farmers
by KIUR.






ANWEX 2
Page 1
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Water Demand
1.        Farm requirements.  The project irrigation requirements were based
on crop consumptive use computations, by means of the Blaney-Criddle method,
using data obtained at the DPIP Field Trial Farm. Data were also used from
recent studies made in the desert areas of the southwestern United States.
The consumptive use figures arrived at are exceptionally high, exceeding 300 mm
in each of the months of June, July and August and reflect the severity of
the summer climate. Deductions for the effective rainfall were based on a
year of moderate drought, and total 90 mm in the winter months.   Allowances
have been made for pre-irrigation applications.
2.        Infiltration rates of 2.5 mm/hr to 4 mmx/hr have been measured on the
project, and these low rates wqill give rise to excessive run-off, waste and
low irrigation efficiencies in the early stages of the scheme. Irrigation
efficiencies have been measured and were assumed to be as follows:
Average field efficiency:
for rice        - 33% through 1973, rising to
h5% by 1988
for other crops - 40% through 1973
50% by 1978
60% by 1988
Assumed losses in on-farm ditches:   10%
These assumptions are realistic, provided that the water management training
to be given to the farmers is put into effect.
3.        The monthly maxim=m crop requirement at the farm headgates was cal-
culated to be about 2.0 liters per second per ha for all crops except rice
and sugarcane. The latter crops, where adopted, watld require 2.7 and 2.6
liters per second per ha, and minor canal structures would be sized accord-
ingly.  However, all headgate flumes would be capable of delivering 4 liters
per second per ha to meet pre-irrigation requirements.
li.       The net irrigable areas which would receive irrigation supplies in
the project, totalling 57,055 ha, are shown on page 5 of this Anne-    The ir-
aigation requirements and farm delivery requirements wihich would arise from
the cropping pattern adopted for the project - and which are described in
Annex 6 - are shown on page 6. The total deliveries to project farms *;rould
amount to about 1.8 billion m3 (1.5 million acre-feet) annually. The larger
deliveries would be for the alfalfa, wheat, rice and vegetable crops.






ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The composition of the cropping pattern is subject to considerable
variation, especially in view of the local tradition of rice cultivation, and
K`WPA's expressed intention to encourage further sugarcane production which if
adopted, would tend to increase the maximum canal discharges. The canal sys-
tem has been designed to accommodate these demands, and the capacities wshich
would be provided are shown on page 7 of this Annex. The west main canal ap-
pears to have about 15% of spare capacity for 1974 requirements, after taking
into account the proposed deliveries through the canal to the Karkheh River,
the Karkheh Flood Plain, and the KWPA Sugarcane Plantation.
6.        Leaching requirements.  The maintenance leaching requirement has been
estimated to be between 5$ and 7% of the annual irrigation application. This
has been allowed for in adopting the average project field irrigation effi-
ciency of 40%, implying field losses of 60%, of which 10% to 15% has been al-
lowed for deep percolation and continuous maintenance leaching. Wdhere water
is required for reclamation of soils, it has been assumed that this operation
would take place during the winter cropping season when there is a surplus
of water in the river.
7.        River diversion requirements for the project.   Cana1 losses have
been assumed to be minimal, taking into account the widespread use of concrete
lining and a necessarily well-trained, efficient operational staff. The losses
assumed are as follotqs:
Canal seepage losses                        5%
Operational wastage                         5%
Total losses                      10%
When these losses are applied to the farm delivery requirements, the annual
diversion requirement from the river to the area to be irrigated within the
project would be about two billion m-, as shown on page 6.
8.        Extra-project diversions.  Provision may have to be made for irri-
gation water required for the Zavieh Island area and the flood plain in the
Dez River, and also for the pump schemes and other diversions, some of which
have water rights in the reach of the river lying downstream of the project.
In addition, allowances would have to be taken into account for the diversions
for the KWPA Sugarcane Plantation at Haft Tapeh, the Karkheh Flood Plain,
and to the Karkheh River itself, all of which would be supplied through the
west main canal, as shown in the tables on pages 7 and 8 of this Annex.
9.        Total diversions.  The total estimated irrigation water demands at
the head of the project for the critical months in the irrigation season are
shown in the table on page 8. The maximum monthly diversion requirement for
Stage I use would be about 96 m3/sec in July, and in that month an additional
flow of 57.5 m3/sec would also be passed through the west main canal to areas
outside the project. The maximum total diversion requirements from the Dez
River during Stage I of the DIP would be about 170 m-/sec.






ANNEX 2
The Water Srpp.y
10.       The project would derive its water supply entirely from the Dez
River which is controlled by the MohamLmad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam, sited 25 kma
upstream from Dezful. The Dez is a major tributary of the Karun River, which
it joins near Ahwaz, about 100 km downstream of the project. Records of fair
reliability are available for the Dez River discharge since 1954. Observa-
tions of the river levels on the Karun River have been made at Ahwaz since
1893 and river discharges were first measured at Ahwaz in 1905. There are,
therefore, about 14 years of record available for the Dez River and about
60 years of record a.vailable for the Karun River. The regime of the Dez
River is characterized by high monthly discharges in the rainfall and snow-
melt season of the years, with maximum flows usualJ.y occurring in April,
and gradually reducing to a seasonal low-flow period in October.
11.       The long-term mean discharge of the Dez River is estimated to be
280 cubic meters per second of 8r8 billion m3 (7.1 million acre-feet) a year.
Thie discharge has been estimated by correlation with the long-term discharge
records of the Karun River.  The mean seasonal low flo-s which are likely to
occur at 20-year intervals are estimated to be as follows:
Summer crop season - June to October - 87 m3/sec
Rainy season - November to March - 104 m3/sec
Filling period of the dam reservoir
- February to May - 260 m3/sec
12.       The Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam project, which was completed
early in 1963 at a cost of US$ 33 million, consists of a double-arch dam
203 ma in height, a. hydroelectric power station which will have a final instal'l.ed
capa.city of 520 NlAj, an. an imnounding reservoir with a total initial capa-
city of 3.35 billion m   (2.7 million acre-feet).  At the maximum allowable
water surface elevation of 350 m above sea level, the live storage capacity
is 2.4 billion m3 (1.9 million acre-feet).  At the minimum draw-down level
at whiich the hydroelectric sets are capable of operating at their rated ca-
pacity of 65 MW (305 m above sea level), the live storage capacity is 2.0
billion m3 (1.6 million acre-feet). In view of the average annual inflow
of 8.8 billion m3, there would therefore be an ample total supply of water
available for the irrigation project, which would require two billion m3 per
yea.r.
13.       An opera.ting guide rule has been adopted for the reservoir which
requires that the water level should be drawn down from maximum elevation on
July 1 to elevation 315 m on February 1 for flood control purposes, and thence
raised to elevation 335 m on April 1.  The subsequent releases are then made
largely to mneet power requirements. This method of operation results in the
discharge through the dam and power plant being limited to between
185 and 195 m3/sec from May to August in years of water shortage. Under the
power-oriented operational rules adopted for the purposes of the Dez Multi-
purpose Project, the irrigation requirements during Stage I (see page 8 of
this Anniex) would therefore be adequately provided for by reservoir releases
in the summer months in all years.  After Stage II has been completed, in 20/to
of the years there would be some restriction on diversions unless the opera-
tional rules for the reservoir were to be modified to perminiY hi9'l r '.u2inez
releases for irrigation.






ANNEX 2
Page T
14.       The hourly variations in discharge from the power plant would be
absorbed by the re-regulating reservoir to be constructed in the project, with
a capacity of 11 million m3. Discharges from the re-regulating dam would be
modified to meet tle project irrigation requirements whenever possible.
15.       A report prepared in 1958 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
and their consultants, SOGREAH, indicated that the long-term mean annual
sediment discharge into the Mohamrnad Reza Shah Pahlavi Reservoir could be
expected to be 16.5 million tons per yea.r.  This would result in a reduction
in live-storage capacity of about 20 million m3 per year, and although this
estimate is under review and may have to be increased, it presages a total
reservoir life of between 100 and 150 years and would not affect the project.
A program to reduce catchment erosion is to be prepared by KWPA and their
consultants.
WIater Quality
16.       The chemical quality of the Dez River water has been sampled regu-
larly since 1957, and the quality has become more uniform since the dam and
reservoir came into operation early in 1963. The mean annual conductivity
of the water is classified as C-2, or of medium salinity hazard, having a
mean Electrical Conductivity of 510 micromhos per centimeter.   With regard
to sodium content, the Sodium Adsorption Ratio ranges from 0.7 to 1.5, and
the water is classified as S-1, or of low sodium hazard. The boron con-
centration is below the detrimental content limit. The use of the Dez River
water as an irrigation supply would be satisfactory although some leaching
action would have to be promoted in order to prevent salinization of the
soil in the irrigated area. A 10% allowance for leaching has been included
in the irrigation requirements.






ANNEX 2
DEZ LRIAT TON PROJECT
STAGE I
Irrigation Areas
Block                                          Net Irrigable Area.
(hectares)
East of Dez River
Dez Pilot Irrigation Project                      20,000
Ghomnaysh
(area presently served by ghanats)               1,,454     21,45L
West of Dez River
Dez WTest                                          2,727
Andimeshk Bench                                      702
Sharkheh                                         4L,202
Pah-i-Pol                                          2,385
Upper Karkheh                                      3,739
Karkheh Ridge                                      4,453
Upper Shush                                        4,925
Lower Shush                                       6,070
Upper Hermushi                                     3,555
Lower Hermushi (excluding Sugar
Plantation extension)              2,843      35,601
Project Stage I Total                                           57,055






ANNEX2'
Page 6
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Annual Irrigation and Diversion Requirements
Net Con-    Net Irri-   Farm
sumptive    gation      Delivery   Diversg,on
Crop         LArea    Use/Crop    Reqt.       Reqt.1/    Reqt.2
Perennial Crops
Alfalfa           8,ooo     2.10        168
Pasture           2,000    2.10         42
Grapes, fruit     2,000    1.10          22
etc.
Subtotal       12,000
Winter Crops
Wheat            15,000     0.42         63
Barley            3,000    0.4h          13
Sugarbeet         !,OOO    0.75          30
Berseem           3,000    0.38          11
Oilseeds          3,000    0.L5          13
Vegetables        3,000    0.70          21
Others            3,000    0.50          15
Subtotal       3b,000
Suwmer Cr.ops
Cotton           4h,OOO    1.20         48
Milo and corn     4,000    0.75          30
Oilseeds          3,000    0.65          20
Vegetables        3,000    1.20          36
Others            2,000    0.80         16
747         1,530
Rice              6,000    1.00         60            200
Subtotal       22,000                             1,730      1,930
Area cropped
annually         68,000
Assamptions in this project:
1/ Farm delivery requirement   Net irrigation requirement
Field irrigation efficiency x farm ditch efficienc-:
Net irrigation requirement for rice
0.33 x 0.90
= Net irrigation requirement for other crops
0.40 x 0.90
2.f Diversion requirement     = Farm delivery requirement
Canal conveyance efficiency
= Farm de1 .vcnrv rcuirzcnienl






ANNEX 2
Page 7
DEZ IRRIGATIONL POJECT
STAGE I
Canal Capacities
Canal                       Block Commanded                 Capacity, m3/sec
West Main
Dez Wlest                        5.4
AndLmeshk Bench                 1.4
Sharkheh                        9.9
Pah-i-Pol                       5.0
Upper Karkheh                    8.6
Karkheh Ridge                   10.1
Upper Shush                    lO.4
Lower Shush                    12.6
Upper Hermushi                   7.8
Lacer Hermushi                  5.7        76.9
Extra-project areas:
Karkheh Flood Plain             12.4
KWJPA Sugarcane
Plantation, Haft Tapeh         30.0
Karkheh River Diversion         15.0        57.4
134~.3
East Main
DPIP (West Canal)               13.1
DPIP (East Canal)              31.4         44.5
Siah Mansoor
Ghomaysh                         3.8         3.8
b2..6






ANNEX 2
Page 
DEZ IRRIGAT TON PROJECT
STAGE I
Diversion Reauirements
Mean Discharges, m3/sec
June    July    August    September
For Project
DPIP                              33       34       31         24
Ghomaysh, East Bank                3        3        3          2
West Bank                         58       59       54         42
94       96       88         68
Through lWlest Main Canal
To KUPA Sugar Plantation          30       30       30         30
To Karkheh Flood Plain            12.5     12.5     12.5       10
To Karkheh River                 -15                15         15
151.5    153.5    145.5      123
To Downstream Interests
Zavieh Island                      3.5               4.5        4.5
Dez Flood Plain                    3.5      3.5      L          2.5
Dez Downstream Pumps               7.5      9       13         10
Total Dez Diversion Requirements   166      170      167        140






ANNEX 3
PAGE I
IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CONTRACT     DESCRIPTION                                            YEARS
NUMBER       OF WORKS                 1967     1968    1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974
GD 101 - Control gates
for dams and
main canals
(1st part)
GD 102 - Re-regulating
and diversion
dams, and 1st
part of West
Main Canal
GD 103 - Major roads,
bridges and
flood pro-
tection
GD 104 - West Main Canal (2nd
part), canal distri-
bution system (lst
part), pumping stations,
1st part of minor
roads and drains
GD 105 - Pumps, motors
and controls
GD 106 - Control gates
for canal dis-                                        A-
tribution
system (lst
part)
GD 107 - Canal distri-
bution system                                               I     ._.
(2nd part)
GD 109 - Control gates
for canal dis-
tribution sys-
tem (2nd part)
GD 110 - Remainder of                                                                        _  _r
roads and main                                                  |___I
drainage system
Buildings and                                            ZONES I AND lII             ZONE I
facilities                                                                     .
Land leveling,                             BY FORCE ACCOUNT
development and
subsurface
drainage
Equipment
procurement                            _   _   _    _    _   _    _    _   _    __         _   _
IBRD - 3992






ANNEX 3
PAGE 2
IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
PHASING OF IRRIGATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
(NET IRRIGATED HECTARES - THOUSANDS)
60                  I
6;                    //~~~~~~~~~~
30             //~~~~~~~~~
50
40/
30                       d
I0
1969     1970    1971     1972     1973    1974
(R) BRD-3993






ANTTEX 4
I R A N
DEZ TRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Cost Estimates
Local         Foreign
Currency 1/   Exchange    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
I. Irrigation and Drainage Works
Contract GD-101 (gates)                        .6             _         .6
Contract GD-102 (dams and part main canal)  10.3              -       103
Canals and pumping facilities                 7.8            6.3      14.1
Flood protection and drainage                 2.1            1.2       3.3
Contingencies_/                         3.0             1.5       .5
Right of Way acquisition                       .3             -         .3
Engineering and Administration                2.1             _        2.1
Sub-total                              26.2             9.0      35.2
II.On-Farm Development
Land leveling and derelopment                 5.5            2.9       8.4
Subsurface drainage                          1.2              .7       1.9
Drainage investigations                        .4             -         .4
Contingencies 20%                       1.4              .7       2.1
Crop compensation                              .8             -         .8
Engineering and Administration                 .9             -         *9
Sub-total                              10.2             4.3      14.5
Rl.Roads, Buildings and Facilities
Roads and bridges                            2.2             1.2       3.4
Buildings and facilities                     1.2              .4       1.6
Contingencies 20%                        .7              .3       1.0
Engineering and Administration                 .4             -         .4
Sub-total                               4.5             1.9       6.4
IV. Equipment for Operation and Maintenance       -             1.8       1.8
V.  Agricultural Credit for Farm Machinery       1.7            2.5       4.2
VI. Consultants' Services                        1.7            5.1       6.8
VII.Interest During Construction @ 6 percent    -              5.4       5.4
TOTAL                                  44.3            30.0      74.3
1/ The foreign exchange components of Contracts GD-101 and GD-102, which
would not be financed by the Bank loan, are included under local currency*
2/ Contingencies nil on Contract GD-101, 10% under local currency on
Contract GD-102, 20% on all other works,






ANNEX 4
PAGE 2
IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
(MILLIONS OF U.S. DOLLAR EQUIVALENTS)
80            1          1          1
70
60
50
40
ACCUMULATED EXPENDITURE
(INCLUDING INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION)
30
20  X                 / r ~~~~~LOCAL CURRENCY 
20
FOREIGN EXCHANGE (LOAN)
10                                                           77
I0
1968       1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974
(2R)IBRD- 3994






ANNEX 5
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Operation and Maintenance Equipment List
Estimated
Item                    Quantity     Unit Price     Total Cost
Graders                             4          28,800        115,200
Truck-mounted Boom
Ditch Excavators                  7          40,000        280,000
Tractors (160 HP)                   4          32,000        128,000
Front End Loaders                   4          28,800        115,200
Low-Loader (self-propelled)         1          Lo,ooo         0o,000
Low-Loaders (trailer)               4           6,000         24,000
Fuel and Service Trucks             3          20,000         60,000
Winch Trucks                        2          32,000         64,000
Scra.per                            1          ho,000         4o,000
HD Boom Truck                       1          48,ooo         48,000
Field Mechanical Trucks             3          20,000         60,000
Transit Mixer                       1          24,000         22,000
Concrete Mixers                     h           h,800         19,200
Compressors                         3           4,800         14,h00
Welding Machines                    3           4,800         14,400
Water Pumps                         a           3,200         12,800
Two-way Car Radios                 16           1,000         16,000
Truck Cranes, 20-ton                2          38,400         76,800
Mechanical Equipment Trucks         3           6,ooo         18,000
Excavators (dragline)               4          75,000        300,000
Farm Tractors (80 HP)               6          12,000         72,000
Miscellaneous and
Contingencies                 Iump Sum         -           258,000
TOTAL                                                  US$ 1,800,000






ADNNEX 6
Page 1
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION- PROJECT
STAGE I
Estimated Present Cropping Pattern
57,COO Net Irripable Hectares
Net
Gross               iNet       Returns
Value     Pro-      Value      frcm
of Pro-   duction   of Pro-    Project
Area   Yield   Price    duction   Costs     duction   Area
(ha) (Tons/ha)(Rls/Kg) (Rls/ha) (Rls/ha)    (11ls/ha) (millions
of Rials)
WiHr.cer drops
Grains             24,000   1.1    6.5       7,150    3,150       4,000     96.0
Others             2,000     _      _       10,000    5,000      5,000      10.0
Sub-total      26,000                                                  1C6.0
Summer Crops
Rice               5,000    1.5    7.0      10,500    5,500      5,000      25.0
Se.same            2,000    0.4   16.0       69L400   3,000      3,400      6.8
Vegetables         2,000     -      -       30,000   15,000     15,000      30.0
Others             1-                       10,000    5,000      5,000       5.0
Sub-total      10,000                                                   66.8
Total Agricultural
Production        36o000                                                   172.8
Income from Livestock                                                        6000
C&ANUD TOTAL                                                                 332.8






A.x;IL:~. O
Page 2
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGAT ION PROJE1CT
STAGE I
Projected Cropping Pattern At Full Agricultural Development
57,000 Net Irrigable Hectares
Net
Gross               Net       Returns
Value     Pro-      Value     from
of Pro-   duction   of Pro-   Project
Areal/  Yield  Price  duction    Costs     duction   Area
TFMT  (Tons/ha)(TRhs7g)(Rls/ha) (RlsAha)    (Rls/ha) (millions of
Rial s)
Perennial Crops
Alfalfa           8,000   15.0      2.0    30,000    18,000    12,000     96.0
Pasture           2,000      -       -     15,000     9,000     6,000     12.0
Fruits            2,000             _ -   110,000    80,000    30,000     60.0
Sub-total     12,000                                                  168.0
Wi.rter Crops
Grains           189000    3.5      6.o    21,000    10,000    11,000    198.0
Sugar beets       4,000   50.0    09      45;000    32,000    13,000     52.0
Berseem           3,000    9.0     1.5    13,500      7,000     6,500     19.5
Oilseeds          3,000     -        -     18,000     9,000     9,000     27.0
Vegetables        3,000     -        -     70,000    32,000    38,000    1124.o
Others            3,000     -       -     20,000      10,00    10,000     30.0
Sub-total     34,000                                                  440.5
Su.nmrer Crops
Rice              6,000     4.0    7,0     28,000    14,000    14,000     84.0
Cotton            4,000    2.8    12.0     33,600    20,600    13,000     52.0
Milo and Corn      4,000    4.0    5.0     20,000    llX000     9XOOO     36.0
Oilseeds          3,000     -        -     18,000     9,000     9,000     27.0
'Vegetables       3,000     -        -     65,000    32,000    33,000     99.0
Others            2e000     -        -     20,000    10,000    10,000     20.0
Sub-total     22,000                                                  318.0
Total Agricultural
7.rc;uction      68,000                                                  926.5
Inc cme from
Livestock                                                                280.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                              1,206.5
1/ Area attained for each crop by the 15th year of the project.
2/ Projected yields attained five years after the introduction of -r-gulated
water supply.






ANNEX 6
Page 3
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Production Costs of Selected Crops
in Fifth Year After Introduction of Irrigation
(Rials/ha)
Land
Prepa-                                             Hired             Contin-
ration   Seed   Fertilizer  Insecticide  Harvest   Labor  Interest   gency     Total
Alfalfa V           2,500      -        2,700        500      9,300      -      1,000      1,400    18,000
Grains              1,600   1400       2,700         -       2,500     600       300        900    10,000
Sugar beets         2,500    2,000      7,500      3,000     10,000   3,000     1,000     3,000     32,000
Berseem               -      1,000      1,200         -       3,400     700       200       500      7,000
Rice                1,000    1,800      2,700         -       5,700   1,100       400     1,300    14,000
Cotton              1,800      300      6,000      4,000      6,000      -        700     1,800     20,600
Milo and Corn       1,800      300      3,700         -       3,400     500       300     1,000     11,000
1/ Land preparation represents the annual cost of establishment (consisting
of land preparation, seed and initial fertilizers) and annual cost of cultivation.






AMNEX 7
Pae 1
I R. A N
DZZ IRRIGAT 1015 PROJMT
STAGE I
Marketing
1.        Livestock production in Iran, which together with by-products ac-
counts for about 36% of gross production in the agricultural sector, has
stagnated in recent years. The lmain factors contributing to the poor per-
formance are shortage of feedstuffs, animal diseases and low-quality breeds.
With about nine-tenths of Iran's agricultural lands being located in arid or
semi-arid regions, feedstuff production depends heavily on irrigation. In-
creased production in the livestock sector would thus depend largely on the
rate at which irrigation facilities could be expanded. Present indications
are, however, that even with ambitious plans for irrigation development
in the Fourth Five-Year Plan, the production of feedstuffs will fall short
of demand for some time. The project area would thus have good prospects for
marketing its excess feedstuff production. To that end investigations are
already under way fcr the establishment of an alfalfa dehydration plant in
the area.
2.        Demand for vegetables in Iran, according to the Fourth Five-Year
Plan, is projected to increase at around 6.5% per annum during the next
five years. WSith vegetables forming an important part of the Iranian diet,
and in the light of present expectations of population and income growth,
this trend is likely to continue. More significant than a sheer rise in de-
mand, from the project point of view, however, is the expected increased
demand for off-season vegetables and the development of quality consciousness
on the part of consumers. Due to its climate, the project ha.s excellent po-
tential to take advantage of the expected increased demand for vegetables
during the off-season; a period at which prevailing prices are substantially
higher than those during the regular season.
3.        Aside from domestic demand, there are also good prospects for exports
of vegetables, primarily to the Persian Gulf area. Exports of vegetables from
Iran during the past six years averaged about Rls 100 million (US$ 1.h million)
annually. Ho;ever, receipts from these exports have registered a gradual
decline during the period. Two factors account for this decline. Firstly,
Iran has been unable to neet the quality standards demanded in the Persian
Gulf area, the rmain outlet for Iran's vegetable eexports, and thus lost grounK-
to other major suppliers.  Secondly, though perhaps of less significance, the
rise in domestic demand made exports less attractive.  To the extent that
necessary marketing arrangements can be introduced successfully, the DIP could
recapture much of Iran's lost exports to the Persian Gulf area. Should the
project be successful in establishing a viable marketing organization with all
its ramifications (storage, grading, packing, etc.), as much as one-quarter
of the vegetable production of the project could be exported.






ANNEX 7
Page 2
t~.       The production of the food grains, wheat and rice, accounts for
nearly 46% of total agricultural production, excluding livestock, and about
two-thirds of the area presently under cultivation in Iran.  Much of the wheat
is growm under dry farming conditions. Though rice is grown exclusively
under irrigation, it is usually irrigated by run-of-the-river systems, and
thus also depends on climatic conditions. W;Jlhile Iran expects to increase
its wheat production during the next five years, much of the increase is
expected to occur on non-irrigated lands through improved yields. Pro-
duction would thus continue to fluctuate widely from year to year. Should
all production targets be met, a small surplus would be available for export
and the DIP would be in a good positions due to its location, to exploit
such an opportunity.






IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
KWPA ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF WATER AND POWER
MANAGING DIRECTOR OF K W P A
|DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECO |                                                                ADVISOR< 
TEHERAN OFFICE
SHAUR DEVELOPMENT      DEZ IRRIGATION   I RESOURCE INVESTIGATION
PROJECT                   :CT              PROJECT
--- --
r                                      _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~N INE R TIN   REZ   S  ---nH AH  A
S5UGAR CANE PROJECT |  l KARKHEH PROJECT      POWER DIVISION          ENGINION              REZ SHAH       I
cTl  Fp                 ~   ~~~~~~DIVISION  jNA DER SHAH PROJECT
I  DIVISION OF  |     l     l                     I   IORGANIZATION 8 TRAINING
FINANCE         ISECURITY DEPARTMENTT    ADMINISTRATION             DEPARTMENT
GENERAL           CENTRAL SERVICE
FADMINISTRATION          DIVISION
---- DENOTES TECHNICAL AND ADVISORY RESPONSIBILITY                                                                        IBRD-3995  x
IBRD-3995~~c






IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
PLANING AND REVIEW BOARD
CHAIRMAN - PROJECT MANAGER
MEMBERS -DEPUTY FOR ADMINISTRATION                                      PROJECT      MANAGER                                             PROJECT CONSULTANTS
DEPUTY FOR ENGINEERING
DEPUTY FOR AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
HEAD OF PERSONNEL                                                                                                                                     CHIEF DEPUTY
AND TRAINING                                                                                                                                    PROJECT MANAGER
-[       :RECRUITMENT                          DEPUTY FOR                          DEPUTY FOR                          DEPUTY FOR                            LEGAL BUREAU
ADMINISTRATION                  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                      ENGINEERING
INTERNAL AND             ll                                                                                                                              LANDUS
EXTERNAL TANN                                 II                                                                                                      ADSETLEMENT        
F NANCE, BUDGET,                AGRICULTURAL PLANNING                     AGRICULTURAL                            SECURITY
WORKING CONDITIONS AND               HEALTH AND SANITATION                F      T    AMOPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                     ROJECT MANAGER'S
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~(IRIAIO)OFFICE
-F    -     TRANSIERIS          l     H           HOUSING           l     H        HORTICULTURE         l      q           SURVEY                            INFORMAFMTN
WATER MASTER'S
f4TERMINATIONS   l  H  TRANSPORT   l  H        MARKETING           l     H             OFFICE
WAREHOUSING                          ANIMAL HUSBANDRY              _        EQUIPMENT YARDS 
FARM MANAGEMENT AND                        SOLSRVEY
q   -        5-UPPLY          |      d :1  EXTENSION SERVICES                       AND DRAINAGE
COMMUNICATIONS                      AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                     SOIL LABORATORY
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
c~z
f'lm
February 1969                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD-4256  N X






ANNEX 8
Page 3
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PRDJECT
STAGE I
Staff Requirements and Costs
1968   1969   1970   1971    1972   1973   1974     1978
Iranian Staff
Professionals:
Agricultural        16      36      59     80     94    105    115      136
Engineering         10      17      23     31     20     19     18       13
Administrative      -         4      5      5      6-     6      6        3
Technicians:
Agricultural        45       71     69     65     63     62     60       74
Engineering         70     110    120     130    140    160    156      145
Administrative       2        8     13     14     16     13     13       10
Clerical:
Agricultural        -        8      11     14     17     19     23       35
Engineering         10      15      20     20     23     28     28       26
Administrative       3        7     14     16     18     15     15       12
Annual cost
(including
overheads)
US$ 'OOOs
equivalent          830   1,231   1,559  1,838  2,068  2,200 2,280     2,175
Project Consultants'
Expatriate Staff
Agricultural         5        9    13      13     13     13     -      -
Engineering          8       9      9      7       5      4     4






ANNa 9
Page 1
I R A N
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE I
Economic Rate of Return
1.        For the purpose of economic analysis, US$ 15.0 million were deducted
from the total project investments of US$ 74.3 million presented in Annex 4.
These deductions represent us$ 5.4 million for interest during construction;
US$ 4.2 million for the purchase of farm machinery which has been included
under production costs; US$ 1.1 million, or 40% of the cost of Class II and
III roads which would primarily be used for traffic between points outside
the project boundary; US$ 1.4 million, or roughly 50%, of the cost of the
re-regulating dan which is required ostensibly for river regulation resulting
from water releases for power generation; and US$ 2.9 million, representing
the cost of excess capacity in the west main canal to supply the Sugarcane
Plantation with 30 m3/sec, thus enabling the Plantation's area to be extended
from 5,000 ha to 10,000 ha and its pumped water supply to be largely con-
verted to gravity flow. On the other hand, a sum of us$ 5.1 million was
added to the cost stream between 1968 and 1974 for the cost of supporting
agricultural services.
2.        The changeover from the present cropping pattern and agricultural
practices to those projected in this report were assumed to occur gradually
during the initial 15 years of the project. Projected yields and production
costs for crops were assumed to be attained five years after the introduction
of irrigation and the increases in yields and production costs were phased
over these five years. Benefits from the sale of livestock were projected
to increase gradually during the initial 15-year period.
3.        Production costs include wages for family labor. Each family was
assumed to contribute 600 man-days annually at Pls 80 per man-day.   With an
average family unit of 10 ha, the cost of family labor is about Rls 5,000
per ha. Where additional labor wias required, it was ccnsidered as hired
labor.
4.        About US$ 0.4 million were added annually to the benefit stream froi
the seventh year omnfard to represent benefits accruing to areas lying outside
the project boundary which would be provided with an assured water supply
througlh the project's irrigation system but where no further development is
contemplated.  These areas include about 5,600 ha in the Karkheh Flood Plain
and 7,500 along the Karkheh River. Water releases to these areas would
amount to 27.5 m3/sec and incremental benefits were conservatively estimated
at US$ 30 per ha annually.
5.        The economic analysis computation in which past expenditures are
treated as sunk costs yields a rate of return to the economr of about 12%.
Details of this analysis are given below:






ANIFEX 9
Page 2
Net Incremental
Year                     Costsi/              Value of Production
--      US$ million equivalent---------
1                        3.3                         0.5
2                       10.8                         1.0
3                       12.1                         1.7
4                       12.9                         2.4
5                       12.1                         3.6
6                        9.9                         148
7                        6.7                         5.9
8                        0.9                         7.1
9                                                    8.2
10                                                    9.4
11                                                   10.14
12                                                   11.4
13                                                   12.4
114                                                  13.3
15
50                        0>9                        13.3
The above streams of expenditure and net income are equalized at about 12%.
1/ Project costs from the eighth year onwards represent the annual cost of
operation ard maintenance.
6.        An alternative economic analysis examined was one in which the
base year for the project was taken as 1962. In this alternative, all the
investments for infrastructure in the DPIP to date which amount to US$ 14.8
million equivalent were taken into account. However, the US$ 12.5 million
equivalent expenditures to date in the DPIP for supporting agricultural ser-
vices have been excluded from this analysis since they were mainly for ex-
perimental purposes (see Annex 1). Also included a.s part of the cost of the
project were US$ 6.9 million, representing the DIP's Stage I pro-rated share
of the cost of Mohammad Reza, Shah Pahlavi Dam allocated to irrigation. Benefits
taken into account in this analysis include the incremental net value of pro-
duction from DPIP lands during the period 1963-68. The annual benefits amounted
to US$ 1.3 million in 1968.  When these benefits and costs were added to those
from the DIP Stage I and discounted over the life of the project, the internal-
rate of return approached 10%.






-.  CA3PIAO      S  ~~~~S. R.
I R A N                                                               -        r               I A A N
DEZ IRRIGATION              PROJECT              %              {,                                           Thrl 
STAG E     I                                                                          t   ..1.                    .
~~0~~~~  A..
D- S, 'E ,,,
EZL DEZRIJL BENCH
t         STAGL~      STAE -l\
(   \  .'t-S.> t:   SU;tRPLANTATION    .                  w 
4                e~~~~~~~~~FTEISSION \ 
|  >  ro A for l.oJ-l d,ese] :;lmlz  I               I J  \ \   HAFT TAPEH SUGAR
-  dobolv of soa., ot       tSs        \  L          CANE PLANTATION
. .. . rol V - P d  g sh - , - h -  -. .  F  | o d s
-   :rose! o urfaced o                                                      -_          *t        0Se
Poo IrCoped SPoof -Pusohor rood                                                                              U..X\_r*-i,I 
11.1                       z  1o Jy f, o ,Xa, P ~~~~~~~SOhorrrhn .L.lTk



