Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FIL  E  C 0 PY
Report No. 3061
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 594-IRN)
June 30, 1980
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
DIP             Dez Irrigation Project
DMP             Dez MIulti-purpose Project
KWPA            Khuzestan Water and Power Authority
DPIP            Dez Pilot Irrigation Project, pilot
irrigation scheme of DMP
DRC             Development and Resources Corporation
PO              Plan Organization
LMF             Large Scale Mechanized Farming



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Performance Audit Report
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 594-IRN)
Table of Contents
PaRe
Preface                                                                          i
Basic Data                                                                      ii
Highlights                                                                     iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.     Project. Summary                                                          1
II.    Main Issues                                                               3
Project Completion Report                                           3
Bank Support of a Deficient Project Concept                         4
Relations with other Projects                                       8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.     Introduction                                                              9
II.    Background                                                               11
III.   Project Formulation                                                      13
IV.    Change of Development Pattern                                            16
V.     Physical Implementation                                                  18
VI.    Organization and Management                                               20
VII.   Economic and Social Impact                                                23
VIII.  Economic and Financial Analysis                                           32
IX.    Bank and Consultant Performance                                          34
X.     Conclusions                                                               37
Annexes
1.  Description of the Project
2.  Construction Schedule
3.  Stage I, Cost Estimates
4.  Stage I, Allocation of Loan Proceeds
5.  Agribusiness Cropping Patterns in 1977
6.  Iran Shellcott Budget 1978
7.  Farm Corporations
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Project Performance Audit Report
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 594-IRN)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Dez Irrigation Project in Iran
for which Loan 594-IRN was approved in March 1969 in the sum of US $30 mil-
lion. The final disbursement in respect of this loan was made on October 14,
1977.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by she
Operations Evaluation Department and a Project Completion Report (PCR) dated
June 29, 1979.   The PCR was prepared  by the Europe, Middle East and Nortl
Africa Regional Office on the basis of a country visit in June 1978.   The
audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report (No. TO 687a)
dated March 3, 1969, the President's Report (P677) of ?-.,_ch 6, 1969  the Loan
Agreement dated April 18, 1969 and the PCR; correspondence with the Borrower
and internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Barnk
files have also been consulted and Bank staff associated with the project have
been interviewed.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on March 25,
1980, for comments; however, none were received.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the salient features
with respect to the project's principal achievements and shortcomings.   The
points discussed in the audit memorandum have been selected because of their
relevance to this and other projects; in particular to discuss the background
against which Bank decisions on lerd 1ng were taken.






In  1t   Ig;~~        >4  vnws     w  1                         v 
5 ° t a ' 1 n   r _ <  o  ~~~~~~ N < _                                                                                                                     ? *                    2
Rg         n      c>rsggIItHgrg      
^  3   ;   3  n    ffi    o   rf  t                                                             fD  8                   F  =                       O  r     N                      C  C  p  p           H.   Vf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
g r   n   : z   ft t z                                                                                        rl                  pof- - - - - - -r-o- -






- iii -
Project Performance Audit Report
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 594 IRN)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project followed the Dez Multipurpose Project and aimed at
developing the area irrigable from the Pahlavi dam, through irrigation and
drainage facilities, on-farm development, and supporting infrastructure and
services.
The project became the subject of controversy at loan negotiations,
which controversy continued during implementation.  At issue was whether the
area should be developed through improved traditional farming, locally tested
and endorsed by the Bank, or through large scale mechanized farming, not
locally tested but endorsed by the Government.  The Bank gradually accepted
Government decisions to develop more and more, and eventually all, project
area through large scale farming despite warnings by supervision missions.
The large scale farming attempt failed and, with it, the project.  Reestimated
economic returns are negative, compared with 10% estimated at appraisal.  The
main lesson from the project is that technological and social innovations
usually require local testing before a full scale project is undertaken, in
line with the Bank's original position in this case.
The following points may be of special interest:
-     case appears to have existed for suspending disbursements in
this project (PPAI4 paras. 26 and 28);
-     large scale farming failed because of improper assessment of
local conditions and poor management (PPAM paras. 32 and 33;
PCR paras. 7.11 and 7.12);
-     consultants'  development philosophy of rapid large scale
mechanization appears to have been implemented (PCR paras.
3.03; and 9.06-9.09);
-     physical  construction of  infrastructure  easy compared with
achieving less tangible agricultural and social objectives
(PCR para. 10.08); and
-     lack of data hampered drawing conclusion on fate of original
population (PCR para. 7.23).






Project Performance Audit Memorandum
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 594-IRN)
I. PROJECT SUltIARY
1.          In 1960, the Bank made a loan (247-IRN) of US $42 million to Iran
for the Dez Multipurpose Project entailing the construction of a 190 m high
dam and a hydro-electric power plant, and including a 20,000 ha pilot irriga-
tion scheme.   Under the pilot scheme irrigation canals and structures were
built and farm services provided, to assess the prospects for developing the
entire area (100,000 ha) to be eventually irrigated from the dam Although
production was still low during the initial years, crop yields had neverthe-
less increased significantly and the Bank judged that with improved tenancy
and organizational arrangements newly irrigated areas could be developed
through improved traditional agriculture.
2.          In 1967, the Government submitted a feasibility study for develop-
ing the remaining irrigable area (80,000 ha).  Appraisal of this development
stage was undertaken in November of the same year. The appraisal mission felt
that soil suitability in the project area needed  further clarification;  a
follow-up mission found, however, that on the whole soils were suitable for
sustained irrigation farming.   In May 1968, a third mission completed the
appraisal and loan negotiations started in October.  Disagreement between the
Bank and the Government on the area to be reserved for large scale mechanized
farming resulted in suspending negotiations. The Bank suggested to only set
aside 3,800 ha for large scale farming on a pilot basis while the Iranian
delegation wanted full flexibility in allowing up to 57,000 ha for this
purpose.  A compromise was reached several weeks later in limiting the
area for large scale farming to 20,300 ha while the remaining area could later
be reallocated from improved traditional farming to large scale mechanized
farming, depending on the latter's success.
3.          The Dez Irrigation Project (the project)  thus agreed, was to
increase agricultural production through provision of:
-      irrigation and drainage facilities on 37,000 ha;
-      on-farm  development  on 57,000 ha, including  20,000 already
irrigated under the pilot irrigation program;
-      flood  protection  levees,  roads  and  three district  operational
centers;
-      operational and maintenance equipment;
-      a credit program for and procurement of farm machinery;
-      a training  center and supporting agricultural services; and
-      studies on (on-farm) drainage, credit and marketing requirements.



4.           The project was to be implemented by the Khuzestan Water and Power
Authority (KWPA), a regional agency of the Ministry of Water and Power.   An
experienced consulting firm was to supervise construction of project works
and to assist in studies and  establishing supporting services.  Project works
were scheduled to be completed by 1974 and full development was expected to be
reached five years after introduction of regulated water supply. Total
project cost was estimated at US $69 million, and the economic rate of return
at 12%.   A loan (594-IRN) of US $30 million was approved for the project in
March 1969.
5.           The loan became effective in August 1969.   Earlier, in April of
the same year, the Government had informed the Bank that letters of intent had
been signed with agribusinesses for more than 55,000 ha (of which 39,000 in
the project area).   Since this was in breach of the Loan Agreement, a Bank
supervision mission recommended  to suspend  disbursements.   Bank management
did not accept the recommendation but agreed instead (for reasons not speci-
fied in the files) with the Government to extend the large scale farming area
from 20,300 ha to 45,000 ha, while insisting that 10,000 ha be reserved for
improved traditional farming and 2,000 ha for newly proposed farming corpora-
tions.   This agreement was formalized in a supplemental letter of May 1971.
6.           In early 1973, another supervision mission reported that the
Government had decided to increase the farm corporation area from 2,000 to
12,000 ha, and the mission also recommended to suspend disbursements.   The
Bank considered this too drastic an action and requested clarification from
the Government.  The Government informed the Bank that it would serve farmers
in the project area better through farm corporations than through improved
traditional farming, and that it had allocated the remaining 12,000 ha of the
project area  to farm corporations.   The Bank accepted  this decision.   The
smallholder development project as originally envisaged by the Bank had thus
been transformed into a large scale mechanized farming project, completely in
line with the Government's original concept.
7.          As a result of the change in objectives project components com-
ceived for traditional farmers had become irrelevant: on-farm development; a
credit program for and procurement of farm machinery; a training center and
supporting agricultural services; and studies on (on-farm) drainage, credit
and marketing requirements.   Bank assistance from then on was limited to the
remaining components:   irrigation and drainage facilities; levees, roads and
district centers; and operational and maintenance equipment.
8.           KWPA, the agency responsible for implementing all project activi-
ties, underwent a major change in its organization the day before loan approv-
al converting it from a regional development agency into a joint stock company
operated on commercial principles and intended to promote large scale mecha-
nized farming.  A number of other agencies was responsible for parts of the
project and organizational arrangements changed frequently.
9.           Project works were constructed largely as planned, through four
civil works contracts.  The standard of design and construction is high; the
irrigation system is, in the Bank's view, even excessively complex.  Overall
cost overruns on the project were only 4% but considerable time overruns
occured.   Because of limited project scope the loan amount was reduced from
US$30.0 million  to US$22.5 million.   The project was listed  as a problem
project during 1970 and again in mid 1973, because the Government breached
covenants limiting  the area allocated  to agribusiness and farm corporations
(paragraphs 5 and 6 above).



10.         At appraisal, project objectives were  to increase agricultural
production through expanding cropped areas, higher yields, introduction of
high value crops and improved livestock and dairy production.  Large scale
farming, if initroduced, would not change these objectives, but was thought to
earlier reach them. The anticipated rapid development did not take place. By
1978, large scale farms cropped only 44% of the irrigable area allocated to
them, compared with a projected 119% cropping intensity for smallholder
agriculture (Appraisal Report, Annex 6) and an actual 63% pre-project cropping
intensity.   Large scale farms did not fare any better in obtaining higher
yields: all crop yields remained below appraisal projections and (except for
wheat and sugarbeets) even below pre-project levels. Introduction of new high
value crops did take place, but less than projected.  Some livestock develop-
ment also took place but data on this subcomponent hardly exist.
11.          Through twenty years of effort, the project area has experienced
major upheavals.  Traditional farming has been destroyed, large scale mechan-
ized farming, which was to be the alternative, has been found unviable.
Despite long and costly efforts, high value crops that might have justified
the heavy infrastructure investments and high operating costs, have not been
identified.   Crop revenues barely suffice to cover direct costs, let alone
overhead costs.  The economic return on the project, including dam and irriga-
tion systems, is negative and remains negative even when the cost of the dam
is treated as sunk cost.   The project area is at present mostly in public
hands: KWPA and farm corporations. A small number, only about 30%, of
the original farmers and tenants have found a living as laborers on large
farms where they earn about half their pre-project incomes (in real terms).
The majority of the area's original population has migrated to urban centers.
II. MAIN ISSUES
The Project Completion Report
12.         The project history is clearly and accurately described in the
PCR.   The most important issue in the PCR is that the Bank, during project
execution, continued to accept Government proposed changes to expand agri-
business while aware that large scale mechanized farming had not been tested
in Iran.  The Bank did not suspend disbursements, as proposed by supervision
missions, because it expected to increase its participation in Iran's develop-
ment program, which participation might have been endangered by suspending
disbursements for this project.  A main finding of the PCR is also that
various diseconomies of scale rendered large scale mechanized farms less
profitable than improved traditional family farming, not burdened with high
overhead cost.  Since only 30% of the original population was retained
for labor (the remaining 70% had to migrate) smallholder agriculture would
also have been preferable from a social point of view.
13.          Lessons have been learned from the project by both the Bank and
the Government.   In June 1972 the Bank terminated negotiations on the follow
on project (Dez II) when it discovered that the Borrower had again changed
project design in favor of agribusiness and to the detriment of improved
traditional farming.  By 1975 the Government also recognized that it had been
wrong in promoting agricultural development through agribusinesses.  However,
by then the damage to the project area's agricultural development was done.
Future development plans for the area are uncertain because the new Govern-
ment's agricultural policy is unknown and a farming system to profitably use
available irrigation works has yet to be introduced.



- 4 -
14.          The PCR conclusions (Section X) are not as far reaching as they
should be.  It is stated that the Government's approach of gradually forcing
its policy upon the Bank resulted in the project's failure to accomplish the
expected production increase.  It is further mentioned that the more the Bank
was willing to compromise the more it became involved in the project, and
that, while emphasizing economic criteria as important tools in decision-
making, it accepted that political considerations were of overriding impor-
tance to the Borrower.  According to the PCR conclusions the main lesson from
the project is that construction of infrastructure is relatively easy compared
with achieving less tangible agricultural and social project objectives, which
is  particularly  difficult if  Bank and Borrower views differ.   The audit,
however, suggests that the main lesson is that the Bank should not have
supported a project which, as approved, was evidently a poor compromise (see
below).
Bank Support of a Deficient Project Concept
15.          To understand  the decisions to continue  the project, more of
the project's early history and Bank relations with Iran need explanation.
Iran's economy had grown 8% annually during the Third Five Year Plan completed
in March 1968, well above the target of 6%.  The objectives of the Fourth Plan
(1968 to 1973) were ambitious but thought achievable if petroleum revenues
continued to grow rapidly.  The Plan's basic strategy was to create a rapidly
growing modern sector, which would increasingly absorb the labor force of the
large traditional sector.   Though Iran was industrializing  at a rapid pace,
agriculture still accounted for almost one quarter of the country's gross
national product. Second in importance was the oil sector, the most important
source  of revenue  for financing  economic development.   As a result of in-
creased investments, and despite oil revenues, the country's 1968 balance of
payments showed a deficit of about US$350 million, expected to increase
further over the next years. Also, the Bank - Iran capital flow was negative.
Based on these developments the Government requested the Bank to counsel on
and play a greater role in Iran's development.
16.          Agricultural production met most of Iran's domestic requirements
at the time, but had grown slowly at only 2 - 3% annually during the sixties
and  net imports of a vcabpdiroecd foexpbih r,nor irbomeharv.   With a rapidly
growing population and increasing incomes Iran urgently needed to step up
its agricultural production.   The need  for the increase was clear, but the
differing views on how to achieve it was at the core of the controversy
between  the  Government and  the  Bank about this  project.   Land  reform  had
been introduced in 1962, with a follow-up phase in 1965, and was virtually
completed in 1969.  The new land tenure system offered farmers incentives to
improve their lands and increase their production. Government agricultural
strategy focused on land reform, large scale irrigation and institutional
credit.   In an effort to  raise  agricultural efficiency  Government shifted
emphasis from improving traditional agriculture towards developing large scale
farming and begun to experiment with various forms of organizing agriculture.
The policy shift had been promoted by consultants retained by Government for,
among others, the predecessor project under which the irrigation dam was
built.  In the Bank's view, however, agricultural strategy was to concentrate
on providing water, fertilizers, improved seeds, credit and remunerative farm
prices; on-farm mechanization, let alone rapid, large scale mechanization, was
not considered useful or economic.



17.         To demonstrate  that agricultural,  administrative and  technical
problems could be solved, the Bank had financed a pilot irrigation project on
some 20,000 ha under the predecessor project.  Government, in its drive for
rapid development of the Greater Dez area and its growing impatience with
the slow pace of water utilization from the dam, considered progress of
traditional agriculture under the pilot program too slow.   To maintain good
relations with the Borrower, the Bank, in 1966, reluctantly agreed that
substantial agronomic progress was made under the pilot irrigation program.
Although only one year's experience was gained instead of the three it orig-
inally required, the Bank decided that financing the follow up project should
proceed.   The Iranians interpreted  this decision as unrestricted agreement
to further developing the Dez area and, in 1967, started constructing sophis-
ticated and costly irrigation works that would allow both improved traditional
and large scale mechanized farming.
18.          During  a meeting,  in early 1967, the consultants informed Bank
staff that they and the Iranian authorities were convinced that the Greater
Dez project area would have to be brought under commercial agriculture to
attain a reasonable level of production without substantial delays and with a
satisfactory return on investment.   For this purpose they intended to en-
courage large scale Iranian and Californian operators to take up irrigated
farming in the area.  In their view local farmers would not become adequately
familiar with irrigated farming in the foreseeable future.  Some land would
have to be reserved for them and they would also need improved marketing and
other services of the same type and intensity as had been provided under the
pilot irrigation project.   Farmers could also engage in contract farming for
the planned agribusinesses.   At this stage Bank staff expressed no objection
in principle to the idea and expected to be in a better position to examine
the detailed proposals after completion of the feasibility report.
19.          At project appraisal, in 1967, Bank staff concluded, contrary to
Government views, that foreign investors would probably not take up large
tracts of land, and that Government had in any case given insufficient atten-
tion to problems of displacing local farmers who had just been allocated land
under the land reform.  Mainly for these reasons the appraisal mission opted
for increased agricultural production through local farmers, thereby accepting
a relatively slow transition from traditional to modern farming.
20.          Improved traditional farming had also been tested locally, under
the pilot irrigation program, while large scale mechanized farming had not
been. Smallholder yields had increased as expected but cropping intensity had
remained much below expectations because of slow progress of on-farm develop-
ment work, which in turn resulted from insecure land tenure making farmers
reluctant to invest in land development, and because of high land-leveling
cost.   Nevertheless, results showed that improved traditional farming had a
fair chance of success, and therefore smallholder development backed by
agricultural supporting services was the only alternative the Bank would
endorse in the circumstances.
21.         The Bank thus opted for, and the audit concurs, improved tradi-
tional farming. Since, however, the appraisal mission was aware that a proj-
ect without a large scale farming component was unlikely to be accepted by the
Government, it proposed to allocate 3,800 ha of the project area (a sparsely



- 6 -
populated part with good soils and good irrigation opportunities) to large
scale farming where its merits under local conditions could be demonstrated.
All other 53,200 ha were to be developed through improved traditional farming.
22.         At negotiations, the Government managed to obtain Bank approval on
expanding the area for large scale farming from 3,800 ha to 20,300 ha. During
implementation, the Bank agreed to a further increase of agribusiness area to
45,000 ha, while the remaining 12,000 ha was allocated to farm corporations.
The final land tenure corresponded exactly with the one the Government and its
consultants had in mind from the beginning.   Therefore, Government views on
proper development strategy (large scale mechanized farming) remained un-
changed despite their apparent agreement at appraisal to focus the project on
traditional farming.
23.         This change  in project concept away from the appraisal design
raises questions on the appropriateness of Bank decisions, both at negotia-
tions and during supervision, to go ahead with the project.  Should the Bank
have anticipated the Government decision to revert to large scale mechanized
farming, and have halted the project? This option was not practicable because
Government agreement on improved traditional farming had been obtained, and
the project was otherwise sound on agronomic, economic and social grounds.
24.         At negotiations, however, when the Government sought to drasti-
cally increase the project area for large scale farming, it should have become
clear to the Bank that Government commitment to the appraisal design no longer
existed. The Bank nevertheless agreed to compromise. The Iranian negotiating
team, under great pressure from their Government, actually requested a free
hand  in allocating  project lands  to large scale mechanized  farming.   The
project emerging from negotiations was an unfortunate compromise pairing up a
small scale farming project already tested and endorsed by the Bank, with a
large scale farming project not yet tried out but endorsed by the Government.
With the benefit of hindsight, negotiations would have been the most appro-
priate time for the Bank to withdraw from the Dez project.
25.         Shortly afterwards,  in April  1970,  a Bank agricultural  sector
review mission visited Iran and noted that despite increasing economic growth
two problems had emerged:   steadily rising unemployment and a rapidly deter-
iorating balance of trade. The two fastest growing sectors, oil and industry,
had not provided sufficient employment.  Agricultural imports constituted an
increasing burden on the trade balance. Growth of agricultural production, at
about 2.5% annually over the period 1957-69, had been considerably slower than
the overall economic growth.  The mission identified investment possibilities
in agriculture and gave priority to livestock production and processing,
irrigation infrastructure, forestry, agricultural credit, marketing of fruits
and vegetables, and fisheries.   To facilitate successful implementation of
these investments, institutional, organizational and policy changes were
required.   Regarding farm systems, the mission emphasized that neither agri-
business, which did not contribute to developing local agriculture, nor small
subsistence farms, which the mission considered unviable, should be the focus
of the agricultural strategy. Instead, the mission recommended to concentrate
development efforts on commercial family farms, covering about 80% of the
country's agricultural land.



26.         Despite Bank staff's continuous reservations on agribusiness
and apparent Government breaches of covenants, the Bank did not invoke sus-
pension of disbursements as recommended by supervision missions because senior
Government officials assured that matters would be corrected.  Nevertheless,
Bank staff interviewed for this audit, in hindsight, agreed that on project
grounds alone there were then strong grounds for the loan to have been cancell-
ed or disbursements suspended.
27.         Reasons to continue the project, however, included the Bank ex-
pectation of increased participation in Iran's development program and con-
tinued Government assurance of corrective action.   Furthermore, in 1971, a
high level Iranian delegation requested Bank assistance and advice on agri-
cultural policy, leading to the establishment of a Bank agricultural task
force!/ in Iran.   Also, the Bank still hoped that, by continuing the dia-
logue,  it could  eventually change Government agricultural  strategy.   This,
however, proved to be an optimistic view.
28.         Another argument to continue the project was that suspending
disbursements would have appeared as Bank rejection of Government moderni-
zation efforts and was considered too heavy a penalty.  This would have
irritated the Government and endangered Bank relationship with the country,
since the Government had given the impression it would cut relations with the
Bank if disbursements were to be halted. This argument appears weak, however;
despite the Bank suspending negotiations on Dez II in 1972, lending to Iran,
rather than coming to a halt, increased dramatically during the following
three years.   In the audit's view this shows that suspending disbursements
was unlikely to have endangered the lending program to Iran.
29.         The increases in petroleum prices of 1973 radically changed the
economic position, with Iran becoming a net capital exporter. The Bank became
interested in borrowing from the country.  In February 1974, when Iran agreed
to become a net lender to the Bank, the Bank's major role in Iran switched
from lending to providing technical advice.  Later, because of deeprooted and
longstanding disagreements, of which agribusiness was only one, Iran asked the
Bank to close down ARDAM in 1976.   The consultants for the Dez project left
Iran in January 1979, when their contract was suspended by the new Government.
30.        The question arises under which conditions "country grounds" should
become the overriding factor determining continuation of a poor project.  In
the case of Dez, the project was kept alive despite the fact that the basic
concept was untested, known to be extremely risky, socially disruptive and
would concentrate project benefits in the hands of a few large companies which
would transfer part of their profits abroad. Nevertheless, in the face of its
own technical judgement, the Bank continued to believe country grounds justi-
fied this support.  The Government also recognized by 1975 that it had chosen
the wrong approach for developing the Dez area and that Bank objections to
agribusiness in the project area had been correct.
1/ Later renamed Agricultural and Rural Development Advisory Missiion (ARDAM).



- 8-
Relations with other projects
31.         The Dez project was not the only one which supported ill-conceived
large scale mechanized farming attempts in the project area (see also PCR
paragraph 7.09).   Three loans for agricultural credit projects through the
Agricultural Development Bank of Iran (ADBI) helped finance a lending program
primarily aimed at developing irrigated commercial farms.   The loans totaled
US $60.5 million and were signed between 1970 and 1974.   The loans for the
first two projects were audited in 1976 and the loan for the third project was
fully disbursed by 1979.  The following two paragraphs discuss the reasons and
consequences of ADBI involvement.
32.         The audit reportl/ on the first two of the projects makes it
clear that "Although no funds had been separately earmarked for large scale
multipurpose, agribusiness investments, such investments were clearly in-
tended.   ...Two subloans under each project, accounting for [a total of about
US $2 million, or] nearly 20% and 7% of the total value of subloans under the
first and second projects, were made in this category, all to large scale
agribusinesses in Khuzestan.   These agribusinesses leased land under a
special law passed in 1969 that allowed the expropriation of irrigated land
below dams for the development of large scale farming.   ... Higher than an-
ticipated land development cost, poor management, and other problems resulted
in a slow rate of development of the leased land in Khuzestan.   Further, as
the land was acquired from small subsistence farmers who had only recently
been given tenure rights under the land reforms, they had to be resettled.
Such a plan was developed but its implementation was erratic at best.   The
poor performance and the social dislocation accompanying the operations of
these agribusinesses have raised serious questions relating to their role in
Iranian development policy".
33.         A 1978 supervision mission of the third credit project (Ln.
1046-IRN) highlighted ADBI's problems with four financially troubled agri-
businesses in Khuzestan, for which ADBI had then loaned US $38 million and
which owed ADBI US $4.5 million in overdue repayments.  ADBI explained to the
mission that prior to its involvement with agribusinesses it had reviewed
feasibility studies on similar enterprises but these studies were based on
experience in other countries and research results obtained from small ex-
perimental  plots in Iran.   Essentially,  the agribusiness idea was new and
politically popular at the time and there was pressure from the Ministry of
Agriculture on ADBI to get involved  in its financing.   Subsequently, poor
yields, enormous cost overruns, price controls, input shortages and general
management failure made the agribusinesses virtually bankrupt, confronting
ADBI with serious financial problems.  "ADBI's last financial statements were
qualified by its auditors on the ground that the value of these investments
and the full recoverability by the bank of these loans is doubtful...,   for
which ADBI had  not made any specific  provision.   The agricultural bank's
continued support to these enterprises through new loans in the face of such
high commercial and financial risks casts serious doubts on whether ADBI is
conducting its operations in accordance with sound agricultural, admini-
strative and financial policies and practices, as required under... the Loan
Agreement"2/.
1/  OED,  Project Performance Audit Report:   Iran First and Second ADBI
Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 662-IRN and 821-IRN), March 24,
1976.
2/ Bank Supervision Report of May 5, 1978.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 594-IRN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of Iran requested in the late 1950s a loan from the
Bank for the development of the Khuzestan area in the southwest of Iran.  The
area is bordered by Iraq to the west and the Persian Gulf to the south, and
contains the oil fields of Ahwaz and the oil refinery of Abadan (see Map).
The Dez Irrigation area is located in the upper Khuzestan on both banks of
the Dez river, about 120 km north of Ahwaz and has about 125,000 ha 1/1 of
irrigable land. The area has an assured water supply of satisfactory quality;
the topography and soils are suitable for irrigation.   A main line railroad
and a national highway connecting the country's principal ports with Tehran,
run through the project area.
1.C2       The climate is arid, very hot in summer, with mean daily tempera-
tures exceeding 400C for four consecutive months, and cool in winter, with
occasional light frosts.   Rainfall is highly erratic.   Out of an average
annual rainfall at Dezful of 290 mm and at Safiabad of 267 mm only 150 mm of
annual winter rainfall is effective for crop growth.   As a result of high
temperatures and low humidity, crop irrigation requirements are among the
highest in the world.
1.03       In 1967, the total population in the project area  was estimated at
130,000 with 92,000 living in the towns of Dezful, Andimeshk and Shush and
38,000 in 186 villages in the rural areas. Rural population density was low,
averaging about 45 persons per km2 but varying considerably with the location
of dependable water supplies.  After the initial phases of the land reform in
the 1960s about 80,% of the lands in the project area were worked by farmers on
a 30 year lease. Village lands were farmed continually by the tenants. Main
winter crops were wheat and  barley and main summer crops rice, sesame and
vegetables. Crop yields were low basically due to inadequate moisture through-
out the year; even under traditional irrigation systems, however, insufficient
use of modern inputs and outmoded methods of production kept yields in the
project area at low levels.  Sheep husbandry was extensive and more important
than cattle husbandry.
1.04       The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA), a regional develop-
ment agency with wide powers, was established in 1960 with authority over.
the total project which, in its several phases, covers the entire gamut of
facilities from the dam to conveyance systems and water management. The first
phase of this, the Dez Multi-purpose Project (DMP), for which the Bank made a
loan of US $42 million in 1960 (247-IRN), consisted of the construction of the
l90 meter high Pahlavi dam in the Dez River gorge north of Dezful, a reservoir
with a total capacity of approximately 3,315 million cubic meters, as well as
1/    The total irrigation area is variously estimated at 105,000 to 125,000
ha gross and at 94,000 ha net. This was divided into the 10,000 ha sugar
plantation of Haft Tapeh, and the 84,000 ha of the Dez Irrigation Project.



a power house and associated transmission  facilities.   It also included a
pilot  irrigation scheme on 20,000 hectares,  the .irst step in the overall
irrigation plan for the Dez area.   The pilot irrigation scheme covered the
Safiabad Research Station as well as extension, credit, marketing and mechan-
ization, demonstration and repair services provided by KWPA.
1.05        Although water deliveries to some of the pilot irrigation areas
commenced in late 1963, construction of the main distribution system was
completed only in 1966,  two years behind schedule.   Land leveling and the
re-alignment, improvement and construction of farm irrigation channels, which
were to be the responsibility of the land owners with technical assistance
provided by consultants under the project, were delayed due to changes brought
about by the land reform program in the 1960s.   Bv 1968 only 1,500 hectares
had been improved.   However,  the effective implementation of the other ele-
ments of the pilot irrigation scheme,  the Safiabad Research Station and the
extension and credit services, resulted in substantial increases in production
and in the incomes of the 1,700 farmers in the pilot area.
1.06       The next phase in the development of the project area, which came
to be called Stage I, included the construction of a re-regulating dam and a
diversion dam near Dezful with canals, drains, irrigation distribution systems,
flood protection works and maintenance roads to serve an additional 37,000
hectares.   The Bank made a loan of US$30 million for the Stage I Project in
1969 (594-IRN) (see Annex I). The loan also provided for the on-farm develop-
ment of the 20,000 hectares of the pilot area and for 37,000 hectares of new
area, a total of 57,000 hectares including service buildings and facilities,
farm machinery and equipment, credit and training services.
1.07        In early 1972, the Bank appraised what was called Stage II of the
total project area.  This was envisaged as a project to provide irrigation to
the remaining 27,000 ha not covered under other projects, thus fully utilizing
the irrigation water resources  of  the Pahlavi  dam.   It was to consist of
irrigation and drainage systems, flood protection, on-farm development, roads
and bridges.   It was also to include supporting agricultural services, par-
ticularly research and extension services for indigenous farmers.   About 80%
of the Stage II project area was to be developed by two largely foreign-owned
agribusinesses which would finance all on-farm development on their lands
but on-farm development in the indigenous farming sector would be financed
by the project.   Loan negotiations on the Stage II project were suspended in
June 1972 because of disagreements between the Bank and Iran on social aspects
of project implementation.  The Iranian government subsequently financed Stage
II from its own resources.
1.08        Finally, in 1972 the International Finance Corporation approved a
loan of US$1.25 million for one of the agribusinesses involved in the project
area.   The loan was never disbursed because the agribusiness firm could not
meet the conditions of loan effectiveness.   The agribusinesses in the project
area were partly financed later on with Bank funds through two of the three
loans to what came to be called the Agricultural Development Bank of Irar.
(Loans 662-IR!, 821-IRN but not through 1040-IRN).



- 11 -
1.09       This Project Completion Report relates specifically to Loan 594-IRN
which helped finance Stage I.  However the Stage I project was but a phase in
the progressive development of the Khuzestan area and can be understood only
in the context of the overall development. This report therefore makes
extensive reference to all aspects in its effort to comprehend the results of
irrigation development in the Khuzestan area.
1.10       The mission consulted the extensive Bank files and studies prepared
by a US consulting firm which played a decisive role in promoting area develop-
ment. The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority had agreed to present its views
on project implementation but in the event its report was never prepared. As
a result KWPA's views are only indirectly reflected in this completion report.
Comments of the Bank staff involved in project preparation and implementation
helped in shedding light on certain events.
II. BACKGROUND
The Dez Multipurpose Project
2.01         In 1956, the Iranian Plan Organization invited a then recently
founded US consulting firm to assist the Government in its efforts to develop
the Khuzestan region.   From the start the Plan Organization agreed with the
consultant that the development of the Khuzestan area should be modeled on the
experience of the Tennessee Valley Authority in the USA. This implied an
initial heavy public investment in infrastructure followed by the opening up
of the area to private investment leading eventually to sustained economic and
social development.   The basic agreement on this concept by the Borrower and
its consultants led to a series of confrontations with the Bank in the late
1950s on the scope and the nature of the Khuzestan development.
2.02       In 1957, the consultant acting on behalf of the Plan Organization,
submitted to the Bank a proposal to develop the Khuzestan Area through an
irrigation scheme including a thin concrete arch dam 190 m. high, creating a
reservoir of 3,315 million cubic meters, an underground power house, canals
and distribution works to irrigate a gross area of 110,000 ha. and to produce
initially 130 MW of power.   The Bank found the proposed project too big, too
expensive and beyond Iran's administrative capacity. It argued that the need
for the proposed project had not been established beyond doubt and that the
anticipated costs by far outweighed the benefits likely to be achieved.  The
Bank, therefore, commissioned another consulting firm to study the investment
and operating costs of thermal alternatives.   The study indicated that power
would be generated more cheaply and more efficiently in thermal plants burning
waste gas.  The Bank was also convinced that pump irrigation should be tried
in the first place to gain experience in small areas before embarking on a
major project. The thermal plant and the pump irrigation schemes would
satisfy the same power and irrigation needs during the first 6-10 years as the



- 12 -
hydropower scheme at a considerably lower total expense.  The Bank suggested
that the hydropower scheme should be built only after its need had been
established with more certainty.
2.03       There then followed three years of complex negotiation between the
Bank on the one hand and the Government on the other.   At first, the con-
sultants threatened to withdraw if their proposal were rejected but this did
not move the Bank to change its mind.   The consultants then persuaded the
Government to start preparatory work on their overall project without con-
sulting the Bank. As a result, US$15 million were spent on preliminary works
for the Pahlavi storage dam.  The Bank was then asked to review the project
once again.   Since the US$15 million already invested would be wasted if the
Bank's original proposal for a thermal power plant supplying pump irrigation
schemes were implemented, the Bank had to treat this amount as sunk cost. When
it did this, the cost comparison of the two schemes came out about even.
Despite this the Bank was still unwilling to finance a single project that
covered the construction of the Pahlavi dam and the total development of the
irrigated area, regarding it as administratively and technically unmanageable.
After prolonged negotiation, it was agreed that initial irrigation development
would be confined to a 20,000 ha pilot scheme. On this basis, the Bank made a
loan of 542 million in 1960 (247-IRN).
2.04         The experience from the pilot irrigation scheme brought out the
difficulties  involved in developing the project  area.   A Bank supervision
mission in 1966 reported that, due to land reform implementation, cooperation
between landowners and tenants had suffered.  As a result on-farm development
had affected only 2% and leveling only 7% of the project area.  Traditional
crop and cropping patterns still prevailed. KWPA's field trial farm had been
testing a wide range of new high value crops but few marketing studies and no
economic assessment had been made. The mission found that costs of irrigation
infrastructure and on-farm development were too high for the kind of crops
grown, due largely to over-design of the irrigation facilities.
2.05      Despite all these difficulties and problems, the supervision mission
also made encouraging findings.   In the first place, it found that the the
results in the pilot area were largely positive.  The gross value of produc-
tion (at constant prices) had risen about two and a half times above the
preproject level.  Although these results had fallen short of the targets set
in the appraisal report, they were considered as a good achievement in view of
the difficulties resulting from land reform and delays in the completion of
land levelling and the irrigation distribution system.   Secondly, KWPA had
created an excellent organization through which new services (improved farming
practices,  better  seeds,  chemical  fertilizers,  pesticides,  mechanization,
better irrigation methods, supervised credit) had been extended to a large
proportion of the primitive farm community within a short period of time.
2.06       The information and experience gained from Loan 247-I&N was in the
mission's view sufficient to form the basis for a feasibility study for the
next stage of the irrigation command.   It believed that traditional agricul-
ture could be made profitable by reducing investment costs per hectare through
a less elaborate design (smaller canals, less precise land leveling) and by
increasing benefits through the introduction of high value crops.



- 13 -
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
Consultants' and Borrower's Concept
3.01       At about the same time as the Bank supervision mission was conclud-
ing that the results gained in the pilot area showed that it was feasible
to improve traditional agriculture, the consultants were proposing (November
1966) that the project area should be developed through large scale mechanized
farming. In line with this concept, the consultants' draft feasibility
report dated May 1967 recommended that the project area should be developed
through large-scale farming, implying disposession, removal and resettlement
of local populations. To attract foreign investors and because of the lack of
proven crops, the consultants designed their irrigation system in such a way
as to allow complete flexibility for any cropping pattern.
3.02       It seems probable that the consultants used the experience from the
establishment and operation of the Haft Tapeh Sugar Plantation to the south of
the project area as a basis for their recommendation. If Haft Tapeh served as
a model it was not an appropriate one for two reasons:   In the first place,
Haft Tapeh was a plantation scheme based on monoculture. As such it could not
provide any guidance for multiple cropping ventures. Secondly, if Haft Tapeh
was a technical success demonstrated by its relatively high yields, it was not
at the time shown to be profitable. It could, therefore, not serve as conclu-
sive evidence for the potential success of profit-oriented agribusinesses.
Haft Tapeh must, nevertheless, have served as a model at   least as far as
social aspects are concerned:  the labor centers which were to be established
for farmers in the project area were probably modeled on plantation-type labor
camps.
3.03       Despite the lack of hard evidence pointing to a possible success of
large-scale mechanized farming, the Iranian Government accepted the consul-
tants' views and created, before and during project appraisal, the legal
framework for the implementation of these ideas. The Law for the Formation of
Farm Corporations 1/ (for local farmers) was passed on January 16, 1968 and
the Law for the Establishment of Companies (agribusinesses) for the Develop-
ment and Utilization of Lands Downstream of Dam (with domestic and/or foreign
capital), was approved on May 27, 1968.   Agribusiness units were to be not
less than 5,000 ha.  With these laws the Government set the stage for large-
scale mechanized farming in the project area.
1/   Joint stock companies to which all categories of farmers could turn over
their agricultural assets in exchange for shares (see para. 7.19).



- 14 -
Appraisal
3.04       By the end of 1966, on the basis of the experience gained in the
pilot irrigation scheme, the Bank was prepared to appraise a project for the
improvement of traditional agriculture. Bank missions were of the belief that
commercial firms would not be interested in developing the project area and
envisaged that traditional farming could be improved in line with the expe-
rience gained in the pilot irrigation area.   The Bank was disturbed by the
social and economic implications of agribusiness development which it believed
would lead to eventual removal and resettlement of a large part of the local
population.  In addition, experience had shown that the improvement of tradi-
tional agriculture did not require such a sophisticated irrigation system as
envisaged by the consultants and that investment costs per hectare could
therefore be reduced.  Finally, since it thought KWPA's management capability
to be limited, the Bank favored a two stage development of the project area
with the proposed Stage I loan being limited to the development of only
57,000 ha.
3.05       The third appraisal mission 1/ (April/May 1968) was undertaken to
persuade Government authorities to accept the Bank's view. On the face of it,
the mission was successful since the project agreed upon with the Iranian
Government was essentially a smallholder project in line with the experience
gained in the pilot irrigation area. Only 3,800 ha were set aside for eventual
commercial development through agribusiness firms.   On the other hand,  the
consultants/Government succeeded in convincing the Bank mission that the
proposed irrigation system was neither over-designed nor "gold plated".
Negotiations
3.06        The Iranian Government approached loan negotiations with a firm
determination backed by appropriate legislation (see para 3.03) to develop the
Khuzestan Area through large-scale mechanized farming.   It had also during
appraisal agreed with Bank missions to develop the same area through improved
traditional farming except for 3,800 ha to be set aside for agribusiness
ventures.   In hindsight, the Government's commitment to improved traditional
farming appears as a tactical move only.
3.07        Not surprisingly the major issue at negotiations, which began on
October 21, 1968, was the area to be set aside for large-scale farming.
Despite agreements on approved traditional farming reached during appr)ii  i
'i  r  lIranian officials and Bank staff,  the Iranian delegation requested
full flexibility to allocate to agribusiness  enterprises  any part ,,,  %,
a!:a up to the total of 57,000 ha--the then foreseen project area--if a
sufficient number of applicants came forward. Full flexibility in land
allocation was unacceptable to the Bank for two reasons: (1) the Bank did
1/   The first two missions were essentially concerned with soil and drainage
problems.



- 15 -
not believe that enough agribusinesses would sign up in time to begin farm-
ing operacions when irr.gation water was available; (2) the project had been
ipraised and presented as one for peasant farmers.   If it were now to be
.orned into a large-scale farming project, it would have to be redesigned,
r,osted and reappraised, leading to certain delays in processing the loan
and in implementing the project.  I/  The Bank's refusal of full flexibility
led the Iranian negotiators to adjourn negotiations on November 5, 1968.
3.08       A compromise, putting a limit of 20,300 ha on the land to be allo-
cated to agribusinesses, was finally agreed upon on January 28, 1969.  Under
this compromise no agreement with an agribusiness firm was to be made without
prior consultation with the Bank on the terms and conditions of the proposals.
Safecuards were added to ensure that the plans for the utilization of land
would be ready by the time water became available.   In addition, areas ini-
tially allocated to agribusiness were to revert to improved traditional
agriculture should firm agribusiness proposals not materialize by specific
cut-off dates. Finally, after about one year (by mid 1970), the progress made
and the prospects for further agribusiness development were to be reviewed by
the Borrower and the Bank, and the arrangements for agribusinesses would
be amended if warranted.
The Project
3.09       The project approved by the Bank (Loan 594-IPI) on Uiarch 18, 1969,
covered 57,000 ha. It consisted of the construction of irrigation and drain-
age facilities on about 37,000 ha of newly irrigated lands and of on-farm
development on both this area and on the 20,000 ha already under irrigation
in the pilot irrigation area.  Of this 20,300 ha could be developed by agri-
business and 36,700 ha by traditional agriculture. It included procurement of
operation and maintenance equipment, a credit program for the purchase of farm
machinery  by  indigenous  farmers,  establishment  of  supporting  agricultural
services, and the investigation of agricultural credit requirements and
marketing arrangements. (Details are described in Annex 1.) The project also
included the construction of control gates, a reregulating dam, a diversion
dam and the West Main canal.   Contracts for the construction of the latter
items had already been awarded in 1967 without recourse to ICB, so they were
not eligible for financing under the loan.  Since an expansion of the project
area beyond the proposed 57,000 ha (Stage I) would have seriously overburdened
KUPA's organizational and managerial capacity,   the Government and the Bank
agreed that the development of Stage II would have to wait until it was
justified in the light of the progress made under Stage I.
1/  Memiorandum to Loan Committee of 3/5/69.



- 16 -
IV.  CHAiGE OF DEVELOPMENT PATTERN
Smallholder Agriculture versus Large Scale MIechanized Farming-Extension
of Agribusiness Area
4.01       The history of project implementation shows how the Borrower suc-
ceeded in persuading the Bank that large scale mechanized farming--commercial
and cooperative--should be used in the entire project area and how, as a
result, the Bank progressively moved away from smallholder development.
'While the loan documents reflect the Bank's views on agricultural development
the Borrower did not long adhere to them. Only a few weeks after the loan had
been approved, it informed the Bank that the letters of intent had been signed
with agribusinesses for more than 55,000 ha (39,000 ha in Stage I and 16,000
ha in Stage II lands) and that 17,000 ha had been allocated to farm corpora-
tions.
4.02        Since this was not in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement, a supervision mission which visited Iran in November 1969 recom-
mended suspension of disbursements until the Borrower had explained and the
Bank accepted the proposed changes. Bank management did not adopt this
recommendation for reasons not specified within the available files. 1/ After
a project review mission had visited the project area in May 1970, a new
agreement was reached and formalized in the supplemental letter dated M'ay 10,
1971. The Bank accepted the extension of the agribusiness area from 20,300 ha
to 45,000 ha but insisted that 10,000 ha should be reserved for improved
traditional farming and 2,000 ha for Farm Corporations  (see Annex 8).   The
Borrower agreed not to proceed with the development of Farm Corporations
unless the Bank had approved the schedule of development.
Extension of Farm Corporation Areas
4.03       After having obtained the extension of the agribusiness areas, the
Borrower set out to increase the Farm Corporation areas from 2,000 to 12,000
ha contrary to the supplemental letter of May 10, 1971.  This was brought to
the Bank's attention for the first time in June 1972 during the abortive loan
negotiations for the Stage II project, but it was only in early 1973 that a
supervision mission of the Stage I project took account of the ongoing Farm
Corporation development and again recommended suspension or cancellation of
the loan.   Following assurances from senior Government officials,  the Bank
requested the Borrower instead to write to the Bank describing and justifying
what it now planned to do and suggesting what changes should be made to the
letter of May  10,  1971.  2/   The Government informed the Bank formally on
September 15, 1973 that it had determined that it would serve farmers in the
1/    The loan amount was reduced later on at the Borrower's request  (see
para. 5.05).
2/    The loan amount was, however, reduced twice at the Borrower's request
(see paras. 5.05 and Annex 4).



- 17 -
project area more expeditiously through Farm Corporations rather than through
improved traditional farming and, for that reason, had allocated 12,000 ha of
the land in the Stage I project area to Farm Corporations. The Bank consulted
its Agricultural and Rural Development Advisory Mission (ARDAM) 1/ in Iran on
the response to be given.  ARDAM was of the view that Farm Corporations were
preferable to agribusiness ventures since they did not involve removal and
resettlement of the rural population and that they deserved a chance to prove
their advantages over agribusinesses.   In a letter of April 3, 1974 to the
Borrower, the Bank agreed to the area allocation to Farm Corporations within
the Stage I project area.
Meaning for the Bank
4.04        The change of the Stage I project from a smallholder development
project into a large scale mechanized farming project, actively sought by the
Borrower and its consultants and finally conceded by the Bank, amounted to a
highly significant change in the project description contained in the loan
documents. 2/ It made irrelevant essential provisions in the project descrip-
tion (Schedule 3 of Loan Agreement) explicitly designed to meet the needs of
the small traditional farmer on the basis of the experience gained in the
original pilot irrigation scheme. These provisions included the need for (1)
on-farm  development;  (2)  agricultural  credit  services  to farmers  for  the
purchase of agricultural equipment; (3) training for farmers; (4) marketing
and agricultural credit studies; (5) an agricultural service department within
KWPA; and (6) land redistribution, consolidation and settlement programs.
With its letter of April 3, 1974 the Bank conceded in effect that its efforts
to influence the outcome of agricultural development in the project area in a
certain manner had not succeeded.   From then on,  the Bank's efforts were
limited to ensuring an orderly implementation of irrigation infrastructure
facilities.   It should be noted in this context that following the October
1973 oil price increases and the resulting quantum jump in revenues in Iran,
many development projects proceeded with focus only on physical targets.
1/   ARDAM was established on March 1, 1973, in Iran at the specific request
of the highest levels of Government, for advice on agricultural develop-
ment policy.
2/    Relevant sections in the Loan Agreement appear to leave the Borrower
with great freedom to increase the area under agribusinesses.   While
Section 5.14 of the Loan Agreement states "NTo part of the Project shall
be developed by vertically integrated commercial enterprises (agri-
businesses) except to the extent that such development .... is consistent
with the obligation of the Borrower under Section 5.01(a);" Section 5.01
(a) merely says that "The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural,
engineering, economic and financial policies and practices."



- 18 -
V. PHYSICAL IMIPLDIENTATION
5.01       Loan 594-IRN was declared effective on August 8, 1969, three weeks
after the original date and after conditions for appointment of consultants
had been met.
Implementation Schedule
5.02       Project works were built through four civil works contracts none of
which were carried out on schedule (see Annex 2) but only the delays in
contract GD 107 resulted in cost overruns.   Contract GD 107, which covered
about 70% of the project area, had been awarded with a delay of 15 months to
an Iranian contractor at a bid price 20% below the engineer's estimate.  The
contractor carried out in the initial two years some 70% of the contracted
work, but made very little progress between 1973 and 1976 due to financial
difficulties which stemmed from national and international cost inflation.
Since the contract was a fixed price contract, time-consuming Government
clearances had to be obtained before a contract supplement covering price
increases was  approved  in June  1976.   Nevertheless,  the contract  and the
project infrastructure were completed in June 1977, two and a half years
behind schedule and after three postponements of the closing date.   Project
works were built to meet high standards in line with appraisal estimates.
5.03       Major works built under the project are the reregulating dam,
the diversion dam and networks of canals, roads and drains with all auxiliary
works. The reregulating dam is a concrete structure 20 m high and 136 m long
with a capacity of approximately 14 million m3 capacity.   The diversion dam
has a 394 m uncontrolled spillway of typical ogee section, 4 m high with
radial gated sluiceways and canal headworks on the right and left banks. The
other facilities consist of 96 km of main and secondary canals, 251 km of
laterals, 33 km of asphalt road with a bridge over the Dez river, 166 km of
gravel roads and 232 km of drains.  The major auxiliary works constructed are
742 culverts, 111 check structures, 49 drop structures, 54 siphons, 31 check
siphons and some 2,250 turnouts.   Three pumping stations including 20 units
with a total capacity of 7.2 m3 per second were built for areas not served by
gravity irrigation.
Project Costs
5.04      The actual costs converted to US$ equivalent at the rate of exchange
prevailing during each year of implementation are compared in Annex 3 to costs
estimated at appraisal stage.   On an overall basis the actual costs rose by
4% from the original estimate of US$ 74.30 million to US$ 77.00 million.
This comparison, however, does not reflect the true picture since a greater
part of the cost overrun on Categories I and III was offset by savings result-
ing from Categories II, V and VII.   If only comparable categories are com-
pared,  the cost increase was about 22%.   The combined Categories I and III
experienced a cost overrun of about 25% or US$10.78 million over the original
estimate, about 80%o of which is due to an increase in the cost of GD 107 as a
result of inflation.   If contract GD  107 had been carried out within the



- 19 -
appraisal time schedule, it is likely that the actual costs would have re-
mained within the limits of the appraisal cost estimate with a level of
contingencies of 10% on contract GD 102 and 20% on all other works. Given the
above cost overruns the cost of construction of infrastructure facilities per
hectare works out to a seemingly reasonable US$ 1,300.   It compares to an
estimated cost of about US$650 per hectare for the pilot irrigation scheme.
Since this was completed seven years earlier, a period which had seen a
considerable inflation in costs (again especially after October 1973), it can
be concluded that the capital costs of the project were not excessive, al-
though the Bank's endeavor to persuade the Government to simplify the irriga-
tion design so as to reduce costs was not very successful.
Revision in Loan Proceeds
5.05        The loan amount was reduced twice at the Borrower's request from
US$30 million to US$ 23 million  (see Annex 4).   Some revision, if not the
total amount, was anticipated as early as loan negotiations when the intention
of the Borrower to introduce agribusiness ventures in the project area became
clear. Since agribusiness firms did not wish to use international competitive
bidding for land leveling contracts and did not qualify for machinery loans,
the need for funds under Categories I and II decreased.  Finally, in October
1976, Category VI funds were reallocated to Category IV to meet increased
costs of consulting services.
Procurement
5.06       Procurement was arranged in accordance with the Bank procedures for
international competitive bidding.   The response for civil works contracts
from prequalified contractors was competitive. Civil works contractors
reportedly ran into difficulties in obtaining import permits for materials or
equipment manufactured and assembled in Iran.  As contract documents did not
mention such restrictions, the Bank pointed out this anomaly and requested the
Borrower to remedy the situation, and made it clear that any claims arising
from these restrictions would not be eligible for reimbursement.   O&M equip-
ment was mostly supplied through local agents of foreign manufacturers.  The
total value of the contracts, exclusive of O&M equipment was US$45.8 million.
Disbursements
5.07       The delay in project completion and the reduction in the total loan
amount led to delays in disbursement of the remaining loan funds (see Annex
5).    Further withdrawal delays were due to financial arrangements between
KWPA and its contractors.   KVYPA had to pay its contractors within 30 days
after presentation of monthly bills.   The payment period was too short to
obtain payment from the Bank and KWPA had to prefinance the contractors'
claims. Since local funds could be made available to this effect, KWiPA
did not feel pressed to turn to the Bank for reimbursement.   In fact, from
1974 onward, KWPA neglected to submit withdrawal applications for some minor
contracts, despite the Bank's frequent reminders.



- 20 -
Construction Supervision
5.08        The consultants' designs are generally acceptable except for the
delivery capacity of the distribution system.  Although a subject of repeated
discussion from the earliest days, the actual system as finally implemented
remained in the Bank's view excessively complex. It has become a major cause
of the high maintenance costs of the project. The consultants' performance in
construction supervision is commendable. They prepared an excellent operation
and maintenance manual but did not make a sufficient attempt to train local
personnel in understanding the need for and in carrying out operation and
maintenance works.    Consultant's  staff worked as an integral part of the
overall project team and maintained good relations with local staff.
Accounting, Auditing, Reporting
5.09        The Borrower was to provide to the Bank financial, audit and
quarterly progress reports.  The financial reports were to report the results
of a cost accounting system the objectives of which had not been specified in
the appraisal report.  KWFA furnished from March 1970 to August 1973 ten such
reports covering from one to six months. Bank staff did not succeed in
extracting useful information from these reports which were thought to dup-
licate annual audit  reports  and quarterly  progress  reports.    KWPA ceased
supplying financial reports in 1973.
5.10        KWPA's annual audit reports were to be supplied to the Bank six
months after the close of a fiscal year but they usually arrived one to two
years later.   Bank staff did not seem to have attached much importance to
these reports besides acknowledging their receipt.  The only problems raised
by the Bank concerned their late arrival and the acceptability of the auditors.
The Bank finally accepted KWPA's auditor.
5.11         KWPA furnished  31 quarterly progress reports with considerable
delays between October 1, 1969 and June 21, 1977.  Since KWPA's 1969 charter
limited its activities to implementation of water and power projects, KUWA
ceased progressively all other activities which it was authorized to pursue
under its 1960 charter.   As a result, KWPA's reporting was limited to first
hand information on engineering works and to second hand information on
agribusiness firms and research.   The reporting on agribusiness development
and research was limited in scope and its reporting on research was not
meaningful.  Plonthly cabled reports on progress of works under supplement No.
1 to contract GD 107 (para 5.02) failed to achieve their objectives as the
bill of quantities did not reflect real quantities which made a true com-
parison impossible.
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANTAGEifENT
KWPA's Role in the Loan Documents
6.01       The role intended for KWPA is surrounded by uncertainties.   While
the appraisal report states that KWPA would be responsible for implementing



- 21 -
all project activities, the loan agreement only refers to "KWPA and all other
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out and operation of the
project".   The inconsistency in drafting was certainly not helpful for the
supervisior missions later confronted with a multiplicity of agencies.   It
became, however, of minor significance in comparison with a new problem which
had not been foreseen at appraisal.
Change of KZPA's Charter
6.02       Both the appraisal report and the loan agreement define KWPA as an
agency of the Ministry of Water and Power organized and operating under its
charter enacted in 1960. This statement was no longer correct when the
Board approved the loan on March 18, 1969. The Iranian Government had adopted
a new Charter for KTPA a day earlier.   There is no evidence to suggest that
the Bank was made aware of this fact before the loan was signed on April 18,
1969, on the basis of the assumption that KWPA's Charter of 1960 was still in
force.   The Bank received a copy of the new charter only in June and any
comments that may have been made are not recorded.
6.03       The change of KWPA's Charter raises several issues.   Section 6.02
(b) of the Loan Agreement specifies that the charter, regulations and other
legal texts governing the organization, management or operation of KWPA cannot
be amended, repealed, supplemented or otherwise modified without prior consul-
tation with the Bank.  Since the change in the charter had occured before the
Loan Agreement had been approved by the Board, it probably cannot be con-
sidered as a violation of the proposed agreement. Nevertheless, the fact that
the Bank was not informed of the impending change led to severe misunder-
standings which were to encumber subsequent project implementation.   Further-
more, it would appear that the legal opinion required as a condition of
effectiveness may have been at fault in not pointing out the changed situatior.
6.04      A second issue relates to the change in KWPA's role as a development
agency brought about by the 1969 Charter. Originally the 1960 Charter set up
KWPA as a regional development agency, at first under the Plan Organization
and then under the Ministry of Water and Power, with overall responsibility
for planning and developing agricultural and power projects in Khuzestan
Province.   One of KWPA's important functions was to promote the adoption of
modern farming practices by owners and farmers including the use of farm
machinery, application of chemical fertilizer, selection of cropping patterns,
use of improved seeds and stabilization of land tenure. Since KWPA had
performed commendably during the implementation of the pilot irrigation
scheme, the Stage I project financed by Loan 594-IRN had been prepared on the
assumption that KnPA would continue to operate along the same lines.   The
Bank's evaluation of KWPA's managerial and administrative capacity had also
been an important factor in the limitation of the project area to 57,000
ha.
6.05       KWPA's 1969 Charter represents a radical departure from the earlier
set-up.   It converted KWPA into a joint stock company with legal personality
and financial  independence,  to be operated on commercial principles.   The
capital would belong to the Government represented by the Minister of Water



- 22 -
and Power. The objective was to achieve agricultural and industrial develop-
ment through the establishment of subsidiary companies or partnerships and
investments in other organizations and companies. The 1969 Charter refers in
particular to the Law for the Establishment of Companies (agribusiness) for
the Development and Utilization of Lands Downstream of Dams.
6.06        KWPA's 1969 Charter draws its significance from the fact that it
completes the legal framework for the promotion of large-scale mechanized
farming which had been initiated in 1968 with the laws for the establishment
of farm corporations and agribusiness companies (see para 3.03). At the same
time, it took KWPA out of the business of providing basic services for the
development of small farmer agriculture.   In particular,  it ignored all the
experience  laboriously  gained in the pilot  irrigation scheme.   The set of
basic project premises ceased to exist at the very moment the loan was approv-
ed by the Bank.
Effect of the Change in KWPA's Charter on Project Implementation
6.07       The fact that the significance of the 1969 Charter was never recog-
nized kept the Bank from understanding during project implementation the
rationale behind KWPA's efforts to stop exercising its responsibilities for
the development of smallholder agriculture.  In line with its new Charter KP,TA
divested itself of its agricultural services department which had been built
up over the previous nine years. The Iranian Government, thereby, eradicated
a major institution building effort.
6.08        From the outset supervision missions noticed the multiplicity of
executing agencies involved in project implementation and the transfer of
responsibilities to various technical ministries which took place without
the Bank being informed much less consulted before the event.  The confusion
was increased by the fact that some ministries redelegated part of their
responsibilities temporarily to KWPA while other ministries were abolished
and new ones were created.
6.09         At one time or another the Mlinistries and agencies involved in
carrying out the project  included:   M'inistry of Water and Power, M1inistry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural Affairs, Ministry of
Agricultural Products and Consumer Goods, Agricultural Development Bank of
Iran and others.   Efforts at coordination amongst these were shortlived and
ineffective.   KWPA ended up with the responsibility for the construction of
the irrigation infrastructure and its operation and maintenance. The 'Ministry
cf Agriculture was responsible for Farm Corporations and traditional farmers
(although theoretically they had no place left in the project area); the
Agricultural Development Bank of Iran became an increasingly important if
unwilling source of funds for agribusiness firms (see para 7.09).
Operation and 'Maintenance
6.10        KWPA's operation and maintenance organization was set up in line
with the appraisal report.   It has at present enough manpower and equipment
to achieve a high standard of maintenance and operational efficiency.  But in



- 23 -
reality, the system was neither well maintained nor well operated and it was
far from meeting the standards envisaged at appraisal.  The completion report
mission found that the operation and maintenance costs per hectare was US$102
in 1977 dollars compared with an appraisal estimate of US$15 in 1969 dollars.
This is at least three times as high as the appraisal estimate in constant
dollars.   The increase was due to the fast rise in prices of materials,
equipment and wages, and to disregard for manpower and equipment efficiency by
KWPA.  Training programs for managers and ditchriders, operators and mechanics
have been quite inadequate. The consultants have recently made new proposals
for restructuring operation and maintenance arrangements in an effort to
improve this situation.
VII. ECONOL!IC AiD SOCIAL IMPACT
Objectives
7.01        The project's objectives were to increase production through the
introduction of modern agricultural practices, to expand cropped areas,
to raise yields of improved traditional crops and to introduce new crops such
as alfalfa, pasture, edible legumes, sugarbeets and fruits, and finally to
expand and improve livestock and dairy production.   Farm family incomes were
expected to increase from US$1,000 annually pre-project to US$3,300 at full
development.   Large-scale mechanized farming through agribusiness, if imple-
mented, was not expected to involve any change in objectives, only to enable
these objectives to be reached earlier. Additional advantages of agribusiness
were expected to be the inflow of foreign capital, the attraction of Iranian
private capital into agricultural ventures, the introduction of modern agri-
cultural techniques and know-how, and the development of an agricultural
processing industry.  The Bank agreed in 1972 that the development of irriga-
tion farming through agribusiness was an experiment, that the details of the
Government's implementation of land reform should not be questioned, and that
the project provided work to the grossly underemployed labor force.   In the
Bank's view, the advantages outweighed the disadvantages of curtailing the
area to be devoted to traditional farming.
Development of the Project Area
7.02       The anticipated fast development of the project area through agri-
business did not take place (see Annex 6).   In fact, in terms of allocated
area, even by 1978, agribusiness had only reached a cropping intensity of 41%,
compared with a pre-project intensity of 60% and an anticipated intensity of
122% for smallholder agriculture. These results are particularly poor in view
of an irrigation system designed for a summer cropping intensity of 90%.



- 24 -
Stage I and Stage II Cropping Patterns
(in ha)
Project
Design
at full          Actual
Crops                      Preproject         Development        1978 /I
Perennial
Fodder                               -              16,570           2,670
Fruits                              260              4 490           1.090
Subtotal                            260             21,060           3,760
Winter
Grains                           34,290             22,150          16,160
Sugarbeets                           -               8,010           4,040
Others                            3_630             17,940           1.710
Subtotal                         37,920             48,100          21,910
Summer
Rice                              6 070              6,000              50
Corn                                 -               8,010           1.430
Cotton                                               7,260             390
Joint Ventures                       -                  -            5,070
Others                            6,460             12,140             260
Subtotal                         12,530             33,410           7,200
Total Cropped Area                  50,710            102,570          32,870
Project Area                        84,000             84,000          81,000
/1   Agribusiness and Farm Corporations.
7.03       At present 82,000 ha in Stage I and Stage II are irrigable but the
cropped area in winter has never exceeded 26,000 ha. less than 32% of the
total. The gap between the irrigable and the cultivated area is such that the
investment  in infrastructure has  turned  out to be uneconomic.   The major
constraint on agricultural development proved to be land leveling for which
the Bank had provided funds, on the basis of the experience gained in the
pilot irrigation scheme. Because agribusiness firms proposed to finance land
leveling from their own resources, in order to achieve the required degree
of precision, funds provided under the loan for this purpose were cancelled.
As it turned out, the agribusinesses' refusal to have Bank funds used for land
leveling was probably one of their major mistakes since it was the soaring
cost of land development that was one of the decisive factors contributing to
their failure.
7.04       The agribusinesses' low overall cropping intensity is due to a low
summer cropping intensity of about 10t while water availability would allow a



- 25 -
90% cropping intensity.  The agribusiness performance is actually even poorer
than suggested by these figures since the summer cropping intensity is only
reached  through  the extensive  use of joint ventures.   Joint ventures are
arrangements whereby an agribusiness firm typically leases land to an iimi-
grant farmer for an annual rental of Rls 1,500/ha while its own rental obli-
gations to KWPA are only Rls 150/ha.  Such farmers usually grow a summer crop
of melons and cucumbers.   These arrangements, which cover 73% of the cropped
areas in summer, show that smallholder agriculture is, at least in summer,
more effective than LMF and certainly less capital intensive although the
farmers do not benefit from any technical support.  As a result, their agri-
cultural practices lead to a rapid soil deterioration.
Traditional and High Value Crops
7.05        Except for sugarbeets and fruit agribusiness firms have not suc-
ceeded in reaching, even in 1978, area objectives which were originally set
for smallholder agriculture.   The profitability of sugarbeet cultivation is
reduced due to the long distance haulage to the sugarbeet factory at Ahwaz.
It will improve when the sugarbeet factory in the project area will come on
stream hopefully in 1981.   It should be borne in mind, however,  that the
sugarbeet factory under construction results from Government and not agri-
business initiatives. Wheat, an extensive low value crop, still occupies more
than 50% of the allocated area compared with 66% in the pre-project situation.
The results achieved do not demonstrate the superiority of agribusiness over
smalLholder agriculture.
7.06        Agribusiness does not fare any better in yield comparisons.   The
following Table shows that typical agribusiness yields (Iran Shellcott Co.)
in 1977, except for sugarbeets and wheat, are on the average 50% lower than
pre-project yields and much lower than anticipated smallholder yields and
yields at the Safiabad Research Station.   These results are also generally
in line with average figures for all agribusiness firms provided by ARDAM.



- 26 -
Yields in the Project Area
(tons/ha)
Average /5
Safiabad /3    Iran            Agri-
Published    Shellcott /3  business
Yield         Yields        Results
Crov        1968 /1      Projected /2        1966-75     1976       1977        1975-76
Alfalfa     12.5             15.0              9-14       4.00      8.00           3.5
Cotton       2.2              2.8              4.60       0.70      1.10
Corn         3.3              4.0              5.40        -        2.20
Sorghum       -                -               5.30       2.20      not
harves-
ted
Sugarbeet  35.0              50.0            55-60 /4  19.00   38 /4             38.9
Wheat        1.1              3.5              3.71       2.18   2.00              2.3
/1  Consultant's Feasibility report, September 1968.
/2 Appraisal Report.
/3 Booker Agriculture International Limited, London, 1977.
/4 Sugar content at Safiabad reported at 16% and Iran Shellcott
at 12.8% in 1978.
/5 A Report on a Pilot Economic Survey, ARDAM, 1976.
Capital Flows
7.07       The anticipation of large private capital inflows through agribusi-
ness firms was not borne out by experience.   The main reason appears to be
that agribusiness firms were bent on reducing their risks by limiting their
equity  participation  and  by  working  essentially  with  loan  capital.   They
typically tried to operate with an equity/loan ratio of 1:3, an anticipated
payback period of five years for equity, and a rate of return of 50% for a
project life of 10 years.  These firms saw their main objective as making a
profit.  Land development was regarded as a secondary objective.  The general
pattern was to develop an initial area which they hoped would provide the
profits  to develop  the remainder over a period of years.  This approach was
bound to bring agribusiness firms into conflict with Government authorities
which had agreed with the Bank on a fast rate of land development to ensure
that the project remained economically viable.
7.08      Agribusiness firms were probably sufficiently capitalized to achieve
their profit objective but they were certainly under-capitalized for the kind



- 27 -
of objective the Government had in mind for them. The Government's insistence
on its land develooment objectives was the main cause, besides cost inflation,
for the financial difficulties experienced by agribusiness firms. They failed
to make a profit on the lands that had been cleared and, pressed by the
Government to invest increasing sums in land leveling, their financial con-
dition went from bad to worse.   Starting from 1973 Government had no choice
but to begin taking over the firms one by one and to look after financing as
well as management.
7.09      Private Iranian capital only participated on a small scale in equity
capital. When the agribusiness firms' financial problems occured they did not
turn to Iranian private interests but applied for public funds both internal
and external.  1/   To meet this need the Government decided to supply the
required funds -- equity and loan capital -- through the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Iran.  A proportion of these funds, albeit a small one, derived
from agricultural credit loans from the World Bank (Loans 662-IRN, 821-IRN).
2/  None of the third loan to ADBI (1046-IRX) has been used for the Khuzestan
agribusinesses. As a result of these arrangements, the Bank directly financed
both irrigation infrastructure and on-farm development for private firms.  To
appreciate these arrangements, it should be borne in mind that the Bank had
refused to finance on-farm development for agribusiness firms under loan
594-IRN because the firms did not wish to use international competitive
bidding procedures for awarding contracts. The agribusiness firms then
received funds from the Bank through ADBI without having to go through ICB
procedures.   ADBI has so far provided to agribusinesses US$38 million or 63%
of their total loan and equity capital.   This heavy involvement represents a
major threat to ADBI's capital structure, overtaxes its management capability
and distracts it from an orderly institutional build-up all of which have been
pointed out by the Bank to the Government and ADBI.
Appropriate Technologv
7.10        Large-scale mechanized farming through agribusiness was proposed
in 1966 by the consultants and accepted by the Minister of Water and Power.
The concept was thus born at a moment when experiments in the pilot irrigation
scheme had shown that smallholder agriculture was viable.   Both the Govern-
ments and its consultants, however, believed that highly sophisticated large-
scale mechanized farming was superior to smallholder agriculture because it
1/   In 1972 the International Finance Corporation approved a loan of US$1.25
million to one of the agribusiness although it never used it as it was
not capable of meeting conditions of effectiveness.
2/    Out of a total of Rls 1.9 billion (about US$ 270 m) loaned by ADBI to
agribusiness as of mid-1978, about 10% was derived from the Uorld Bank
loans.



- 28 -
promised economies of scale.  This latter contention was thoroughly disproved
by experience in the project area over the coming years.  The very size and
sophistication of the operation, especially the massive impact of this type of
farming on a traditional village society and the technological leap that is
represented, were perhaps its major drawback.
7.11      The large-scale involvement of agribusiness required for its success
a responsive social, economic, financial and administrative environment
capable of providing those goods and services without which a large modern
organization cannot function.  The lack of such an environment was compounded
by diverging agribusiness and Government objectives, profit on the one side
and land development on the other side.   Under these circumstances, large-
scale mechanized farming through foreign-owned firms probably did not stand a
chance of success.   No such conflict of interest would have existed between
smallholder agriculture and KWPA, whose capability of providing the necessary
goods and services to smallholders had been built up since 1960.
7.12      Agribusiness promoters initiated their operations on the wrong
premises by failing from the start to appreciate locally available data.  The
first misconception was perhaps the idea that climatic conditions in Khuzestan
and California were basically comparable. In Khuzestan summers are hotter and
winters are colder, so cold indeed as to make double cropping hazardous, an
important fact when an irrigation system is based on intensive winter and
summer cropping.   Similarly, the significance of available research data was
misconstrued.   The Safiabad Research Station, which had been developed under
the original Dez Multipurpose Project, had made field trials of high value
crops including beans, tomatoes, peas, onions and cotton. They had shown that
these crops could be grown in the Khuzestan area and achieve high yields. The
results had been reached on small plots in the project area and were probably
adequate as guidelines  for smallholder agriculture.   Consultants for agri-
business used these results and assumed, on the basis of their Californian
experience, that they also held true for large-scale commercial farming.
Subsequent events showed this basic assumption to be a fallacy, at least on
the basis of technology then available.
7.13       Labor shortages, which were to place severe constraints on mechan-
ized farming, were the direct results of its introduction. Land allocation to
agribusiness required the destruction of the traditional way of life and
employment opportunities.   The slow start-up of agribusiness did not provide
sufficient alternative jobs when they were needed. The resulting labor
surplus was absorbed by a booming urban economy.   When agribusiness finally
started requiring labor in significant amounts, the available labor force was
not numerous enough for the large-scale cultivation of labor intensive high
value crops.
7.14       The labor shortage and accompanying higher wage rates made further
mechanization  even more  tempting.    The  limits  of mechanization,  however,
appeared rapidly.  The most important constraints appeared in the procurement
of equipment and spares, the delays involved, the lack of qualified operators
and mechanics, and in inadequacy of the machinery.   These factors introduced
a high degree of inflexibility in the use of machinery, and raised costs.



- 29 -
''echanization turned out to be an unwieldy and inadequate tool.   To be suc-
cessful it had to operate at a much higher technological level than small-
holder agriculture.   This proved to be impossible in the circumstances
prevailing in Iran at the time.
7.15      Pest and weed control were other problems which could not be managed
on the scale at which they occurred.  While experimental plots continued to
show many crops to be agronomically feasible, large scale production was
generally  disappointing.    The  limited  absorptive  capacity  of markets was
another  constraint.    The  introduction  of modern marketing  techniques was
supposed to be one of the main advantages which agribusiness firms could have
shared with small farmers, in particular  through "contract farming".   The
agribusiness firms had been expected to eliminate or at least to circumvent
traditional middlemen by establishing downstream processing facilities and
capturing excessive commercial margins for the producer.  Except for a cotton
ginnery wnich will probably have to be abandoned for lack of seed cotton,
agribusnesses have not caused the establishment of downstream linkages.   The
lack of vertical integration probably eliainated one of the most important
justifications  for their  existence.   A sugarbeet  factory,  which  is under
construction in the project area, has not resulted from agribusiness initia-
tives but from bilateral aid.   It can serve smallholders as well as agri-
businesses.
7.16       The various diseconomies of scale suggest that agribusiness -- big
farms without downstream linkages -- are less profitable than family farms. A
report prepared by ARDAM - the Bank's advisory mission in Iran 1/ - tentative-
ly concluded that the most important variable determining productivity and
profitability on farms with approximately similar resource endowment is the
extent of  family  labor  involvement.   It also concluded that overall pro-
ductivity and profitability was substantially higher on a 2,500 ha commercial
farm than on any of the bigger Khuzestan agribusinesses, largely due to the
commercial farm's lower overhead costs.  Agribusiness firms on the other hand
have heavy overhead cost because of the large number of administrative per-
sonnel they employ.   Their gross margins on crop sales are too low to cover
these.  W4hile studies at the Safiabad Research Station show positive gross
margins for most crops, studies made by BAI 2/ of the Iran Shellcott cost
structure demonstrate that, except for wheat and sugarbeet, 3/ hardly any crop
shows a positive gross margin at anticipated yields.
1/    Report on a pilot economic survey of farming in two ostans of Iran,
July 1976, Agricultural and Rural Development Advisory Mission (ARDAM),
prepared for ADBI.
2/    Booker Agriculture International, Shellcott Ten Year Development Plan,
London, 1977.
3/   Government policy of stabilizing output prices for wheat, corn and
sugarbeet plus rapidly increasing prices for inputs has also been a
contributory factor to low gross margins but does not affect the rela-
tive profitability of agribusinesses and other commercial farms.



- 30 -
7.17      The Ministry of Agriculture, ADBI and KWPA officials have recognized
the failure of commercial large-scale mechanized farming. They are now
seeking alternative ways of farming the project area.  One suggestion is that
the accumulated losses should be covered through Government subsidies and that
the agribusinesses should be broken up and farmed in small units.  Officials
point out that Farm Corporations have been successful because Government has
kept them afloat through liberal public financing and that European as well as
US agriculture is successful because it is subsidized.  This may be true but
it does not follow that large-scale mechanization rather than improved tradi-
tional smallholder agriculture should be supported. It would seem that
improved traditional agriculture which does not carry high overhead costs
was, under these circumstances, a more cost efficient proposition and a more
appropriate technology than other types of farming.
Farm Corporations
7.18      The argument that subsidies are necessary and sufficient to develop
agriculture is partly based on the Government's experience with the Haft Tapeh
Sugar Plantation (see para 3.02) and partly on experience with Farm Corpora-
tions which it considers to be a success (see Annex 8).  As of December 1977,
the Government had spent US$2,900 per Farm Corporation shareholder in loans
and grants.  Except for financial problems, which are manageable as a result
of large Government subsidies, Farm Corporations appear to be plagued with
size and mechanization related problems similar to those experienced by
agribusiness firms.   In addition, they suffer from specific social problems
such as lack of interest of farmers as a result of forced collectivization and
inexperienced management. Experience with Farm Corporations shows that
subsidies are helpful in keeping alive enterprises which might founder other-
wise. It does not indicate that initial subsidies are sufficient to make Farm
Corporation ultimately self-reliant and economically viable.
DisDlacement and Resettlement of Farmers
7.19       The Bank counted the loss by indigenous farmers of the social
benefits of the land reform program and the displacement of villagers as one
of the major disadvantages of agribusiness development.  This point had been
the Bank's constant preoccupation since it had learnt in 1967 of the Govern-
ment's intention of promoting large-scale farming.
7.20        Displacement of farmers in the 1960s came after the Government's
land reform had successfully broken up a feudal land tenure structure and
created a new class of owners or prospective owners of small farms.   Its
results had been entirely positive as shown by investigations in other parts
of the project area untouched by large-scale farming. The smallholder project
conceived by the Bank provided all the required technical, agricultural,
financial and administrative back-up for the land reform to make the Khuzestan
area an agricultural success without sudden disruption of the social fabric.
The Government's decision to introduce large-scale farming -- agribusinesses
and Farm Corporations -  reversed this development.   It subjected recently
promoted individual small landowners to a process of proletarianization



- 31 -
through the agribusiness firms and collectivization through the Farm Corpora-
tions.   The 3ank, unable to influence the detail of these policies presented
as part of the Covernment's land reform policies, took an active interest in
resettlemenc.
7.21         Resectlement involved the expropriation against compensation of
land from land reform beneficiaries, the destruction of their villages,
and construction after long delays of new villages, and resettlement.   Data
on such matters as the employment situation before and after resettlement, the
amounts of compensation paid, number of people   concerned,  their employment
during a transitional period, size of the house lots assigned to new settlers
are virtually non-existent.
7.22        The effect of large-scale farming on employment is of particular
concern. One of the premises of project preparation had been that traditional
agriculture was plagued by gross underemployment.   In-depth investigations 1/
in areas untouched by large-scale farming suggest, however, that improved
traditional agriculture even after land reform might have ensured full employ-
ment for both landowners and landless laborers and might not have led to
outmigration in the short term.
7.23       Indications for the areas affected by large-scale farming, however,
suggest that substantial emigration and loss of employment have occured.
Bank files indicate that 800 families lived up to the early 1970s on the land
allocated to Iran Shellcott Company (ISC). In 1978, however, ISC had only 200
to 250 permanent laborers representing 25 to 30% of the original population.
ISC management does not consider these workers to be an asset and its policy
is to further reduce their number by increasing the degree of mechanization.
The very concept of year round employment is in doubt when summer cropping
covers less than 10 percent of the allocated area  (see para 7.04).   Other
fragmentary evidence appears to confirm the order of magnitude of loss of
employment and emigration.   Originally, it was thought necessary to build 12
labor c!nters for a total of 6,000 families.   At the end of 1976 only five
labor centers with 1,732 houses had been built and 1,427 families had moved
in.  As it stands now, only about 30% of the original land-owning population
appears to be needed as a permanent labor force.
7.24       The figures quoted above do not give any idea of the social costs
involved in the destruction of the traditional villages, removal of population,
resettlement in unfamiliar surroundings, emigration, unemployment and new
employment in urban centers. It could be argued, as some Government officials
have, that this is a normal process in economic development which the slow
improvement of traditional agriculture may not have halted.  It seems never-
theless obvious that the introduction of large scale mechanized farming has
greatly accelerated the process.   Here again, it seems that a well supported
smallholder agriculture would have been preferable.
1/    Grace Goodel, Agricultural Production in a Traditional Village of
Northern Khuzestan, Marburg/Lahn, 1975, in Marburger Geographische
Schriften.



- 32 -
VIII.   ECOOMOIIC AMD FINtV1CIAL ANALYSIS
Relevance of Analvsis
8.01        Economic and financial analysis was carried out on at least five
occasions between 1960 and 1972 either by the Bank or the International
Finance Corporation. These analyses, which became progressively more complex
in response to new problems, showed that the rate of return oscillated
around the opportunity cost of capital estimated at 12%.  They failed to shed
much light on the major issue that beset project implementation:  smallholder
versus large-scale mechanized farming.
8.02      The initial analysis of the Stage I project financed under 594-I<;
was entirelv based on the development of smallholder agriculture on 57,000 ha.
Its basic analysis considered all previous investments as sunk costs and found
that the economic rate of return of the incremental investment was 12%.
The incorporation of infrastructure costs incurred under the pilot irrigation
area resulted in a rate of return approaching 10%.   The reappraisal of the
Stage I project in August 1972 had to decide how to cope with the the pheno-
menon of agribusiness, anticipated to occupy 80% of the project area. Despite
the lack of any experimental data the reappraisal assumed that agribusiness
would achieve higher cropping intensity and yields, and grow more high value
crops. It therefore concluded that agribusiness ventures could accelerate the
rate of agricultural development and improve economic benefits.
8.03       The appraisal and reappraisal of the Stage I project only evaluated
the returns on the incremental investments and basically considered all
previous expenditures as sunk costs.   The appraisal of the Stage II project
evaluated both the returns on the incremental as well as prorated total
costs for a project area, of which 80% was to be developed by agribusiness.
It also introduced the question of the net capital inflow and thereby indi-
rectly raised the issue of the beneficiary:   Iranians or foreigners?   The
appraisal of Stage II showed that the economic rate of return on the project
would be 14%; it would be reduced to 13% if prorated costs of the dam and the
irrigation system were taken into account and further to 11% if benefits
accruing to foreign shareholders were transferred out of Iran.  The Stage II
appraisal report did not draw the possible conclusion from these findings that
the development of traditional agriculture might have had a higher rate of
return.
8.04         The International Finance Corporation in its evaluation of Iran
California Company projected the rate of return to Iran from the investment
in the agribusiness  to be 21%.   This rate of return related the economic
benefits expected from increased agricultural output in the area to the
investment expenditures on farm development financed by the Company, all
previous expenditure being considered as sunk costs.   However,  the economic
rate of return to Iran was reduced to 3%, when the project was charged with a
proportional share of the cost of developing the irrigation infrastructure.
The financial rate of return to Iran California Company was more than 20%.



- 33 -
8.05       The above estimate of the economic rate of return also took into
account the balance of capital flowing in (equity and loans) and out (repay-
ment of principal, dividends and interest). Since the project was expected to
yield a high financial return to Iran California partly as a result of past
infrastructure expenditures exclusively borne by the Government, the level of
dividends repatriated and other capital outflows abroad were expected to be
large compared with the initial capital inflows.  Consequently, IFC estimated
that foreign financing of agricultural development through agribusiness would
reduce the net economic project benefits  to Iran.   IFC concluded that if
Iran were able to carry out the Project with the same benefits but without
foreign participation,   the economic return,  including past investments in
infrastructure would increase from 3 to 8%.  Since indigenous know-how was not
available, however, IFC were unable to suggest a means of implementing this
solution.
8.06         IFC nevertheless explored various ways and means of increasing
returns to Iran on its infrastructure investment. One way would have been an
increase in the level of water charges, land rentals and taxes to be paid by
agribusinesses.   Another way would have been the allocation of unsold shares
in the company to Iranian shareholders to increase the national share in the
benefits.  The problem with these measures was that they would probably have
been resisted by foreign interests who were only attracted to Iran by the
promise of high profits.   IFC concluded that a conflict existed between the
success of Government efforts to attract foreign agricultural investment and
know-how to the country and the possibility of Iran's obtaining a better
economic rate of return on its investment in the irrigation infrastructure.
8.07       IFC did not consider smallholder agriculture as an alternative to
commercial  large-scale  farming.   However,  the type of analysis  summarized
above would have shed some light on the discussion of the relative merits of
smallholder agriculture and agribusiness ventures.   The need to prevent the
outflow of benefits might have drawn attention to the existence in Iran of a
capital-saving locally-available resource -- human labor -- which the Bank had
considered previously to be capable of reaching good agricultural results on
the basis of experience in the pilot irrigation scheme.
Farm Incomes
8.08        The Appraisal report envisaged the project area to be farmed by
individual owners or tenants in expectation of title.  Project implementation
would raise their incomes from a pre-project level of US$1,000 to US$ 3,300
at full development (both figures in 1969 dollars).  Whether this would have
occurred we can no longer tell since individual farmers have largely dis-
appeared, as illustrated by the present land ownership pattern.   After land
reform by the late 60's, most of the land in the Khuzestan was privately owned
except for the Haft Tapeh sugar plantation. At present KWPA owns about 80,000
ha and farm corporations cover about 10,000 ha.   As a result, most of the
project area is now in public hands.  A small proportion, possibly about 30%
of the original population -- former farmers or tenants -- have been turned
into wage laborers for agribusinesses (see para 7.20) through a process of
proletarianization and collectivization, while the majority has probably left
the rural areas for urban centers.



- 34 -
8.09       The incomes of wage laborers and members of farm corporation have
not reached the incomes envisaged at appraisal.   Since it is unlikely that
farm laborers 1/ work at present more than 150 to 200 days a year, a family
income would be in the range of US$400 to US$500 a year (in 1969 dollars),
about half of the pre-project average family income.   lluch of this income
decline has been in favor of farm managers, civil servants and suppliers of
imported goods and services.
Outlook
8.10         After twenty years of effort,  the project area has experienced
major upheavals but it is as yet impossible to chart a future course with
any certainty.   Traditional farming has been destroyed but no viable alter-
native has been found.   Large scale mechanized farming which was to be the
alternative is not viable.   There is a general consensus that smaller pro-
duction units are more economical but there is no agreement on the optimal
size.   Despite long and costly efforts, no high value crops have been found
to justify the heavy investment, operation and maintenance costs of the
infrastructure  facilities.    Crop  revenues  are barely  sufficient  to cover
direct costs let alone overhead costs.  The delays between water availability
and agricultural development have grown to such an extent that no cropping
pattern may be sufficient to justify past investments. The ERR on the entire
project investment including the dam and irrigation systems is negative.
Even treating the dam as sunk cost the ERRs on the irrigation systems of both
Stage I and Stage II are also negative.
IX.  BAI4K MID CONSULTANT PERFORKANCE
Bank Performance
9.01      The Bank's performance can only be understood against the background
of its 20-year long association with the Khuzestan development. This associa-
tion was punctuated by basic disagreements between the Borrower and the Bank
on the scope and nature of the infrastructure facilities (see para. 2.01) and
the development concept  (see paras.  3.01 to 3.05).   The magnitude of these
disagreements was only matched by the Borrower's determination to achieve its
objectives by all means and the Bank's reluctant acceptance of the Borrower's
views as a result perhaps of the Bank's inability to properly evaluate the
Borrower's intentions (see paras. 3.03 and 6.02).
9.02         The Bank's major handicaps in dealing with project authorities
were twofold.   The Bank's first handicap was that it believed that it could
agree with the Borrower on facts.   The Borrower, however, changed situations
1/   Two laborers per family working each 150 to 200 days a year and making
US$1.32/day in 1969 dollars.



- 35 -
at times. This occurred for instance when the Borrower and the Bank disagreed
in the late 1950s on the nature of the project (see para. 2.03). Confronted
with  a new situation,  the Bank had no choice but to agree.   This pattern
re?eated itself particularly during implementation of the Dez Irrigation
Project. The Bank's second handicap was that it assumed time and again
that the Borrower would follow through on verbal and written agreements as it
did itself. This assumption was disproved both during project preparation and
implementation.
9.03        There are several instances when the Bank believed it had reached
written or verbal agreements with the Borrower only to find out subsequently
that its views and those of the Borrower were as far apart as ever.  One such
instance occurred when the third appraisal mission of the Stage I Project
returned in 1968 to Washington with the conviction it had agreed with the
Government on setting aside for agribusinesses not more than 3,800 ha (i.e.,
about 7% of the project area) to test the viability of agribusinesses (see
para. 3.05).   However, the Government's legislative drive during this period
shows (see paras. 3.03 and 6.02), and its position during loan negotiation
proves (see paras. 3.06-3.08), that the Government favored large scale mecha-
nized farming of the complete project area all along.
9.04         Another series of instances further reveals how the Borrower's
disregard for written and verbal agreements was a consistent feature of
Bank-Borrower relations.   These occurred during project implementation when
the Government extended the areas for large scale mechanized farming progres-
sively without prior consultations with the Bank (see paras. 4.01-4.02).
Despite the Borrower's repeated breaches of the Loan Agreements, the Bank
continued to believe it could rely on Government assurances.   Thus, when on
three occasions supervision missions recommended suspension of disbursements
or loan cancellation, Bank management decided against this upon receiving
assurances from high Government officials that the problems would be remedied
when this possibility was mentioned to them.  But they never fully were.  In
fact, the Borrower employed this approach successfully several times until the
Bank had moved progressively away from its position on small holder develop-
ment and accepted the Borrower's views on large scale mechanized farming
expressed as early as 1967.
9.05       In the final analysis, the reason why the Bank was willing to
agree to this gradual erosion of the concept of development of the project
area through  small holders was:   (1) the Government's interest in a major
increase in Bank participation in Iran's development program; (2) the high
level assurances received when problems arose that the Government would put
things right; and (3) the Government's request for Bank assistance on agricul-
tural policy as a whole. In 1972, the Government requested the Bank to set up
an agricultural mission in Iran to advise it on agricultural development
policy  in the country.   This was  established in 1973.   Settlement  policy
became one of several major policy issues under discussion.   The possibility
of a suspension of disbursement in this project thus was viewed in the light
of the dialogue on agricultural policy that seemed to have been opened up with
the Borrower, as well as in the context of the Bank's apparent potential
overall influence on economic policy as a whole.  In both respects, the harm
that would have been done by suspension was outweighed in the Bank's view by



- 36 -
the potential benefits  of sustaining the dialogue.   In June 1972, the Bank
finally suspended negotiations on Dez II, soon after they had begun in Wash-
ington, when it was discovered that the Borrower had changed the project
design compared with what was appraised.   Indeed by 1975, the Government had
recognized it was wrong.   Unfortunately,  by then the damage to the agri-
cultural development of the Dez Project had been done.
Consultants
9.06      The Iranian Plan Organization's decision to invite the then recently
founded (1955) US consulting firm to assist the Government in its efforts to
develop the Khuzestan region appears to have been based on the stature of the
consultant's Chairman and his previous involvement in the Tennessee Vallev
Authority (TVA).  Rather than hiring a consulting firm solely on the basis of
technical competence, the Plan Organisation acquired the services of an entity
with a specific development message and apparently willing only to undertake
work compatible with its basic outlook and ready to withdraw -- at least in
theory -- if this outlook was questioned.
9.07       The consultant's development message was based on the concept that
public development of infrastructure facilities was a necessary first phase.
In a second phase, private business would seize the opportunities provided by
the creation of infrastructure which in turn would lead to sustained economic
and social development.   This objective would be reached through the efforts
of a regional development authority provided with comprehensive powers and
unfettered by bureaucratic regulations.   The consultant's guiding principle
was not to get bogged down in reports but to proceed swiftly from planning to
action and usually to initiate action even before the investigation and
initial reports were completed.   This attitude would lead the consultants to
advocate, if necessary, setting investment in motion before planning was
complete and then using this as a justification to continue investing accord-
ing to the proposed plan.   Especially when presented by the Bank, the con-
sultants considered figures less important--they were considered only as
judgments disguised as facts--than political decisions, the real key to
development.
9.08       The consultant's strategy was based on a close relationship between
themselves and Iranian Government officials who would adopt its message and
methods.   These included an astute evaluation of the political situation and
the Bank's freedom of maneuver, emphasis on speed of implementation, willing-
ness to create irreversible facts to force a favorable solution, readiness to
accept temporary setbacks but single minded determination to realize overall
objectives.
9.09      The consultants' cooperation with the Iranian Government authorities
was fruitful.   It appears,  at least superficially,  that  their development
philosophy was implemented since they provided the blueprint for the multi-
purpose dam and large-scale mechanized farming development and set up KWPA as



- 37 -
a regional development authority.   They also supplied the strategy for over-
coming the Bank's objections to these schemes.  In line with the consultants'
approach all the elements for a successful regional development are present
but at least agricultural development has not taken place. The dam was built
but the water remains largely unused for irrigation. KWlPA's role as a regional
development agency was terminated in 1969. Agribusiness firms have failed and
Farm Corporations have met with little success.  Thus, irrigation development
in the Khuzestan shows the extent and the limits of a consulting firm's
involvement in a developing country.
X. CONCLUSIONS
10.1        At this point in the history of the development of the irrigated
area commanded from the Pahlavi Dam the future course of events is uncertain
since the policy of the new Government in Iran towards large-scale mechanized
farming is unknown.  Even as far back as 1975, however, it was already clear
and recognized by the Government that the system of development adopted for
the project--large-scale mechanized farming by agribusinesses--had to be
modified if agricultural production was to be significantly increased.   The
proponents of agribusiness had seen them as the best means of rapidly modern-
izing the traditional agricultural system, and a way of providing a suffi-
ciently large margin of profit to meet the high costs of land development in
the project area. When agribusinesses actually took over the development and
cultivation of the project area, they failed to become the dynamic source of
modern  technology  that had been expected of them.   Even though they were
strongly supported by the Government, which tried initially to provide all the
necessary conditions for this success, the measures the Government took were
inadequate to overcome an economic and social environment that was slow to
adapt to the sophisticated needs of mechanized farming.   These difficulties
were further compounded by lack of agricultural data on crop performance under
large-scale cultivation. The expectation that results achieved on small-scale
experimental plots could be transferred to large-scale farm conditions,
whether mechanized or not, proved a major source of error.  As a result, the
system of farming as developed by the agribusinesses in Khuzestan provided
only slender if any margins over variable costs insufficient to cover their
high overhead costs and in the end they had to be supported by major injec-
tions of Government funds.  The result of this is that the project's economic
rate of return is not only far from the expected 11-14% but is instead nega-
tive.   Production in the project area is now less than it was before the
irrigation system was built.   Employment has fallen and even the incomes of
those who remain are lower than they were before the project started.  While
Khuzestan now possesses an excellent, modern irrigation system, the system of
farming to use it profitably has yet to be introduced.
10.2       The reason why the Project is in this state today is that the
Government pushed an unproven but sophisticated technology too far and too
fast.  From the time the Government decided to introduce large-scale mechan-
ized farming in about 1967, Bank missions continually underlined the need to
test such a method of farming on a trial area before giving out large leases



- 38 -
to private agribusinesses.   The different views of the Government and its
consultants on the one hand, and the Bank on the other, on the best ways of
developing agriculture in nhuzestan, did not so much revolve around the issue
Df large-scale versus traditional farming but around the adoption of a system
of farming that had been shown to be profitable in the difficult local condi-
tions against one that had not.  A major purpose of the original Dez Multi-
purpose Project had been to test the viability of a system of farming in the
area on a pilot scale.   The results led Bank missions to believe that this
system--smallholder farming--would be an economic means of developing the
whole area. There was no experience with any other system to prove one way or
another that smallholder farming was the best or only system.   On the other
hand, the experience of the pilot project at least showed it should be viable.
The Bank, therefore, supported it.  Bank staff also believed it had convinced
the Government to go slow in introducing large-scale mechanized farming when,
during negotiations, the Government agreed to limit the area to be devoted to
this type of farming to 20,300 ha out of the total of 57,000 ha.
10.03      Examination of later actions by the Government make it clear that
this  conviction was  at best  short-lived.   The Government  reverted to its
previous policy of promoting development of most of the project area through
agribusiness only a few weeks after the loan had been approved and demon-
strated this by signing letters of intent with agribusinesses for almost
double the area allowed bv the Loan Agreement.
10.04      From the time of the first supervision mission in late 1969 until
mid 1974, the Bank and the Borrower were in constant dispute about the rela-
tive areas to be developed by smallholders or agribusinesses/Farm Corporations.
While  the Borrower was de facto almost continually  in breach of the Loan
Agreement, and three supervision missions recommended suspension of disburse-
ments, the Bank was in a very difficult position.  On the one hand, there was
little evidence, at least initially, to prove large-scale mechanization was
not a viable alternative to smallholder development; on the other, it was the
method chosen by the Government to modernize agriculture in Iran as a whole.
Suspending disbursements, therefore, would appear as a rejection of the
Government efforts at modernization; not to suspend meant accepting the need
to change the whole concept of development agreed at negotiations.
10.05       The argument that the system would work was largely based on its
success in the Western United States.  The evidence to the contrary was based
on experience in a series of projects in underdeveloped countries where
large-scale mechanized farming had been a costly failure.   The Bank's long
experience in such countries made it recommend a cautious approach to the
Government. The Government's desire for rapid results dictated otherwise. At
each point when supervision missions recommended suspension of disbursements,
high level contacts with the Government led to promises of improved compliance
with loan conditions.   While these usually did not materialize, the Bank was
obliged to accept them at their face value.   In addition, from 1972 onwards
when the Government requested intensive Bank assistance in agricultural
policy, which resulted in the establishment of a Bank mission in Iran specif-
ically charged with providing advice on agricultural and rural development
policy to the Government, the possibilities of influencing Government policies



- 39 -
away from exclusive reliance on agribusinesses appeared to become considerably
stronger.  Thus, the arguments against suspension of this loan grew weaker as
the possibilities of influencing Government policy in a larger context were
increased.   From internal evidence,  it would seem that, by  the time this
mission closed in mid-1976, the Government had changed its policy.  This was
too late, however, to allow an easy reversion to the original smallholder
concept.
10.06       Judging by farm survey data now available, it is likely that de-
velopment through smallholders would have resulted in a much more rapid growth
of total production than through the methods actually adopted and that the ERR
on the project would have been satisfactory.   It is clear in hindsight that
the Bank's original concept of smallholder development was the right one.  It
is unfortunate that the Government's tactics of gradually forcing the Bank to
accept its policy of developing the project area predominantly through large-
scale mechanized farming, were able to succeed. The failure of the project to
yield the expected production increases is the result.
10.07       Set against this failure must be set its success in building the
requisite irrigation infrastructure, at a cost not greatly in excess of
appraisal estimates, despite its construction during a period of rapidly
rising prices.   Most of the cost increases were the result of the delay in
only one contract. Adjusting for changes in project content the cost increase
was about 22%°, a reasonable increase considering the period involved.   The
works constructed were to the specifications laid down in the appraisal report
and the project now has a first-class irrigation network.  The problem is of
course that irrigation water is available but that it is not being used to the
extent possible.
10.08       The main lesson to be learnt from the experience of this project
is that the physical construction of infrastructure facilities is relatively
easy compared with the achievement of less tangible agricultural and social
project  objectives.    The latter  is particularly difficult  if there is an
incomplete meeting of minds between the Bank and the Borrower. In the project
under review, the Bank showed a great degree of flexibility in agreeing to the
Government's proposed changes in the project content when this appeared
necessary in order to maintain any degree of influence over the project and
sector policies.   Such flexibility did not always lead to the best course of
action, when considered with the benefit of hindsight, but was probably the
only viable alternative at the time.
10.09      In the first place, the Bank's willingness to accommodate the
changes in the forms of development which the Government introduced without
consultation with the Bank appears to have increased proportionally with its
degree of involvement in the project and in the Iranian economy. Two examples
of this are particularly worthy of note. The first instance came at the stage
of loan negotiations when the Bank accepted a much greater involvement of
agribusinesses  than it felt was  technically justified.   A second instance
occurred on at least two occasions during project implementation when the Bank
felt obilged to concur with successive diminutions in the area devoted to
ssallholder farming in order to continue its participation in the hope that



- 40 -
its presence would at least salvage some of the original project concept as
well as its expanding relationship with the Government.   In the event this
proved a vain hope.
10.10      Secondly, while the Bank emphasized economic criteria as important
tools in decision-making, it accepted that political considerations assumed
overriding importance  for the Borrower.   For instance,  when the Borrower
started considering the establishment of large-scale mechanized farming as a
further step in the implementation of its land reform policy, the Bank was
inclined to accept it as a Government policy option in which it did not wish
to interfere.   In this context, it did not use its only available remedies--
suspension of disbursements or loan cancellation--to dissuade the Borrower
from a course of action which it thought excessively risky. The Bank's chance
to show its disapproval of Government policy came when it refused to finance
Stage II of the Dez Irrigation Project because the Government still persisted
in promoting agribusiness in the face of growing evidence in the Stage I
project that they were not an economic means of developing the area.  In the
end, therefore, the Bank had the last word on the subject, one which proved
eventually to be fully justified.  The pity is that, in the meantime, all the
benefits that had begun to emerge through land reform and the provision of
irrigation--the break-up of large estates, the settlement of smallholders, the
emergence of a more prosperous peasant class and increased employment for the
landless--were abruptly reversed when the development of this area was handed
over to agribusinesses.   The result was social upheaval,  depopulation, de-
creased incomes and employment, and a heavy drain on the Government budget,
without any compensating gain in production or a more rapid pace of development.



ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
iRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the second step in an over-all agricultural
development plan for the area known as the Dez Irrigation Project in the
province of Khuzestan, the first step of which, consisting of a pilot irriga-
tion scheme covering about 20,000 ha on the left bank of the Dez River
immediately south of Dezful known as the Dez Pilot Irrigation Project (DPIP),
was financed in part under the First Loan Agreement. The present Project is
Stage I in the progressive development of irrigation, drainage and on-farm
development in the Dez Irrigation Project, Stage II of which subject to the
provisons of Section 5.05 (b) of the Loan Agreement, will cover the balance of
the irrigable land therein.
The Project includes:
A.   Irrigation and Drainage Works.  The construction of: (1) a
re-regulating dam and a diversion dam near Dezful; and (2)
canals, drains, irrigation distribution systems, flood pro-
tection works and maintenance roads to serve a total of
about 37,000 ha of which about 35,500 ha are located on the
right bank of the Dez River and 1,500 ha in the Ghomaysh
area.
B.   On-Farni Development.  On-farm development of the 37,000 ha
mentioned in paragraph A above and of the 20,000 ha compris-
ing the DPIP, consisting of the leveling and preparation of



ANNEX 1
Page 2
land and the provision of field channels for irrigation
distribution and drainage down to farm level.
C.   Sub-surface Drainage System.  The construction of a sub-
surface drainage system in accordance with the recommenda-
tions of the study provided for in paragraph H (6) hereof.
D.   Roads, Service Buildings and Facilities.  The construction
of: (1) a road network consisting of (a) a main east-west
road and bridge across the Dez River, (b) two main north-
south roads, and (c) a feeder-roads system; and (2) three
district service centers, together with facilities.
E.   Operation, Maintenance and Farm Machinery and Equipment.
The Procurement and utilization of: (1) operation and main-
tenance equipment for the irrigation and drainage works;
and (2) equipment for agricultural field operations of
farmers, acquired with the credits provided for in para-
graph F below.
F.   Agricultural Credit to Farmers and Farmers' Societies.
The Provision of agricultural credit services to farmer
and societies of farmers in the area of the Project for
purposes of the Project.
G.   Training.  The establishment and operation, under expe-
rienced and competent management, of a training center
providing (1) to project personnel, courses and programs,
including courses in operation and maintenance of Project
facilities, farm management and the techniques appropriate



ANNEX 1
Page 3
to the agricultural extension, credit and marketing ser-
vices for the Project, and other related subjects; and (2)
to farmers, courses in farming techniques, including the
operation of farm machinery.
H.   Programs and Studies.  The Preparation and Implementation
of:
(1)  A cost accounting system for the Project;
(2)  A land redistribution, consolidation and settle-
ment program for the 37,000 ha mentioned in para A
above, . ue carried out progressively as required
by the Project;
(3)  A marketing study, including proposals for the
establishment of such marketing services as are
required for the Project, to be prepared by
December 31, 1969;
(4)  A detailed plan of operation for the agricultural
service department of KW4PA's Project organization
to be established by June 30, 1969;
(5)  An agricultural credit study to serve as a basis
for carrying out that part of the Project described
in para F above and to include proposals for admin-
istering the funds to be provided under this Agree-
meent for such part of the Project, to be completed
within one year from the date hereof; and
(6)  A study of surface drainage requirements for the
area of the Project, to be completed by Junle 30,
1970.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT STAGE I
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1967             1968             2969              1970             1971             1972             1913              1974            1976              1976              1977             1978
STAGE I PariuaI F,naino. byt aI11L\b
GD 101 C-nl-o1 Gain.                                                        _         A -
Hoi. and Srnp Logo                                                               _ 
Pt-r.gulniang D-. D-nOion                              *gpsss*sa   *ssSSsss.5    ala
Da mnd Main C,nal
GD 102 - R,-.mula,ing and
Dimnoon DO,, 158 Km of
West M    -,n r , 25 Km n o.                                        Contrayt ReA.igned
OEnondanv Canal nd Lane,.I               1....,@* auSIauIeSuSSSgluaaSmlSaum,  a   mm#eSsuIl.,.,    *"fiiilIllS
and 42 K. DOains
GD 103 - Shush Shflah                                                                                        -D
Road 33 Km anda  ,Adge
on DEZ Ri.n,                                                                                                               l**S**gl**5   *1g111111  aguggiiillle
GD 104- Northern Dini.
bution Sy.e- of b.ou 36 Km.
C na.. and t11 Km LA1.als.
58KmOn.isrsd 116 Km Roaul                                                               *a11551,agii *,IIIS5SSI   SSIUSIIIUS
GD I05 A asd 1058 - SUPOY
and ,istallation of Pu,,os.
Moto. Md Control S Thr                                                                                   IllUllIlll   a upggSSSSgmlm  mas
GD 106 - Cotrol Gotem ad                                                         _
Ho.ti for GD 107 Cana . is-
toibutron Sy-rnr                                                                                             m***|***g  ****am,ssZ,*,mm  * in
GO 107 - So.rh.,n Oinl-
b.ti-o SYota of 35 Km                                                                                       __ r                                                                                               ai I n htm AWind
Cnal.s aid 124 Km Lrmnhls
48Km Roods,  d 120 Km ia*lOtISItStSIttSIS   lSSSl9SttSii   9*iiiii,,tt|t *1 1911U151511 SS.EIU
GD 2091/ - Control GMe. 
Im Canal Dimibution Syntm_
GO I lo  - Reain- d . ol Rod                                                                                                                               __
*rd M.n Dorainmg Sytitt
GO 111  And B2/-S fN a..nd                                                                                         ||  |"|@e"||s           .. millose*
I.rtallaio- 02 Pump. end MVtano
fo 20 Pump T.rnop-
By Foam, AOOOOO
Land Lmling                       Im*.***9 91ms*  iuemammm_ _ s_                                                                                                                                                                  Eapntoed
Dtelopmont mnd SuH alf                                                                                                                                                                                                            CDmpl8niat,
Dritng. (Most of Prn1awt A...l                                                                                                                                                                .ms         su . ...                aa,      ua
AbDo Winks .olv fo, 5300 h.
EoiDpm.nt Proorannant_
Be.IIaIaof,I mm loIIsogoIIasI .lSmassI.a ail a,.a §|@8eslo.a.s loom  .S,asl.Im    ll,i,aalssmelum  ulosuIeaauam   l  *lIellmmssss)
SMld Bank - 19281
/ ion ua d bat indadad ia GD 106                                                              I
W  No, hotnn in  vi.d rport Tp_                                                          EAtmteId 1969
b737 A ao,,M-tcitm lailckltd                                                           Amo
g/ Not usEd bM indudd In anth. c05*K3



ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN - DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
STAGE I
Cost Estimates
US$ '000
Appraisal 1969 Estimates                  Actual Costs
Local     Foreign      Total        Local    Foreign    Total
A. Comparable Components
I.  Irrigation and Drainage Works  26,200    9,000         35,200      36,742    10,958    47,700/a
III. Roads, Buildings and
Facilities                4,500    1,900        6,400       3,580      1,100     4,680/b
IV. Equipment for Operation and
Maintenance                  -       1,800        1,800      1,146        914      2,060
VI.  Consultants Services Xl           1,700    5,100        6,800       1,217      5,543     6,760
Subtotal A                 32,400   17,800        50,200     42,685    18,515    61,200
B. Components elliminated or Curtailed
II.  On-farm development              10,200    4,300       14,500      11,800       --      11,800
.V. Agricultural Credit for
Farm Machinery               1,700    2,500         4,200       -           -        --
VII. Interest during construction,
etc.                       -      5,400        5,400        -         4,000     4,000
Subtotal B                11,900   12,200       24,100      11,800      4,000    15,800
Total A + B                     44,300   30,000        74,300     54,485    22,515    77,000
./ Includes operational and project area roads which were at the appraisal stage included in
Category III.
b/ Includes only Slush-Shushtar asphalt road, buildinRs and facilities.
c/ Costs for consultant services and similar items of common expenditure prorated
between Stage I and Stage II.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Stage I
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan       1st          2nd                       Final Allocation
Agreement   Revision/a  Revision/b  Reallocation/c of Proceeds
 --------------------------US$100 -
I.  Civil Works (Irrigation and Drainage         12,700       13,800       11,659       11,659       12,057,548.70
works; on farm developments; roads,
buildings and other facilities)
II.  Loans on farm machinery                       2,500        1,500         -            -
III.  Operation & Maintenance Equipment             1,600        1,800        1,600        1,600          913,469.27
IV.  Consulting Services                           5,100        5,100        5,100        5,741        5,543,136.77
V.  Interest and other charges on                 5,400        4,400        4,000        4,000        4,000,000.00
loan during construction
VI.  Unallocated                                   2,700        1,400          641          -                -
Total                                      30,000       28,000      23,000       23,000        22,514,154.74
Cancellation                                                                                        485,845.26
Total Loan Amount                                                                              23,000,000.00
a/ On December 1, 1972.
E  On September 15, 1973.
c/ On April 7, 1976.
X.



Annex 5
Table 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Agribusiness Cropping Patterns in 1977
(in ha)
Iran         Iran         Iran        Iran        Galle       Total
Perennial            America      California  Shellcott  International
Alfalfa                320          350          110        1,030          140        1,950
Pasture                120           -            30          420           -           570
Fruits                 800           -            30          -             80          910
Total                1,240          350          170        1,450          220        3,430
Winter
Grains               3,480        3,050        3,820        2,450        1,200       14,000
Sugarbeets             550          600          480        1,510          350        3,490
Vegetables             290           20          130          -             20          460
Joint Ventures l/       -            -           110          -             -           110
Total                4,320        3,670        4,540        3,960        1,570       18,060
Summer
Corn & milo            360          600          470          -            -          1,430
Cotton                 390           -            -           -            -            390
Vegetables              20           -            10          -            -              30
Joint Ventures 1/   2,720         1,770          410                       170        5,070
Total                3,490        2,370          890          -            170        6,920
Total Cropped        9,050        6,390        5,600        5,410        1,960       28,410
Area
Leveled Areas        3,300        4,213        5,494        5,643        1,100       19,750
Iransfered Area    14,363        10,777        8,314       14,162        4,010       51,626
as of June 1977
Allocated Area      20,485       10,536       17,399       16,744        4,010       69,174
/1 Areas rented out to immigrant farmers.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Cropping Patterns in the Proiect Area
(in ha)
------- Pre-project--------    ----------Projected 3/-------   -------Actual in 1978-------
1/            2/                      1/            2/
Stage I      Stage It       Total    Stage I -   Stage II    Total   Agribusiness  Farm           Total
Corp.
Perennial
Alfalfa                                                    8,000        6,570         14,570      1950         150    2,100
Pasture                                                    2,000                       2,000       570                   570
Fruits                               260          260      2,000        2,490         4,490        910         180    1,090
Total                                260          260     12,000        9,060        21,060    3,430           330    3,760
Winter
Grains              24,000        10,290       34,290    18,000         4,150         22,150    14,000        2,160  16,160
Sugarbeets                                                 4,000        4,010          8,010      3,490         550  .4,040
Vegetables                         1,130        1,130      3,000        1,720          4,720        460         700   1,160
Bersum                                                     3,000        1,800         4,800                     100      100
Oilseeds                             500           500     3,000        2,420          5,420                    340      340
Joint Ventures                                                                                      110                  110
Others               2_000_                     2 000      3,000                      3,000         110               1__
Total               26,000        11,920       37,9Z?I    34,000       14,100        48,100    18,060         3,850  21,910
Summer
Rice                 5,000         1,070        6,070      6,000          -           6,000                      50       50
Corn                                                       4,000        4,010         8,010       1,430               1,430
Cotton                                                     4,000        3,260         7,260         390                  390
Vegetables           2,000         1,460        3,460      3,000        1,720         4,720          30         170      200
Joint Ventures                                                                                    5,070                5,070
Oilseeds             2,000                      2,000      3,000        2,420          5,420
Others               1,000             _        1,000      2,000           -          2 000                      60       60
Total               10,000         2,530       12,530    22,000        11,410        33,410      6,920          280   7,200
Grand Total         36,000        14,710       50,710    68,000        34,570       102,570    28,410         4,460  32,870
Net irrigable area 57,000         27,000       84,000    57,000       .27,000        84,000    69,200        11,500  80,700  
1/ Appraisal Report TO-687,March 3, 1969.
2/ Report PA-130,April 24, 1972,green cover
3/ At full development.



Annex ';
TablIe 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Stage I
Status of Land Allocation
Hectares-
Stage I           Stage II         Total
1. Agribusiness
Iran - America                    8,830            11,658            20,488
Iran - Shellcot                   4,200             13,199           112.9V
Iran - California                10,536                -             10,536
International                    16,744                              16,744
Galle                             4.010                - ___n
Subtotal                      44E320            24,857           L9l1,*
2.  Farm Corporations                 9,088              2,800              888
3.  Private Farming                   5,450                -              5,453
4.  Others                            1,536                               1,536
Subtotal 2 to 4                  16.074              2,800           l8*74
Total                            60,394 /a          27,657           88,Q5
5.  Haft Tapeh Sugar Cane area                                           11 100
TOTAL
a/ Gross area.
JL/ Water supplies delivered to existing irrigation system at north botndary
through West Main Canal constructed under Stage I.



Annex 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN: DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Iran Shellcott Budget 1978
Summarized Profit and Loss Statement
for a 5,000 ha area, in Rls. '000
Gross Margin /1              Total       Per Hectare
Field Crops             3,200         0.64
Livestock                (700)        (0.14)
Total                    2,500        0.50
Overhead Costs
General                68,900        13.78
Amortization
Land Development    14,700          2.94
Soil Improvement    10,800          2.16
Interest               74,100        14.82
Total                 168,500         33.70
Net Loss                   166,000        33.20
/1 Gross sales minus direct costs adjusted for
stock changes.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAll:  DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOA1 594-IRN)
Farm Corporations
1.         Four Farm Corporations--joint stock companies to which farmers turn
over their assets for shares--were established in the Northern part of the
former DIP on Class II lands with full water supply and excellent access to
the town of Dezful.   The Government  appointed and financed for each farm
corporation seven to ten technicians including the managing director, or one
technician for 180 ha of cultivated land.  Until the end of 1977, the Govern-
ment had spent Rls 45 million (US$0.6 million) in grants and Rls 183 million
(US$2.4 million) on the farm corporation, amounting to. US$2,900 per share-
holder.   These investments had led in 1977/78 to a cropping pattern in which
grains still pre-dominated with 49% compared to 60% in 1968/69.  Significant
increases took place in vegetables (20% compared to 10% in 1968/69) and
sugarbeet--a new crop--occupied 12% of the area in 1978.  Dividends have been
distributed annually for all farm corporations ever since start-up.
2.          The farm corporations complained about insufficient and slow pro-
gress in land leveling. At the end of 1977, only slightly more than one third
of the cultivated area had been leveled.   Marketing of crops particularly
vegetables had proved uncertain.  Costs of water, labor--a shortage existed--
spare parts, costs of herbicides were found to be too high. Machines were old
and obsolete  and needed urgent  replacement.    The continued  existence  and
proximity of private land created management problems.   Finally, many share-
holders lived in the town of Dezful and did not take much interest in the
operation of farm corporations.   National figures show that farm corporation
yields as well as water efficiencies decreased for important crops.
3.         It appears that farm corporations have not fared much better--if at
all-- than agribusiness firms.  In the first place, although they are smaller
than agribusiness firms, FCs were still oversized compared with the management
capabilities available at farm corporation level and in the implementing
agencies.   Related to this is the problem of mechanization and its appropri-
ateness in the circumstances prevailing in the project area.  Balanced mechani-
zation, appropriate technology has not yet been found.  Secondlv, farm corpo-
rations had less financial problems than agribusiness firms because of con-
tinued subsidies provided by Government.   The subsidies financed not only
investment  costs  but  also  salaries  and  perhaps  other  operating  expenses.
Funds were practically interest free.   It is not certain whether allowances
have been made for depreciation or whether the Government will replace the
obsolete machinery. If the necessary adjustments were made, it is likely that
no dividends would be justified.   It appears, on the basis of insufficient
data, that farm corporations are only viable because of continued Government
support.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.         Thirdly, the lack of interest exhibited by farm corporation share-
holders can be traced as follows.  The 1968 legislation enabled the Government
to establish farm corporations if 51% of the farmers accepted to join but the
Government could also establish farm corporations "under any circumstances"
without the farmers' consent.   Since farmers had only just become beneficia-
ries of private lands through the land reform legislation it is likely that
the majority joined farm corporations more or less involuntarily.  The change
in status from self-employed farmers to that of agricultural laborer working
under the direction of inexperienced managers, may have contributed to their
lack of interest.   Farm corporations are likely to have stifled the very
energies and initiatives set free by a successful land reform.
5.           Fourthly,  farm corporations do not provide incentives to small
shareholders and landless laborers.  They have concentrated on increasing net
profits and, therefore, dividends by attempting to limit labor wages.   The
wage policy favors big shareholders who do not rely on FC wages and discourage
smallholders and landless laborers who depend on them. The results are
further income disparities and shortages of labor.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRAN; DEZ IRRICATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)
Basic Data for Farm Corporations
Numaber    'Ibtal      Cultivated   Leveled        Crop       Staff                    Crants          Loans
of Slkare    Area         Land         Land         Area   Provided by    Sheep    Received 1,  Received
llolders    (A)          (la)         (Ila)         (ha)    Covernment               Rials(mll)    Ria1s(mil)
Shush            390        3,000        2,300        1,800         2,200        10         3,155         17.9         59.6
Dezful           269        2,900        1,500           500        1,240        10         1,692          6.5         31.5
Dez              223        1,454        1,200           2/           290         7         3,893          9.0         51.2
Slhanmabad       235        1,46i4       1,460           -          1,040         9         1,969        11.7          40.5
TOTAL        1,117        8,818        6,460        2,300        4,770         36        10,709        45.1         182.8
1/ so far
ti under level1igp
X p






ToTehron\
Andish ik            eI\V                                        5
-  V    .:  ,INPALAND
Reregulating 
&5/
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KILOMETERSIBD3o(PRA   coe\98
Thin tray han been preparetd by the Wtgttd eaek'set affecnluu,niti fer the nenneni cene/n//i
nf thte reades ut the teport to which it in attached The desrurnioatrunene ed end the        Y .
heeAoeu sneshon en thos may dt> net ireyty eBn the yarn ut the WewdS Beak and 1fSn~
a Yihitae, any jedgrnant en the legral staten o deny tern*tnry enr any endurnautrent or   
anseyreirnme u' etach duunedae
<-tA   ab0e?sc,a   s-.  4b              io.    soe-                   7d~                                               I R A N
U5.5R    ,  ( .        4<p                       ~~~Dez Irrigation Pro ject Stages Iland II
ue-         y           ,      R               U55R                                    Status of Land Distribution by Production Agencies
- r ,). - -->S                                    r-            _ -       Greater Dez Project boundary              OTHER PRODUCTION AGENCIES:
LEBANON  .inypunstot     .}          *er             AFGHANISTAN         s> ?D ;  Iran AmericanA  luies 20,488 haSfard  6003h
OF EYPTaA"RINI                                     -.                   -.>Gal   Agriu6 bnss,n40ssha
IsALt-f  IAQU  1             a aATA N1                           I1flTT1f                       hamCroalos  188haRvr
_._, _       JRA        N                      _  Brin are            |" wwuw  at  Tr           'i u  Frming                                      Kin0aoland, 537 ha
ISANiDTAN r        ///uI ran
ARAB  tic                                                         California, 0,536 ha                             University, 126 ha             oa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
REPURLIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o O
OF EhPTCAnAN                                                                       all Agrbusnes, 4010ha 
A  OMAN~~~~~~~~~~~3Ot 
enSuaAN              ~~~~ARRAKBiEH                                      z ia            TphuacnAe,I,Oh                        ,-----aod



