RESTRICTED
FILE       COPy                     Report No. P-677
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO IRAN
FOR THE
DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
March 6, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO IRAN
FOR THE DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$30 million to Iran.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1960 the Bank made a loan of US$h2 million (2b7-IRN) to help
finance the Dez Multipurpose Project. Out of this loan about US$hl.3 mil-
lion was used to finance the Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi Dam and associated
hydroelectric works, and the balance of US$700,000 for the Dez Pilot
Irrigation Project (DPIP), consisting of about 20,000 hectares of irrigable
land. At the time of the appraisal of the Dez Multipurpose Project in
1958, it was concluded that the large investment required for developing
the entire area to be irrigated from the Dam (about 100,000 hectares) could
not be justified until experience on a smaller scale had demonstrated that
organizational, administrative and technical problems could be solved and
that the potential benefits could, in fact, be achieved. To this end the
DPIP was started in 1963.
3.        In 1966 the Bank came to the conclusion that sufficient experience
had been gained with the DPIP to warrant proceeding with the preparation
of feasibility studies for the development of the remaining area. In 1967
the Government submitted a study to the Bank and an appraisal was undertaken
in November of that year. After initial investigations it was felt that
further expert examination of the soil conditions was required and mean-
while the appraisal was held in abeyance. The soil experts found that,
although some of the soils have a slow infiltration capacity, they are on
the whole suitable for sustained irrigation. In May 1968, a mission
visited Iran to complete the appraisal of the project.
4.        Loan negotiations with Dr. I. Vahidi, Managing Director of the
Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA), and representatives of the
Plan Organization began on October 21, 1968, but were suspended on
November 5 to permit the Iranian delegation to consult the Government on
a question concerning the area to be set aside for the development by
large-scale mechanized farming through "agribusiness" enterprises as
against development through improved traditional farming, which had origi-
nally been envisaged for almost all of the project area. Further negotia-
tions were held from December 13 to 17 with Dr. Samii, Managing Director of
the Plan Organization, and the Government's agreement to the draft loan
documents was received on January 28.



5.        The proposed loan would be the Bank's twelfth loan to Iran.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Iran as of January
31, 1969:
Amount (US $ million)
Year     No.       Borrower   Purpose                    Bank     Undisbursed
1957     160-IRN   Iran       General development         75.0        -
1959     227       Iran       Road Construction           72.0        _
1959     240       IMDBI      Assist private industry      5.0        -
1960     247       Iran       Dez Multipurpose Project    42.0        -
1964     381       Iran       Road Construction           18.5       b.6
1965     410       Iran       Road Construction          32.0       23.2
1965     11       Iran       Feeder road construction     8.5       .6
1965     422       IMDBI      Assist private industry      9.9       0.1
1966     459       IMDBI      Assist private industry     2h.9       4.6
1967     517       Iran       Ghazvin Project             22.0      20.8
1968     539       IMDBI      Assist private industry     25.0      24.1
Total (less cancellations)       334.8
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and others               116.1
Total now outstanding            218.7
Amount sold      21.9
Of which has
been repaid      19.3               2.6
Total now held by Bank           216.1
Total undisbursed                           82.0
Loan 160-IRN is fully repaid and loans 227-IRN, 240-IRN and 207-IRN are
fully disbursed. Of the undisbursed balance of $82.0 million for the re-
maining loans $32.4 million is for the three road projects made in 196!
and 1965. Disbursements for Loan 381-IRN have been progressing satisfacto-
rily; the Government has, however, requested a postponement of the Closing
Date to allow completion of the construction of the remaining section of
one road which was delayed due to adverse weather conditions. Disbursements
for Loans 410-IRN and b1l-IRN have been slow because of initial delays in
selecting consultants and awarding construction contracts. While the dif-
ficulties have been overcome in the case of Loan hll-IRN, progress with
Loan 410-IRN is still unsatisfactory and the construction work will not
be finished by the present Closing Date of September 1, 1969. If Loan



- 3 -
funds are to be available until the project is completed, the Closing
Date will have to be postponed by at least two years. The Bank has proposed
to the Government that it establish a schedule for the various stages of
construction and has indicated that, unless the progress made until
September 1969 is in accordance with an agreed schedule, the Bank would
find it difficult to consider a postponement of the Closing Date.
6.        A mission visited Iran in November 1968 to appraise the Industrial
and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI) in connection with a possible
fifth loan. The Bank is further considering loans for a second feeder road
project, for the Agricultural Development Fund of Iran (ADFI) and for
education.
7.        The International Finance Corporation has so far invested in two
companies in Iran. In 195c it mrdc a locza of '. 300,000 to SS K21Lhk!shcz
(ceramic tiles) and in February 1969 it invested $800,000 in the equity of
the Ahwaz Steel Mill and at the same time lent the company $3 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:                  Iran
Amount:                    US$30 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:                   To help finance Stage I in the progres-
sive development of water resources and
agriculture in the Dez Irrigation
Project which will eventually cover
about 100,000 hectares of irrigated
land. Stage I is limited to 57,000
hectares including the 20,000 hectares
in the DPIP.
Amortization:              In 20 years, including a six-year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning June 15, 1975
and ending June 15, 1989.
Interest Rate:             6z percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum.



PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Dez Irrigation Project - Stage I" (To 687a)
is attached.
10.       While Iran is rapidly industrializing, agriculture is still the
most important economic sector, representing about 23 percent of gross
national product and employing nearly half of the labor force. The intro-
duction of land reform in 1962 has caused significant changes in the
structure of Iranian agriculture. The first phase of the land reform program
provided for the elimination of single holdings in excess of one village,
the balance to be distributed among the farmers. The second phase was
introduced in early 1965 and aimed at- better tenancy arrangements for the
estimated one million families in the villages retained by landlords.
These two phases have now been virtually completed. Nearly 90 percent of
all landlords now lease their land to farmers for a 30-year period at
fixed cash rentals.  The new arrangements give the farmers an incentive to
improve their lands and increase yields. Agricultural production at present
meets most of Iran's requirements for agricultural commodities, the major
exceptions being sugar, wheat, and vegetable oils. In the future these
requirements will increase with the growth in disposable income and popu-
lation, the latter nowi estimated to grow at about 3 percent per annum.
The Fourth Five-Year Plan, which covers the period from March 1968 to
March 1973, has set a target of 400,000 hectares of irrigated land to be
developed.
11.       The project proposed for Bank financing is Stage I in the progres-
sive development of the Dez Irrigation Project, which will eventually cover
about 100,000 hectares of irrigated land. The project includes the cons-
truction of irrigation and drainage facilities on about 37,000 hectares
and on-farm development on about 57,000 hectares including the 20,000
hectares already under irrigation in the DPIP. It further includes the
procurement of operation and maintenance equipment, a credit program for
the purchase of farm machinery, the establishment of a training center
and supporting agricultural services, and investigation of future sub-
surface drainage requirements, agricultural credit requirements and market-
ing arrangements. An experienced consulting firm has been engaged to super-
vise the construction of the project works and to assist in carrying out
the necessary studies and establishing the supporting services. The project
works are scheduled to be completed by 1974. Full development is expected
to be achieved in five years after the introduction of regulated water
supply for each area and to yield an annual increment in net value of
production of Rls. 850 million ($11.3 million). The estimated economic rate of
return on the project is about 12 percent. In this computation all past ex-
penditures in the DPIP and for the Dam were treated as sunk costs, and the in-
crease in agricultural benefits from the pre-DPIP period to the present were-
similarly disregarded. KWPA has agreed to levy water charges at a level suf-
ficient to recover as much as practicable (without impairing farmers' incen-
tives) of the capital cost of the project in addition to operation and
maintenance cost (Section 5.13 of the Loan Agreement).



12.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project, assuming
development by improved traditional agriculture, amounts to $68.9 million
excluding interest during construction on the loan. The proposed Bank
loan of $30 million would finance the foreign exchange cost of civil
works ($15.2 million), operation and maintenance equipment ($1.8 million),
farm machinery ($2.5 million) and consulting services ($5.1 million) as
well as interest during construction on the loan ($5.4 million). No
retroactive financing is proposed.  Two contracts   for wjork on the
project, totalling $10.9 million, which wsere awarded in 1967 without inter-
national competitive bidding, will not be financed by the proposed loan
but have been included in the project description since they form an
integral part of the project.  The more important of these 6ontr'acts covers the
construction of the re-regulating dam, the diversion dam and part of the
west main canal. Since the original contractors were unable to carry out
the work according to schedule, the contract was transferred in August 1968
to another firm, which is wholly owned by the Yinistry of Water and Power
and appears competent to perform this work.   However, in view of the
importance of this contract for the proper implementation of the project,
it has been agreed that failure to execute the work in accordance with a
timetable agreed upon during negotiations and to standards satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a reason for suspending disbursement of the Loan
(Section 6.02(a) of Loan Agreement).
13.       The Government has decided to stimulate agricultural production
through encouragement of commercial farming, and intends to lease large
tracts of land in the project area to "agribusiness" enterprises to carry
out large-scale mechanized farming. However, it is not possible to fore-
see at this stage how much of the project area will actually be taken up
by such enterprises. In order to ensure that the facilities provided under
the project would be utilized immediately and effectively, the Government
has agreed to limit any development by such enterprises initially to a
maximum of 20,300 hectares in four specific areas of the project. The
Government has further agreed to a time limit for each area after which
alternative arrangements would be made for development by improved
traditional farming, in the event that no proposals from agribusiness
enterprises had been received by these dates. The Government has indicated
that it would wish, in case of the successful development of the 20,300
hectares by agribusiness, to introduce such development to the extent
practicable in other areas ofthe project. The Bank has agreed to reviewJ
with the Government in the first half of 1970 or at another mutually
agreeable time, the progress and prospects for further agribusiness develop-
ment with a view to reaching agreement on its extension within the project
area.



- 6 -
IL.       Agribusiness enterpriseS would carry out on-farm development
and drainage works on their tracts of land with their own resources.
Such works would not be subject to international competitive bidding
and therefore would be ineligible for financing under the loan. Fur-
thermore, to the extent that project lands were taken up by agri-
business enterprises, the project's requirements for consulting
services and for credit for farm machinery would diminish, and the
amounts to be financed under the loan for these purposes would decrease
accordingly. In view of the present uncertainty as to the extent to
which agribusiness will take place, it is not possible to foresee at
this stage how much the amount of the loan might be affected. If all
of the 20,300 hectares were taken up by agribusiness interests the
reduction of the loan might amount to $3.5 million. Development by
agribusiness would increase the econiomic rate of return on the
project, since the areas farmed by agribusiness would reach fUll agri-
cultural development more rapidly than projected for farning by improv<ed
traditional methods. In the absence of reliable estimates of the likely
extent of agribusiness development, the cost of the project has been
estimated on the basis of the whole area being farmed by irproved trad-
itional methods.  After the expiry of the last time limits for the
receipt of agribusiness proposals in 1971 the situation would be reviewed
and the amnount of any reduction in the estimated cost of project would be
considered for possible canecellation from the loan.
15.       The Khuzestan Water and Po-er Authority (KWPA), a regional
agency of the Yinistry of W4ater and Power, would be responsible fcr
irplementation of all project activities.   Even with the substantial
assistance by consultants provided under the loan, implementation of
the project would make heavy demands upon KNPA1s organizatiorn and mana-
gerial capacity.  IE4PA has therefore agreed not to embark upon the dev-
elopment of Stage II of the Droject until, in the opinion of the Torrower
and the Bank, such a step is justified in the light of the progress made
in carrying cut Stage I and of the technical and managerial circumstances
prevailing at the time.
16.       All goods and services financed by the Bank would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding except for consulting
services and for the procurement of some minor items of operation and
maintenance equipment for which such bidding would be costly and in-
efficient. Iranian contractors would participate without preference in
international competitive bidding for civil works contracts.   For equip-
ment ard materials for the project, Iraniar suppLiers wculd be allowed a
15 percer. preference.  Pespecting consulting services ant imported
operation and maintenance equipment, the loan would be disbursed against
foreign exchange payments made or due. For all other project wcrks and
farm machinery disbursement would be as a percentage of expenditure equal
to the agreed estimated foreign exchange component. No withdrawals shall
be made en aecount of disbursements of loans for farm machinery until the



- 7 -
Borrower shall have made arrangements for the provision, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, of agricultural credit to farmers
in the area of the Project.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The Draft Loan Agreement between Iran and the Bank, the Draft
Supplementary Letter on Agribusiness, the Draft Resolution and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The Draft Loan Agreement generally follows the normal pattern
of Bank agreements for this type of project, except for Section 2.03 (c)
(iii) which limits withdrawals on account of disbursements of loans for
farm machinery as explained in paragraph 16 above. The Draft Supplemen-
tary Letter on Agribusiness sets out the arrangements described in para-
graph 13 and 14 above.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       An economic report entitled "The Fourth Development Plan and
the Economic Prospects of Iran" dated February 25, 1969 is being diLstrib-
uted to the Executive Directors separatcly.
19.       In recent years Iran has been able to combine economic expan-
sion with monetary stability. These remarkable developments were brought
about by deliberate policies aiming to speed up the investment rate and to
lay the foundations of future growth. The objectives of the Fourth Plan
for 1968 to 1973 with respect to investment, production and income are
perhaps too ambitious but there is little doubt that recent favorable
trends will be maintained if petroleum revenues continue to grow rapidly.
The main constraints to future investment are likely to be of a financial
nature. Even if fiscal policy is tightened and the rate of saving is
substantially improved, Iran will have to rely heavily on foreign capital.
Its foreign commitments will sharply increase from a comfortable position
in 1968. The debt burden may rise to 18 percent of export earnings in
1972, but the main impact of future borrowing .is. likely to be felt in the
period after 1972. Iran's creditworthiness depends, at least in part, on
the prospects of the economy especially for the expansion of oil in the
1970's. While these prospects are uncertain at this stage, Iran is con-
sidered creditworthy for further borrowing, including the proposed loan.



- 8 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington D.C.
March 6, 1969



