                                                                  100037


                                                      022-ctS.
                                                      -,_\-ll:l
                                                  [
                                                      ~----




                                  IRAN
                            COMPLETION REPORT

                      DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT


                             Loan 594-IRN




                              June   29~   1979




Agriculture Division IV
EMENA Projects Department
               ABBREVIATIONS


KWPA   Khuzestan.Water and Power Authority

DRC    Development and Resources Corporation
                                                                                                                                          .


                                PROJECT . COMPLETION . REPORT                     ._ , . ·


                    -IRAN:   DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN) _                           .·   .
                                                                                                ·.···

                                                                                                                          .·--· . .   '
                                   Basic Data Sheet


           Item                          .   :   ... ·                 _App.raisa1·                Actual or _
                                                                    - Expectation            · - Current Estimate

                                                                                                        _-.   -a/_·--··
     · Total Project Cost (US$' million).                                   74. 30.                 11 •. oo=
        . Underrun or Overrun (%)                                                                  _+4 af
       Loan Amount (US$ million)                                                                    30 ~oo·
          Disbursed                                                                            22,514, 154.74
          Cancelled                                                                             7,485,845.26
          Repaid to
          Outstanding: to
       Date Physical CoIIIPonents.Completed                         Dec. 1974                   June--1977
       Proportion Completed by Above. Date(%)                          100                         100
       Proportion of Time Underrun. or Overrun(%)                                                       +45
       Economic Rate of Return. (%)                                    10/l;b/                  Negative
       Institutional Performance.                                       good                     poor


                                   Other Project: Data-

                                                         Original     1-----:--------~--'--__ Actual: or
                                                                      1
                                                          Plan·           Re'Visfons-"~ --Est~ Actual


     First. Mention. in. Files or Timetable.                           8/19/57
     Government's· Application                                         9/07/66
     Negotiations                           10/2~/6#./ 1/28/69         1/28/69;
     Board Approval                                      3/18/69       3/18/69-·
~-   Loan Agreement Date                                 4/18/69       4/18/69:
     Effectiveness Date                                  7/21/69       8/11/69.-
     Closing Date                          12/31/74     10/14/77      10/14/77
0
     Borrower · ·                          Government of Iran
     Executing A$ency                      Khuzestan Water and Power Authority(KWPA)
     Fiscal Year of B.orrower              March 21,. 1977 to March 20, 1978
     Follow-on ProjectName                               none·



     a/ Does not represent true picture on overall basis as there· was: a_ cost over-
         run- of 25% on project works which- was partly offset by savings on· ·other
         categories. US$ equivalent takes into_ account. rates- of exchange during
         each~year of implementation.
     b/' With and without accounting for previous investments. · -
     c/ Negotiations. commenced on 10/21/68 but were adjourned on 11/.5/68 due to
         disagreement. on certain issues..                                                                                                ,
                                                                i
                               PROJECT COMPLETION: REPORT1
                                                                1'
                                                                I ,
                 IRAN:·     DEZ·· IRRIGATION ·PROJECT' (LOAN 5 94-IRN).


                                       Mission Data


Item·                     Month,·       Number             Nmn'ber           Manweeks                       Date of
                           Year       of weeks·'        of Persons                                          R.eEort
                                                   .,                                 ··- .


Identificatio.n. -------:-------"'.'"---Repeateri P roJe ct~-:...-~-------.-------
                                                                           ',,   '•
                                                                                                   '
Preparatfon               11/67 '        5                 4                '.
                                                                                      •'16.                 12/67 '

P.reappraisal              2/68'.        4                ·6                              20                 2/68

Appraisal                  5/68          4                 4                             15                  3/69


     Total                              13:                                              51

Supervision

r                          4/69          3'               2                                   6             6/18/69

II                        11/69          3                3                                   9             1/8/70

III                        5/70          3'               2                                   6             5/20/70~

IV                         9/70,         L                2>                                  2         10/21/70

v                          2/71          2                1                                   2.            4/22/71

VI                        11/7L          I.               3                                   3,            2/10/72,

VII                        2/73'         LS               2·                                  3        ,,
                                                                                                            4/13/73

VIII                       1/74          1.5              2                                   3             3/61/74

IX                        10/74          2                3                                   6·        11/20/74

x·                        11/75          l,               1                                   1        12/10/75

XI                         6/76          2                3                                   6             6/13/76

n1                        11/76          2'               2.                                  4,       12/13/76

Completibn                 6/77          5                2                             10


                                        28·                                              61

                                  Country Exchange Rates,
Name~   of Currency··                   Rials(Rls)
Year:
    Appraisal Year Average                    Exchange rate:         US$1 =Rials. 75.75
    Intervening Years Average                                        US$l = Rials 71.85
    Completion Year Average                                          US $1 = Rials 70 • 63',
                                                      PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                IRAN: · DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT.·
                                                        (Loan 594-IRN)


                                                            Table of Contents


                                                                                                                      Page No •.

     BASIC DATA SHEET
!J                                                                                                        •·
     I •.          INTRODUCTION            ........... •· ....... •· .............. .. •· ... .      •·                  1

ii   II.           BACKGROUND. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •.• • • • • • • • • • •      3·

     III •.        PROJECT· F.ORMULATION.· •••••••.••.•••.• •·•·•·•·• • • • • • •. • • •. • • • •.• •.                   5

     IV.           CHANGE OF DEVELOPMENT' ·PATTERN· • •.• •.•.•••••••• •.• •.• •.• • • • •.                              8

     v.            PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION ••••••••••• •·•·•·•·•... •.• • • • •. • • •.•.                               10

     VI.           ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT • • • •. •.• • • •.•.• • •.• •. • •. •. •. •. •. • • •.•                 12

     vir ..        ECONOMIC:. AND: SOCIAL. IMPACT •••.•.•.•.••.•.•.•.•.•••••.•.•. "'. •. •. • • •                       15

     VIII.         ECONOMIC AND' FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

     Ix ..         BANK AND CONSULTANT. PERFORMANCE' .........................,. •.                                     26

                   CONCLUSIONp· · •.••.•        ·~·   •·•··•- •.•.••.• ,...................................... .        29'

     ANNEXES.

             1 •. ·Description of the Project

             2.    Construction Schedule

             3..   Stage I; Cost Estimates·

             4.    Stage I, Allocation of Proceeds

            5.     Schedule· of Disbursements

            6"'    Agribusiness Cropping. Patterns in 1977

            7.     Iran Shellcott Budget 1978

            8 •. Farm. Corporations

     MAP




                                                                       .   '   ~.   .
                             I.   INTRODUCTION


1.01      The Government of Iran requested in the late 1950s a loan from the
Bank for the development of the Khuzestan area in the southwest of Iran. The
area is bordered by Iraq to the west and the Persian Gulf to the south, and
contains the oil fields of Ahwaz and the oil refinery of .Abadan (see Map).
The Dez Irrigation area is located in the upper Khuzestan on both banks of
the Dez river, about 120 km north of Ah.waz and has about 125,000 ha..!./ of
irrigable land. The area has an assured water supply of satisfactory quality;
the topography and soils are suitable for irrigation. A main line railroad
and a national highway connecting the country's principal ports with Tehran,
run through the project area.

1.02      The climate is arid, very hot in summer, with mean daily temperatures
exceeding 40°C for four consecutive months, and cool in winter, with occasional
light frosts. Rainfall is highly erratic. Out of an average annual rainfall
at Dezful of 290 mm and at Safiabad of 267 mm only 150 mm of annual winter
rainfall is effective for crop growth. As a result of high temperatures and
low humidity, crop irrigation requirements are among the highest in the world.

1.03      In 1967, the total population in the project area was estim~ted at
130,000 with 92,000 living in the towns of Dezful, Andimeshk and Shush and
38,000 in 186 villages in the rural areas. Rural population density was low,
averaging about 45 persons· per km.2 but varying considerably with the location
of dependable water supplies. After the initial phases of the land refprm in
the 1960s about 80% of the lands in the project area were worked by farmers on
a 30 year lease. Village lands were farmed continually by the tenants. Main
winter crops were wheat and barley and main summer crops rice, sesame .and .
vegetables. Crop yields were low basically due to inadequate moisture through-
out the year; even under traditional irrigation systems, however, insufficient
use of modern inputs and outmoded methods of production kept yields in the
project area at low levels. Sheep husbandry was extensive and more important
than cattle husbandry.

1.04      The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (KWPA), a regional develop-
ment agency with wide powers, was established in 1960 with authority over
the total pr6j ect which, in its several phases, covers the entire gamut of
facilities from the dam to conveyance systems and water management. The first
phase of this, the Dez Multi-purpose Project (DMP), for which the Bank .made a
loan of US $42 million in 1960 (247-IRN), consisted of the construction of the
190 meter high Pahlavi dam in the Dez River gorge north of Dezful, a rese·rvoir
with a total capacity of approximately 3,315 million cubic meters, as well as



l/   The total irrigation area· is variously estimated at 105, 000 to 125, 000
     ha gross and at 94,000 ha net. This was divided into the 10,000 ha sugar
     plantation of Haft Tapeh, and the 84,000 ha of the Dez Irrigation Project.
                                       - 2 -


    a power house and associated transmission facilities. It also included a
    pilot irrigation scheme on 20,000 hectares, the first step in the overall
    irrigation plan for the Dez area. The pilot irrigation scheme covered the
    Safiabad Research Station as well as extension, credit, marketing and mechan-
    ization,· demonstration and repair services provided by KWPA.

    1.05      Although water deliveries to some of the pilot irrigation areas com-
    menced in late 1963, construction of the main distribution system was completed
    only in 1966, two years behind schedule. Land leveling and the re-alignment,
0
    improvement and construction of farm irrigation channels, which were to be the
    responsibility of the land owners with technical assistance provided by consul-
    tants under the project, were delayed due to changes brought about by the land
    reform program in the 1960s. By 1968 only 1,500 hectares had been improved.
    However, the effective implementation of the other elements of the pilot irri-
    gation scheme, the Safiabad Research Station and the extension and credit
    services, resulted in substantial increases in production and in the incomes
    of the 1,700 farmers in the pilot area.                                ·

     1.06      The next phase in the development of the project area, which came
     to be called Stage I, included the construction of a re-regulating dam and a
     diversion dam near Dezful with canals, drains, irrigation distribution systems,
    ·flood protection works and maintenance roads to serve an additional 37,000
     hectares. The Bank made a loan of US$30 million for the Stage I Project in
     1969 (594-IRN) (see Annex I). The loan also provided for the on-farm develop-
     ment of the 20,000 hectares of the pilot area and for 37,000 hectares of new
     area, a total of 57, 000 hectares including service buildings and facilities,
     farm machinery and equipment, credit and training services.

    1.07      In early 1972, the Bank appraised what was called Stage II of the
    total project area. This was envisaged as a project to provide irrigation to
    the remaining 27,000 ha not covered under other projects, thus fully utilizing
    the irrigation water resources of the Pahlavi dam. It was to consist of irri-
    gation and drainage systems, flood protection, on-farm development, roads and
    bridges. It was also to include supporting agricultural services, particu-
    larly research and extension services for indigenous farmers. About 80% of
    the Stage II project area was to be developed by two largely foreign-owned
    agribusinesses which would finance all on-farm development on their lands
    but on-farm development in the indigenous farming sector would be financed
    by the project. Lqan negotiations on the Stage II project were suspended in
    June 1972 because of disagreements between the Bank and Iran on social.aspects
    of project implementation. The Iranian government subsequently financed Stage
    II from its own resources.

    1.08      Finally, in 1972 the International Finance Corporation approved a
    loan of US$ l. 25 million for one of the agribusinesses involved in the project
    area. The loan was never disbursed because the agribusiness firm could not
    meet the conditions of loan effectiveness• The agribusinesses in the project
    area were partly financed later on with Bank funds through two of the three
    loans to what came to be called the Agricultural Development Bank of Iran
    (Loans 662-IRN, 821-IRN but not through 1040-IRN).
                                                                               /
                                                                               '



                                           -·3 -


    l.09      This Project Completion Report relates. specifically to Loan 594~IRN.
    which helped finance· Stage I. .However the Stage. I project was. but a phase in
    the progressive development ot the Khuzestan- area. and can be understood only·
    in the context of the overall development. This report therefore makes exten-
    sive reference to all aspects in its effort to comprehend the results of irri:--
    gation development in the Khuzestan area.                      ·

      1.10      The- mission consulted. the extensive Bank files and studies prepared·
      by the Development and.Resources-Corporation (DRC),- the-US consulting firm       .
     which played a. decisiverolein-promoting area development. Valuable sources
      on DRC are the "Journals"· in 6 volumes by David Lilienthal,. :ORC 's founder and
      longtime chairman. The: Khuzestan.Water and Power Authority had agreed to
.   _ present its views on project.. implementation but in the event its. report was
     never prepared •. As a· result KWPA's. v-iews are only indirectly reflected. in
      this completion report. Comments of the Bank staff involved in project.
     preparation and implementation helped. in. shedding light on certain events.


                                     II.   BACKGROUND


    The Dez Multipurpose Project

    2.01       In. 1956, the: Iranian Plan Organization invited the -then. recently
    founded Development~ and·. Resources Corporation- (DRC}- to assist the• Government
    in its efforts ·to develop the- Khuzesta1r region. From. the start. the Plan
    Organization agreed. with DRC that. the development: of the· Khuzestan area should
    be modeled on the experience. of the Tennessee Valley Authority in the USA.
    This implied an initial heavy public investment in infrastructure foliowed by
    the opening up of the area to private- investment leading eventually to: sus-
    tained. economic and social development. The basic agreement on this concept
    by the Borrower and its consultants led. to a series of confrontations with the
    Bank in~ the late 1950s on the scope and the nature· of. the Khuzestan development.

    2.02       In 1957, · DRC acting on behalf of the> Plan. Organization., submitted to
    the Bank a proposal to develop the Khuzestan Area. through an irrigation scheme
    including a thin concrete arch( dam 190 m. high; creating a reservoir of 3,315
    million cubic meter.s, an underground power house·,_ canals and distribution
    works to irrigate a gross area of. 110,000 ha •. and· to produce initially 130 MW
    of power. The Bank_ found the proposed project too big, too expensive. and.
    beyond Iran's administrative capacity. It. argued that the need. for the pro-
    posed project had not been established beyond doubt and that the anticipated
    costs by far outweighed the benefits likely to be achieved. The Bank,, ·there-
    fore, commissioned Stone & Webster Service Corporation· to study the investment
    and. operating costs of -thermal. alternatives.. Th_e study indicated that power
    would be generated more cheaply and.more efficiently in. thermal. plants burning
    waste gas. The Bank was also convinced that pump irrigation should be tried
    in the first place· to gain experience in small, areas before embarking on a
    ma:jor project. The thermal plant and. the pump irrigation schemes would.
    satisfy the same- power_ and irrigation needs during- the- first 6-10 years_ as the·
                                   --4- -


hydropower scheme at a. considerably lower total expense. The Bank.suggested
that the hydropower scheme should be built only after its need had been
established with more· certainty •.

2.03       There then followed three: years of complex negotiation between the-·
Bank on. the one· hand and DRC and the·· Government on the other.. At_ first, DRC
threatened to withdraw if. their proposal were_ rejected but this· did' not move
the Bank to change: its mind. . DRC then· persuaded the Government to start
preparatory work on their overall project without consulting the Bank~. As a
result,. US$15 million were spent on preliminary works -for the Pahlavi. storage
dam. The Bank was then asked to review the project once· again. Since the
US$15 million already invested would. be wasted i f the Bank's original proposal
for a_ thermal power plant supplying pump irrigation schemes were implemented,
the Bank had to treat· this amount as sunk cost. When it did this, the· cost
comparison of the. two schemes came out about even. Despite this the_ Bank was
still unwilling to finance· a . single project that. covered the construction· of
the Pahlavi dam and the total development of the irrigated area, regarding it
as administratively and technically unmanageable •. After prolonged negotia-
tion, it was agreed that initial irrigation_ development would be confined to a
20, 000 ha pilot scheme. On this basis,, the. Bank made a loan of- $42 million in
1960 (247-IRN).

2. 04      The experience_ from· the pilot irrigation, scheme brought out the
difficulties involved in developing. the project area. A Bank supervision
mission in- 1966 reported that, due' to land reform implementation, cooperation
between landowners and tenants had suffered.- As. a· result: on-farm development
had affected only 2%~and leveling only 7%. of the project area. Traditional
crop and cropping patterns still prevailed. KWPA's field trial farm had been
testing a wide range of new high value crops but few marketing studies and no
economic assessment· had been made. The-mission found that costs of irrigation
infrastructure and on-farm development were too high for the kind. of crops
grown, due largely to over-design oE the irrigation facilities.

2~05      Despite all these difficulties- and problems, the supervision mission
also made encouraging findings.. In the. first place, it found. that the'
results-in the pilot area were largely positive. The gross value of production
(at constant prices) had risen about two: and a half times above the preproj ect ·
level. Although these results had fallen· short of the targets set in.the
appraisal report, they were considered as- a. good achievement in view of the
difficulties resulting from land reform and .delays in the completion of land
levelling and the irrigation distribution system. Secondly, KWPA .had created
an excellent organization through which new services (improved farming prac-
tices, better seeds,. chemical. fertilizers, pesticides, mechanization, better
irrigation methods, supervised credit) had been extended to a large proportion
of the primitive farm community within a short period of time.

2.06      The- information and experience gained. from Loan 24T-IRN was in the
mission's view sufficient to form the-basis for a. feasibility study for the
next stage of the irrigation command. It believed that traditional agricul-
ture could be made profitable by reducing investment costs per hectare through
a less elaborate design (smaller canals, less- precise land leveling) and by
increasing benefits.through the introduction of high value crops.
                                       - 5. -·


                           . III.   PROJECT. FORMULATION


Consultants' and Borrower's Concept.


 ·3·. 01      At about the same, time as: the Bank supervision mission was conclud-
  ing that the results gained in the pilot: area· showed. that it was feasible
  to improve trad~tional agriculture, the consultants. were ·proposing (November
. 1966)· that. the project. area should. be developed through large scale mechanized
  farming. l/ In line with this concept, the consultants' draft feasibility
  report dated May 1967 recommended that the project area should. be developed
  through large.:...scale farming, implying· disposession, .removal and rese.ttlement
 of local populations. To attract foreign investors and because of the lack of
 proven. crops, the consultants. designed ·their. irrigation system in such a way
 as to allow complete flexibility.for any cropping pattern.

3.02       It seems probable that the consultants used the experience from the
establishment and operation of the HaftTapeh Sugar Plantation to the south of
the project area as a basis for their recommendation.. If Haft Tapeh served as
a model. it was not an appropriate one for two· reasons: In the first place,.
Haft Tapeh was a plantation scheme based on monoculture. As such it could not.
provide any guidance for multiple cropping ventures·. Secondly,. if Ha1;t Tapeh
was a: technical success demonstrated by its relatively high yields, it was not
at the time shown to be profitable. It: could., therefore,. not· serve as conclu-
sive evidence· for the potential success of profit-oriented agribusines13es.
Haft Tapeh must, nevertheless, have served. as a model. at least as far· as
social aspects.are concerned:   the labor centers which were to be established
for farmers in the project area were' probably modeled on plantation-type labor·
camps.

3.03       Despite the lack of hard evidence pointing to a possible success of
large-scale mechanized farming, the Iranian Government accepted the consul-
tants' views and. created, before· and during project appraisal,. the legal
framework for the implementation of. these ideas. The Law for the Formation of
Farm Corporations 2/ (for local farmers) was. passed. on January 16, 1968 and
the, Law for the Establishment of Companies (agribusinesses) for the· Develop-
ment and Utilization of Lands Downstream of Dam· (with domestic and/or foreign
capital),. was approved on May 27; 1968. Agribusiness units were to be· not
less than 5,000 ha. With these laws the Government set the stage for large-
scale mechanized farming in the project· area.




l/      See David Lihenthal's. "Journals", Volume 6, page 326.

1:../   Joint stock companies to which all categories of farmers could turn over
        their agricultural assets in exchange for shares (see para~ T.19).
                                          - 6 -

      Appraisal

      3.04       By the end of ·1966, on the basis of the experience gained in the
      pilot irrigation. scheme, the Bank. was. prepared to appraise a project for the
      improvement· of traditional agriculture.. Bank miSsions were of the belief that
      connnercial firms would not be interested in develo.ping. the project. area and
      envisaged. that. traditional farming could be improved in line with the expe- .
      rience gained iD. the.· pilot irrigation area. The Bank. was disturbed by.. the
      social and economic: implications of agribusiness. development which. it believed
"     would lead to eventual. removal and resettlement of a large part of the· local
      population. In addition, experience had shown that the improvement of tradi-
      tional agriculture did not require such a. sophisticated irrigation system as
      enviSaged by the consultants and that investment costs per hectare could
      therefore be reduced •. Finally, since it thought KWPA.'s. management capability
      to be limited, the Bank favored. a two stage development of the project· area
      with the proposed Stage I loan being limited. to the development of only
      57,000·ha.

        3. 05      The third: appraisal mission 1.1 (April/May 1968) was undertaken to
        persuade Government authorities to accept the Bank's view. On the fa~.e of it,
        the mission. was successful since the project: agreed upon.with· the Iranian
        Government was essentially a smallholder. project in line with the experience.
        gained in the pilot irrigation·. area. Only 3, 800 ha were set aside. for eventual
        connnercial develo.pment: through agribusiness. firms •. , On the: other hand, the
        consultants/Government succeeded in convincing the Bank.mission that the
    · . proposed irrigation system was· neither over-designed nor "gold plated".

      Negotiations

      3.06      The Iranian Government approached loan negotiations with a firm
      determination backed by appropriate legislation (see para 3. 03 )· to develop the
      Khuzestan Area through. large-scale mechanized farming. It had also during
      appraisal agreed with Bank missions to develop. the same area through improved
      traditional farming except for· 3, 800 ha to be set aside for agribusiness
      ventures. In hindsight, the Government's connnitment to improved traditional
      farming appears as a tactical move only.                     ·

      3.07      Not surprisingly the· major. issue at negotiations, which began on
      October 21, 1968, was the area to be set aside for large-scale farming •.
      Despite agreements on approved traditional farming reached during appraisal
      between Iranian officials and Bank staff, the Iranian delegation requested
      full flexibility to allocate to agribusiness enterprises any part of the
      area up to the total .of 57 ,000 ha--the. then foreseen project area-.;.-.if a
      sufficient number of applicants came forward. Full flexibility in land
      allocation was unacceptable to the Bank for two reasons: (1) the Bank did



     ll    The first. two missions were essentially concerned. with soil and drainage
           problems•
                                    -· T-


·not believe that enough agribusinesses would sign up in time ·to begin farm-·
 ing operations when irrigation water. was. available; (2) the project had been
 appraised and presented as one for peasant farmers.. If. it were now to be
 turned into a large-scale far"!lling· project, it would have to be. redesigned,
 recosted· and reappraised, leading to certain delays .in processing. the loan
 and in implementing. the project •. l/ The Bank's refusal of full flexibility
 led the Iranian. negotiators to adjourn negotiations on November 5, 1968.

3. 08.    A compromise, putting a limit of 20, 300 ha on· the land to be allo-
cated to agribusinesses, was finally'agreed. upon on January 28, 1969. Under
this compromise no agreement with an agribusiness firm· was to be made without
prior consultation with the Bank on the terms and conditions of the proposals.
Safeguards were added to ensure that the plans for the utilization of land
would be ready by the time water became available. In addition, areas ini-
tially allocated to agribusiness were to revert to improved traditional
agriculture should firm agribusiness. proposals not materialize. by specific
cut-off dates. Finally, after. about one year (by mid 1970) ,. the progress made
and the prospects for further agribusiness: development were to be reviewed by
the Borrower and the Bank, and the· arrangements. for agribusinesses would
be amended if warranted.

The Project

3 •. 09    The project: approved· by the Bank (Loan 594-IRN) on·. March 18, 1969;
covered 57,000 ·ha. It. consisted of the construction of irrigation and drain-·
age facilities on about 37,000 ha of newly irrigated lands and of on-farm
development· on both this area and on the 20,000 ha already under irrig;3.tion
in the pilot irrigation area. Of this 20,300 ha. could. be developed by agri-
business and. 36, 700 ha by traditional agriculture. It included procurement of
operation and maintenance equipment, a credit program for the purchase of.farm
machinery by indigenous farmers, establishment of supporting agricultural
services, and the investigation of agricultural credit requirements- and
marketing arrangements. (Details are·. described. in Annex 1.) The project also
included the construction· of control gates, a reregulating dam, a diversion
dam and the West Main canal.. Contracts for the construction of the latter
items had already been awarded in 1967 without recourse to ICB, so they were
not eligible for financing under the loan. Since an expansion of the project
area be;yond the proposed 57, 000 ha (Stage I) would. have seriously overburdened
KWPA's organizational and managerial capacity, the Government and the Bank
agreed that the development of Stage II would have to wait until it was
justified in the light of the progress made under Stage I.




l/   Memorandum to Loan Committee of. 3/5/69.
                                     - 8 -


                     IV.   CHANGE OF DEVELOPMENT PATTERN


 Smallholder Agriculture versus Large Scale Mechanized Farming-Extension
 of Agribusiness Area

 4.01       The· history of. project implementation shows how. the Borrower suc-
 ceeded. in persuading the Bank that. large scal'e mechanized farming--commercial
 and cooperative--should be, used in: the, entire: project area and how, as a.
 result, the Bank progressively moved away from smallholder development·.
 While the loan documents reflect the Bank's views on agricultural development
 the Borrower did: not long adhere to them. Only a few weeks after. the loan had
 been approved, it informed the Bank that. the letters of intent had been signed
 with agribusinesses for more than 55,000 ha (39,000 ha in Stage I and 16,000
 ha in Stage II lands) and. that. LT, 000 ha had been. allocated to farm corpora-
 tions.

  4.02       Since this was not in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
  Agreement, a supervision mission which visited Iran. in November 1969 recom-
  mended suspension of disbursements until the Borrower had explained and the
  Bank accepted the proposed changes. Bank management did not adopt this
  recommendation for reasons not specified within the available files. ll After
  a project review mission' had. visited· the. project area in May 1970, a new
  agreement was reached and, formalized in. the, supplemental letter dated. May 10,
  1971.. The Bank accepted ·the, extension of. the agribusiness area from 20, 300 ha
. to 45, 000 ha but insisted. that 10, 000 ha. should be. reserved for improved
  traditional. farming and 2, 000 ha for Farm Corporations (see Annex 8). The
  Borrower. agreed not to proceed with the development of Farm Corporations
  unless the Bank had approved the schedule of development.

Extension of Farm Corporation Areas

4.03      After having obtained. the extension of the agribusiness areas, the
Borrower set out to increase the Farm Corporation areas from 2,000 to 12,000
ha contrary to the supplemental l'etter of May· 10, 1971. This. was brought to
the Bank's attention for the first time in June 1972 during the abortive loan
negotiations for the· Stage II project, but it was only in early 1973 that a
supervision mission of. the Stage. I project. took account of the ongoing Farm
Corporation development and again· recommended suspension or. cancellation of
the loan. Following assurances from, senior Government officials, the Bank
requested the Borrower instead to write to the Bank describing and justifying
what it now planned to do and suggesting what changes should. be made to the
letter of May 10, 1971. 1/ The Government informed the· Bank formally on
September 15, 1973 that it had determined that it would serve farmers in the



ll    'rhe loan amount was reduced· later· on at the Borrower's· request (see
      para •. 5 •. 05).

11    ·The loan amount was,. however, reduced twice at.the· Borrower's request
       (see paras. · 5. 05 and Annex 4).
                                    -9 -


proJect. ar.ea more expeditiously through Farm Corporations rather than through
improved traditional farming and, . for that reason,. had allocated· 12·, 000 ha of
the land in. the Stage I project area. to Farm· Corporations. The Bank. consulted.
its Agricultural and. Rural Development Advisory Mission (ARD.AM) l/ in Iran on
the response to be given. ARD.AM was of the view that Jl'armCorporations were
preferable to· agribusiness ventures since they did not involve removal, and·
resettlement o.f the rural. population and that· they deserved a- chance to prove
their advantages over agribusinesses. In a letter of April 3, 1974 to the
Borrower, .. the Bank agreed to the area allocation to Farm Corporations within
the. Stage· I project area.

Meaning for the Bank

4.04       The change of the. Stage I. project from a smallholder development
project. into a large scale mechanized farming project, .. actively sought by the
Borrower and its consultants and finally conceded by the. Bank, . amounted to a
highly significant change in the project description contained in the loan.
documents· 11 I t made irrelevant essential provisions in the project descrip-
tion (Schedule 3 of Loan Agreement) explicitly designed to meet the needs of
the· small traditional farmer on the basis of the experience gained in the
original pilot irrigation. scheme. These provisions included the need for (1)
on-farm-development; (2) agricultural credit. services to farmers for the
purcha:se of· agricultural. equipment; (3} training for. farmers; (4) marketing
and agricultural credit studies; (5) an agricultural service department within
KWPA; and (6) land redistribution, consolidation and. settlement programs.
With its letter of April 3, 1974 the. Bank conceded in effect that its efforts
to influence the outcome of agricultural development in the project area in a
certain manner had not succeeded. From· then on, the. Bank's· efforts were
limited to ensuring an orderly implementation of irrigation infrastructure·
facilities. It should be noted in this context that following the October
1973 oil price increases and the resulting quantum jump in revenues in Iran,
many development projects proceeded with focus. only. on physical targets.




l.I   ARD.AM was established on March 1,. 1973·,. in Iran at. the specific request
      of the highest levels of Government, for advice on agricultural develop-
      ment policy.

11    Relevant sections in the Loan Agreement appear to leave the Borrower with
      great freedom to increase the area under agribusinesses. While· Section
      5.14 of the Loan Agreement states "No part of the. Project shall. be devel-
      oped by vertically integrated commercial enterprises (agri-businesses)
      except to the extent that such development •··· is consistent with the
      obligation of the Borrower under Section 5. 01 (a)-;" Section 5. 01 (a)
      merely says that· "The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due
      diligence and efficiency and _in conformity· with sound· agricultural,
      engineering, economic. and financial policies and practices.• "
                                     -. 10. -·


                          v.   .PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION·


5.01      Loan 594-IRNwas declared effective on August 8, 1969, three weeks
after the original date and after conditions for appointment. of consultants .
had been met •.

Implementation Schedule

5.02       Project works were built through. four civil. works contracts none of
which were carried out on schedule (see Annex 2) but only the delays in
contract GD 107 resulted in cost overruns. Contract GD 107, which covered
about 70% of the project area, had been awarded with a delay of 15 months to
an Iranian contractor at a bid price 20% below the engineer'·s estimate~ The
contractor carried out in the initial two years some 70% of the contracted work,
but made very little progress between 1973 and 1976 .due to financial diffi-
culties which stemmed. from national and international cost inflation.. Since
the· contract was a fixed price contract, time-consuming Government clearances
had to be obtained before a contract supple¥nt covering price increases was
approved in June 1976 •. Nevertheless, the contract and the project infrastruc-
ture were completed in June 1977, two and a. half years behind schedule· and
after three postponements of the closing date. Project works were built to
meet. high standards in line with appraisal estimates·.

5.03      Major. works built under the project. are the reregulating dam~. the
diversion dam. and networks of canals, roads and drains with all auxiliary
works.. The reregulating dam is a concrete· structure 20 m high and 136. ·m long
with a capacity of approximately 14million m3 capacity. The diversion dam
has a 394 m uncontrolled spillway of. typical ogee section, 4 · m high with
radial gated sluiceways and canal headworks on the. right· and left banks. The·
other facilities consist of 96 km· of main and secondary canals, 251 km.of
laterals, 33 km of asphalt road with a bridge· over the Dez river, 166 km of
gravel roads and 232 km of. drains. The major auxiliary works constructed are
742· culverts, 111 check structures, 49 drop· structures, 54 siphons, 31 check
siphons and some 2,250 turnouts. Three pumping stations.including 20 units
with a total capacity of 7.2 m.3 per second were built for areas not served by
gravity irrigation •.

Project Costs

5 •. 04    The actual costs converted to US$ equivalent at the rate of exchange
prevailing during each year of implementation are compared in Annex 3 to costs
estimated at appraisal stage. On an overall basis the actual costs roseby
4%: from the original estimate of US$ 74.30 million. to US$ 77.00 million. This
comparison, however, does not reflect the true picture since a greater part of
the cost overrun on Categories I and· III was offset. by savings. resulting from
Categories II, V and VII.. If only comparable categories are compared, the cost
increase was about 22%. The combined Categories I and.III experienced a cost
overrun of. about 25% or US$10. 78 million over the original estimate~ about 80%
of which is due to an increase in the cost of GD 107 as a result of inflation •.
If contract. GD 107 had been carried out within the appraisal time schedule,. it
is likely that the-actual costs would have: remained within the· limits of the
appraisal cost estimate with a level of contingencies_ of 10% on contract GD
102 and 20% on all other works. Given the above cost overruns the cost of
construction of infrastructure facilities per hectare works out. to a seemingly
reasonable US$ 1,.300. It compares. to an estimated. cost of about. US$650 per
hectare for the pilot irrigation scheme. Since this was completed sev:en years
earlier, a period which had seen a. considerable- inflation in costs .(again
especially after October 1973); it can be. concluded that the capital costs of
the project were not excessive, although. the Bank's endeavor to persuacie the
Government to simplify the irrigation design so as to reduce costs was not
very successful.

Revision in Loan Proceeds

5. 05     The loan .amount was r.educed twice at the Borrower's request from
US$30 million to US$ 23 million (see Annex 4). Some revision, if not the
total amount, was anticipated as early as loan negotiations when the intention
of the Borrower to introduce agribusiness ventures in the project area. became
clear. Since agribusiness firms did not wish to use international competitive
bidding for land leveling contracts.and did not qualify for. machinery loans,
the need for funds under Categories I and. II decreased. Finally, in October
1976, Category VI funds were reallocated to Category IV to meet increased.
costs of consulting services.

Procurement:

5.06       Procurement was. arranged. in accordance with the Bank procedures for
international competitive bidding. The response for civil works contr~cts
from· prequalified. contractors was competitive.· Civil works contractors
reportedly ran into difficulties in· obtaining i.mport permits for materials or
equipment manufactured and assembled in Irari.. As contract documents did not
mention such restrictions,. the Bank pointed out this anomaly and requested the
Borrower to remedy the situation, and made i t clear that any claims arising
from these restrictions would not be eligible for reimbursement. O&M equip-
ment was mostly supplied through local agents of foreign manufacturers. The
total. value of the contracts, exclusive· of O&M equipment was US$45. 8 million •.

Disbursements

5.07      The delay in project completion and the reduction. in the total loan
amount led to delays in disbursement of the. remaining loan funds ('see Annex.
5).   Further withdrawal delays-were due to financial arrangements between
KWPA and its contractors. KWPA had to pay its contractors within 30 days
after presentation of monthly bills. The payment period was too short to
obtain payment from the Bank and KWPA had to prefinance the contractors'
claims. Since local' funds could .be made available to this effect, KWPA
did not feel pressed to turn to the Bank. for reimbursement. In fact, from
1974 onward, KWPA neglected to submit withdrawal applications for some minor
contracts, despite the Bank's frequent reminders •.
 Construction Supervision

  5. 08      The consultants' des.igns are generally acceptable except for the
  delivery 'capacity of the distribution .system. ·Although a subject of repeated.
  discussion from the earliest days, the actual system as finally implemented
  rema:ined in the Bank's view excessively complex •. It has become a major cause
  of the high maintenance costs of the project. The· consultants' performance in
. construction supervision is commendable .• · They prepared. an excellent operation
  and.maintenance manual but did not make a sufficient attempt to train local
  personnel in. understanding the need for and.in carrying out operation and
  maintenance works. DRC staff. worked as an integral part of the overall
  project team and maintained good relations with local staff.

 Accounting, Auditing, Reporting

, 5 • 09    The Borrower was to provide to . the Bank financial, audit and
  quarterly progress reports. The financial reports were to report the results
  of a cost accounting system the objectives of which had not been specified in
  the appraisal report. KWPA furnished from March 1970 to August 1973 ten such
  reports covering from one to six months. Bank staff did not succeed in
  extracting useful information from these reports which were thought to dup-
  licate annual audit reports and. quarterly progress reports. KWPA ceased
  supplying financial reports in 1973·.                   ·

 5.10      KWPA's. annual audit reports were to· be supplied to the. Bank six
 months after the close of· a fiscal year. but they usually arrived one to two
 years later. Bank staff did. not seem to have attached much importance, to these
 reports besides acknowledging their receipt. The only problems raised: by the
 Bank concerned their late arrival. and. the· acceptability of the auditors·.. The
 Bank finally accepted KWPA' s auditor.

 5.11      KWPA furnished 31 quarterly progress reports with considerable
 delays between October 1,. 1969 and June- 21, 1977. Since KWPA'sl969 charter
 limited i~s activities to implementation of water. and. power projects, KWPA
 ceased progressively all other activities· which it was authorized to pursue
 under its 1960 charter. As a result,. KWPA' s reporting was limited to first
 hand information on engineering· works and to. second hand· information on agri:-
 business firms and research.. The reporting on agribusiness development and
 research was limited in scope and its reporting on research was not meaning-
 ful. Monthly cabled reports on progress of' works under supplement No. 1 to
 contract GD 107 (para 5.02) failed to achieve their objectives as the bill
 of quantities did not reflect real quantities which made a true comparison
 impossible.


                         VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT·


 KWPA' s Role in the Loan Documents

 6.01      The role intended for KWPA is surrounded by uncertainties. While
 the appraisal report states .. that KWPA would be responsible for impleme~ting
all project activities, the loan . agreement. only refers· to· "KWPk and all other.
agencies of the. Borr.ewer responsible for the carrying out and. operation of the
project". The inconsistency in drafting was certainly not helpf'ul for the
supervision missions later confronted with a multiplicity of agencies•.· It
became, however, of· minor significance in comparison with a. new problem. which
had not been foreseen at appraisal.               .                              .

Changeof.KWPA's Charter

6.02      Both the appraisal report.and. the loan agreement define KWPA as an
agency of the Ministry of Water and Power organized and operating under its
charter enacted in 1960. This statement was no longer correct when the
Board approved the loan on March 18, 1969 •.. The Iranian Government had. adopted
a new Charter for KWPA. a day earlier. There is no evidence to suggest· that
the Bank was made aware of this fact before the loan was signed. on April 18,.
1969, on the basis. of the. assumption that KWPA'·s Charter of 1960 was still. in
force. The Bank received a copy of the new, charter only in· June and any
comments that may have been made are· not recorded.

6.03      The· change of KWPA's Charter raises several issues. Section 6 •.02
(b) of the Loan Agreement specifies that the charter, regulations and. other
legal texts governing the organization, managemen.t or operation of KWPA cannot
be amended, repealed,. supplemented or otherwise· modified without prior consul-·
tation with the Bank •. Since the· change in the, charter had.cc.cured before the
Loan Agreement had. been approved by· the Board, it .probably cannot b~ considered
as a violation of the proposed· agreement. Nevertheless;. the fact that the
Bank was not informed of the impending change. led to severe misunderstandings
which were to encumber subsequent project implementation. Furthermore, it
would appear that the legal opinion required as a condition of effectiveness
may have been at fault in not pointing out. the changed situation.

6.Q4.     A second issue relates to the change in KWPA's role as a development
agency brought about by· the 1969' Charter. Originally the 1960 Charter set up
KWPA as a regional development agency, at first under. the Plan Organization
and then under the Ministry of Water and Power, with overall responsibility
for planning and developing agricultural and power projects in Khuzestan
Province. One of KWP A's imp or tan t functions was· to · promote the adopt i.on of
modern farming. practices by owners and farmers· including the use of farm
machinery, application of chemical fertilizer, selection of cropping patterns,
use of improved seeds and stabilization of land tenure. Since KWPA had per-
formed colDiilendably during the implementation of the piiot. irrigation scheme, ·
the Stage I project financed. by Loan 594...;IRN had been prepared on the assump-
tion that KWPA would continue to operate along the same lines•· The Bank's
evaluation of KWPA's managerial and administrative· capacity· had also been. an
important factor in the limitation of the project area to ST,000 .ha.

6.05       KWPA's 1969 Charter represents a radical departure from the earlier
set-up. It converted~ KWPA into a joint stock company with legal personality
and. financial independence, to be operated on· commercial principles. The
capital .would belong to the Government represented by the.Minister of Water
and Power. The objective was to achieve· agricultural and industrial develop-
ment through the establishment of subsidiary companies or partnerships and
investments in other organizations. and. companies.. The 1969 ·Charter refers in
particular to the Law for the Establishment of Companies (agribusiness) for
the Development and. Utilization of Lands DoWn.stream of Dams.

  6.06•      KWPA's 1969; Charter draws its significance· from the fact that
  it. completes the legal. framework for the. promotion.of. large-scale mechanized
  farming which had been initiated in .1968 w:Lth the· laws for the establishment
. of farm corporations and agribusiness companies: (see para. 3. 03). At the same
  time, it took KWPA out of the business of providing basic services for the
  development of small farmer agriculture. In particular, it ignored all the
  experience laboriously gained in the pilot irrigation scheme. The set of basic
  project premises ceased to exist at the very moment the loan was approved by
  the Bank.

Effect of the Change in KWPA's Charter on Project Implementation

6.07       The fact that the significance of the 1969 Charter was never.recog-
nized kept the Bank.from understanding. during project· implementation the
+ationale behind KWPA's efforts to stop exercising its responsibilities for
the development of smallholder· agriculture.. In line with its new Charter KWPA
divested. itself of its•. agricultural services . department which had. been. built
up over the previous nine years. The· Iranian Government, thereby, eradicated
a major· institution building effort.

6.08      From the outset supervision missions noticed the multiplicity of
executing agencies involved in project implementation and the transfer of
responsibilities to various technical ministries which took place without
the Bank being informed much less consulted before the event.. The confusion
was increased by the fact that some ministries redelegated part of their
responsibilities temporarily to KWPA while other ministries were abolis9ed
and new ones· were created..                                            ·

6.09      At one time or another the Ministries and agencies involved in
carrying out the project included:. Ministry of Water. and Power,. Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Cooperatives· and Rural Affairs, Ministry of
Agricultural Products and Consumer Goods, Agricultural Development Bank of
Iran and others. Efforts at coordination amongst these were shortlived and
ineffective. KWPA ended. up with the responsibility for the construction of
the irrigation infrastructure and its operation and maintenance. The Ministry
of Agriculture was responsible for Farm Corporations and traditional farmers
(although theoretically they had no place left in the project area); the
Agricultural Development Bank of Iran became.an increasingly important if
unwilling source of funds for agribusiness firms (see para 7.09).

Operation and Maintenance

6.10      KWPA's operation and maintenance organization was set up in. line
with the appraisal. report. It has at present enough manpower and equipment
to achieve a high standard of maintenance and operational. efficiency. But in
                                      - 15 -


  reality, the system was: neither well maintained nor well operated and it was
  far from meeting the standards envisaged at appraisal. The completion report
  missio.n found .. that the operation and maintenance costs per. hectare was US$102
  in 1977 dollars compared with an appraisal estimate of. US$15 in 1969 dollars •.
  This is at.least three times as high as the appraisal estimate in constant
  dollars. The increase was due to the fast. rise· in prices: of materials,,
  eq11ipment. and wages, and. to disregard for manpower and equipment efficiency by
  KWPA• Training programs. for managers. and ditchriders,. operators and mechanics
  have been quite. inadequate.. The consultants have recently made new pro'posals
· for restructuring operation. and. maintenance arrangements in an effort to
  improve this situation.


                        VII..   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT


Obj ec ti ves;

7.01       The· project's objectives wer.e to increase production through the
introduction of· modern agricultural practices, to· expand. cropped areas,
to raise yields of improved traditional. crops and to introduce new crops such
as alfalfa, pasture, edible legumes, sugarbeets and fruits, and finally to·
expand and improve· livestock'. and dairy. production. Farm family incomes were.
expected to increasefromUS$1,000 annually pre,...projectto US$3,300 at'.fo.11.
development. Large-scale mechanized; farming through. agribusiness,. if imple-
mented, was not. expected to involve· any change in objectives, only to enable
these objectives to· be: reached earlier. Additional advantages of agribusiness
were expected to be the inflow of foreign capital, the attraction of Iranian
private. capital into agricultural ventures, the introduction of modern agri-
cultural techniques and know-how, and the development of an agricultural
processing industry. The Bank agreed in 1972 that· the development of irriga-
tion farming through agribusiness was: an experiment, that the details of the
Government's implementation of land reform should not be questioned, and .. that
the project provided work to the grossly underemployed labor force. In the
Bank's view, the advantages outweighed the disadvantages of curtailing. the
area to be devoted to traditional farming.

Development of the Project Area

7.02      The anticipated fast development of the project area through agri-
business did not take place (see Annex. 6). In fact, in terms of allocated
area, even by 1978, agribusiness had only reached a cropping intensity of 41%,.
compared with a pre-project intensity of 60% and an anticipated intensity of
122% for smallh9lder agriculture. These results are particularly poor in view
of an irrigation system designed for a summer cropping intensity of 90%.
                                     - 16 -


                     Stage I and Stage !!·Cropping Patterns
                                   (in ha)

                                                     Project
                                                     Design
                                                     at.· full        ActuaL
       Crops                     . Preproject      Development        197'8 /1

Perennial
   Fodder                                              16,570          2,670
   Fruits                               260             4,490          1,090
   Subtotal                             260            21,060          3,760

Winter
  Grains                            34,290             22,150         16,.160
  Sugarbeets.                                           8·,010         4,040
  Others                             3',630            17,940          lz 710
  Subtotal                          37,920             48,100         21,910

Summer
   Rice·                             6,070              6,ooo               50
   Corn                                                 8,010          1,430
   Cotton                                               7,260              390
   Joint Ventures                                                      5 ,.070
   Others                            6,460             12,140              260
   Subtotal                         12',.530           33,410          7,200

Total Cropped Area                  50, 710          102,570          32,870

Project. Area                       84,000             84,000         81,000


.Ll   Agribusiness and. Farm Corporations.

  1 •. 03    At present 82,000 ha in Stage I and Stage I I are· irrigable but the
  cropped area. in winter has never exceeded 26,000 ha, less than 32% of the
  total. The gap between the irrigable and': the- cultivated area is such that the
  investment in infrastructure has turned out to be· uneconomic. The· major con-
  straint on agricultural development· proved. to be land leveling for which the
_Bank had provided funds, on the basis of the experience gained in the pilot
  irrigation scheme. ·Because agribusiness firms proposed to finance: land
  leveling from their. own resources, in order to achieve the required degree
  of precision, funds provided under the loan for this purpose were cancelled.
 As it turned out, the agribusinesses' refusal to have Bank funds used for land
  leveling was probably one of their major mistakes since it was the soaring
. cost of land development that was one of .the decisive· factors contributing to
  their. failure.

7. 04     The· agribusinesses,.. low overall cropping intensity· is due to a low
summer cropping intensity of about 10%· while water availability would allow a
                                    - 17 -


90% cropping·. intensity.. The agribusiness performance is actually even poorer.
than suggested by these figures since the· summer cropping intensity is only·
reached through the extensive use of; joint ventures. Joint ventures are·
arrangements whereby an agribusiness firm typically leases land to an immigrant
fat:mer for an annual rental of Rls I, 500/ha while its own .. rental obligations
to KWPA are only Rls 150/ha. Such fa-rmers· usually grow a summer crop. of       .
melons and. cucumbers • These arrangements, which cover 73 % of the cropped
areas in summer' show that smallholder agriculture: is; at least in summer,
more effective than LMl!' and certainly less capital. intensive· although. the
farmers do not benefit. from any technical support. As a result, their 'agricul-
tural practices iead to a rapid soil deterioration·. ·                      ··

Traditional and High Value Crops

7. 05·     Except for sugarbeets and fruit agribusiness firms have not suc-
ceeded. in reaching, even in· 1978, area. objectives which were. originally set
for smallholder agriculture. The profitability of sugarbeet cultivation is
reduced due. to the long distance haulage to. the sugarbeet factory at Ahwaz.
It will improve when the sugarbeet factory in the project. area. will come on
stream· hopefully in 1981. It should be borne in mind~ however, that the
sugarbeet. factory under· construction results from Government and not agri-
business initiatives. Wheat, an extensive low value crop, still occupies more
than 50%' of the allocated area compared with 66% in the pre-project situation.
The results achieved do not: demonstrate the superiority of agribusiness over
smallholder: agriculture •.

7-.06     Agribusiness does: not fare. any better in yield. comparisons. The
following Table shows that typical agribusiness yields (Iran Shellcott Co.)
in 1977, except for sugarbeets- and wheat,. are on the average 50% lower than
pre-project· yields and much lower than anticipated smallholder yields and
yields at the Safiabad· Research Station.,. These results are also generally
in line with average figures for all agribusiness firms. provided by AR.DAM.
                                                   - 18 -


                                   Yields in the- Project Area- -
                                           (tons/ha)

                                                                                                    Average J.2.
                                                                Saf iabad .id            Iran          Agri-
                                                                Published              Shellcott /3 - business
                                                                  Yield                 Yields        Results

    Crop          1968       11   Projected   /2        1966..;75            1976        - 1977       1975-76
.
    Alfalfa       12'. 5             15.0                    9-14             4.oo-      -8.00          3.5

    Cotton         2.2                2.8                    4.60             o. 70         1.10

    Corn           3.3                4.0                    5.40

    Sorghum                                                 5.30              2.20       not
                                                                                       harves-
                                                                                       ted

    Sugarbeet     35. 0             50.0                    55-60   l.!!..   19.00-    38   l.!!..     38.9
    Wheat         - 1 •. t           3.5                    3. 7L             2-.18'   2~   00          2.3


    /L DRC Feasibility report, September 1968. -
    72·    Appraisal Report.
    73     Booker Agriculture International Limited, London, 1977.
    /4     Sugar content at Safiabad reported at 16%. and Iran- Shellcott
           at 12.8% in 1978.
    J.2.   A Report on. a Pilot Economic. Survey,. ARD.AM, 1976.


    Capital Flows

    T. 07      The anticipation of large- private capital inflows through agribusi-
    ness firms was not borne out by experience•- The main reason appears to be
    that agribusiness firms were b_ent on reducing their risks by limiting their
    equity participation and by working-. essentially with loan capital. They
    typically tried to operate with an equity/loan ratio of 1:3, an anticipated
    payback period of five years for equity, and a- rate of return of 50% for a
    project· life of 10 years. These firms saw their main objective as making a
    profit• Land development was regarded as a secondary objective. The general
    pattern was to develop an initial area which they hoped would. provide the.
    profits to develop the remainder. over a period _of years. This approach was
    bound to bring agribusiness firms into_ conflict with Government authorities
    which had agreed with the Bank on a. fast rate of land_ development to ensure
    that the project remained economically viable.

    7.08     Agribusiness firms were. probably sufficiently- capitalized to achieve
    their profit objective but they were certainly under-capitalized for the kind _
                                       - 19 -


of objective· the Government had in mind ·for them" Tqe Government's insistence··
on its land development objectives was the main cause, besides cost.inflation,
for the financial difficulties experienced by agribusiness firms •. They failed.
to make. a profit on the lands that had been cleared and, pressed by the Gov-
ernment. to invest increasing sums in land leyeling, .their· financial condition
went from. bad· to worse. Starting from· 1973 Government: had no choice but. to
begin taking over the firms- one by one and to look after financing as well as
management.

7.09       Private Iranian· capital. only participated on. a small. scale in equity
capital. When. the agribusiness firms' financial problems occured they did not.
turn to Iranian private interests but applied for public funds both internal
and external. 1./ To meet this need the· Government decided to supply the
required funds -- equity and loan capital -- through.the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Iran. A proportion of these funds, albeit a small one, derived
from agricultural credit loans from the World Bank (Loans 662-IRN, 821:-IRN). 2/
None of the third loan to ADBI (1046-IRN) has· been used for· the Khuzes;tan         -
agribusinesses.. As a. result of these· arrangements, the· Bank directly financed
both irrigation infrastructure and on-farm development for private firms.. To
appreciate these arrangements, it should be borne in mind that the Bank had
refused to finance on-farm development for agribusiness firms under loan 594-
IRN because the. fir.ms- did not wish to. use international competitive bidding ·
procedures for awarding contracts. The agribusiness. firms then r.eceived funds
from the Bank. through· ADBI without having to go through ICB:. procedures... ADBI
has so far provided to agribusinesses.· US$38 million· or 63%.. of'. their total ·loan.
and. equity capital. This heavy involv.ement represents a major threat to
ADBI's capital structure, overtaxes its management capability and. distracts· it
from an orderly institutional build-up all of which have been. pointed out by
the Bank to the Government and ADBI.

Appropriate Technology

7.10      Large-scale mechanized farming through agribusiness· was proposed
in i966 by David Lilienthal, 1/ the Chairman of Development. and Resource
Corporation, and accepted by the Minister of; Water and Power. The· concept was
thus b9rn at a. moment when experiments in the.pilot irrigation scheme had
shown that smallholder agriculture was viable • . Both the Governments and
its: consultants, however, believed. that highly sophisticated large-scale
mechanized farming was superior- to smallholder agriculture because it promised



l/     In 1972 the International Finance· Corporation:approved. a loan of US$1.25
       million to one of the agribusiness although it never. used it as it was
       not capable of meeting conditions of. effectiveness.

1:_/   Out of· a. total. of Rls. 1. 9 billion (about US$ 270 m) loaned by ADBI to
       agribusiness as of mid-1978,. about 10% was derived from the World Bank
       loans •.

1/     See David Lilienthal, Journals, Volume 6, page 326.
                                     -20 -


 economies of scale. This~ latter contention was thoroughly disproved by
 experience in the project area over the coming years. The· very size and
 sophistication of the operation, especially the massive impact of this type of
 farming on a traditional village society and the technological leap that is .
 represented, were perhaps its.major drawback.

 7. n       The large-scale involvement of agribusiness required for its success
 a. responsive· social, economic,.financial and. administrative environment
 capable of providing those goods and services· without which  a  large mo_dern
 organization cannot function.. The lack of such. an. environment. was compounded
 by diverging agribusiness and Government objectives, profit on the one'side
 and land development on the other side.. Under these circumstances, large-
 scale mechanized farming through foreign-owned firms probably did not stand a
 chance of success. No such conflict of interest.would have existed between
 smallholder agriculture and KWPA;, whose capability of. providing the necessary
 goods and services to smallholders had been built up since- 1960.

 7.12.    Agribusiness: promoters initiated their operations on the wrong
 premises by failing from the start to appreciate locally available data. The
 first misconception was perhaps the idea that climatic conditions in Khuzestan
 and California were basically comparable. In Khuzestan summers are hotter and .
 winters are colder, so cold indeed· as to make double cropping hazardous, an
 important. fact when an irrigation system is based on intensive winter and·
 summer cropping.. Similarly·, .. the. significance· of available research data was
 misconstrued. The Safiabad Research. Station, which had. been. developed.: under
 the original Dez· Multipurpose Project, had made field trials of· high value
 crops including beans, tomatoes, peas, onions and cotton. They had shown that
 these crops could be grown. in the Khuzestan area and. achieve high yields. The
 results had been reached on small plots in the project area and were probably
 adequate as· guidelines for smallholder agriculture. Consultants for agri-
 business used these results and assumed,. on the basis of their· Californian
 experience, that they also· held tr.ue for large-scale commercial farming.
 Subsequent events showed this basic assumption to be a- fallacy, at least on
 the basis of technology then availab~e. ·

 7.13       Labor shortages, which were to place severe- constraints on mechan-
 ized farming, were the direct results of its introduction. Land allocation to
 agribusiness required the destruction of the traditional way of life and
 employment- opportunities. The slow start-up of agribusiness did not provide
 sufficient alternative jobs when they were needed •. The resulting labor
 surplus was absorbed by a booming urban economy. When agribusiness finally
 started requiring labor in significant amounts-, the avlailable labor force was
 not. numerous enough for the large-scale cultivation of labor intensive high.
 value crops.

· · 7.14      The labor shortage and accompanying higher wage rates made further
    mechanization even more tempting.- The limits -of mechanization,. however,
    appeared rapidly. The most important constraints appeared in the procurement
    of equipment and spares, the delays involved, the lack of qualified operators
    and mechanics, and in inadequacy of the.machinery. These factors introduced
    a high degree of inflexibility in the use of machinery; and raised costs •.
                                       - 21 -


   Mechanization turned out to be an unwieldy and inadequate tool. . To be suc-
   cessful it had to operate at a much higher technological level than small-
.. holder agriculture. This proved. to be impossible in the circumstances
   prevailing in Iran at the time•

 7 .15    ·Pest and weed: control~· were other problems which could not. be ~anaged
 on the scale at. which they occurred. While experimental plots continued to
 show many crops to be agronomically feasible, ·1arge scale production was
 generally disappointing. The limited absorptive capacity of markets was
 another constraint •. · The. introduction. of· modern mar.keting techniques was
 supposed to be one of the main advantages which agribusiness firms could have
 shared with small farmers, in particular through "contract farming". The
 agribusiness firms had been. expected to eliminate or.at least to circumvent
 traditional middlemen by establishing. downstream processing facilities and
 capturing excessive commercial margins for the producer. Except for a cotton
 ginnery which will probably have to be abandoned for lack of. seed cotton,
 agribusnesses have not caused. the establishment of downstream linkages. The
 lack of vertical integration probably eliminated one of the most important
 justifications for their existence. A sugarbeet factory, which is under con-
 struction in the project area, has· not resulted from agribusiness initiatives
 but from bilateral aid. It can· serve smallholders as well as agribusinesses.

 7.16.     The· various diseconomies: of. scale suggest that agribusiness -- big
 farms without downstream linkages -- are less profitable· than family farms.. A
 report prepared by AR.DAM .... the Bank"s advisory mission in . Iran J./ - tentatively
 concluded that the most important variable determining. productivity an.d profit-
 ability on farms. with approximately· similar resource endowment. is the .extent
 of family labor involvement. It also concluded that overall productivity
 and profitability was substantially higher on a 2,500 ha commercial. farm than
 on any of the bigger Khuzestan agribusinesses, largely due to the commercial
 farm's lower overhead costs. . Agribusiness firms on the other hand have heavy
 overhead cost because of the· large number of administrative personnel they
 employ. Their gross margins on crop sales are too low to cover these. While
 studies at the Safiabad Research Station show. positive gross margins for most
 crops, studies made by BAI 1:../ of the "'Iran. Shellcott cost structure demonstrate
 that, except for wheat and sugarbeet, ]_/ hardly any crop shows a positive
 gross margin at anticipated yields.



l/     Report on a pilot economic survey of farming in two ostans of Iran,
       July 1976, Agricultural and Rural Development Advisory Mission (ARDAM),
       prepared for ADBI.

J:./   Booker.Agricult~re   International, Shellcott Ten Year·Development Plan,
       London, 1977.    ·

11     Government policy of stabilizing output prices for wheat, corn and
       sugarbeet plus rapidly increasing prices for inputs has also been a
       contributory factor to low gross margins but does not .. affect the rela-
       tive profitability of. agribusinesses and other commercial farms.
                                    -22 -


7.17       The Ministry of Agriculture, ADBI and KWPA o.fficials have recognized
the failure of commercial large-scale. mechanized farming. They are now seek-·
ing alternative ways of farming the project area. One suggestion is that
the accumulated losses should be covered through Government subsidies and that
the agribusin~sses should be broken up and farmed in small. units. .Officials
point out that FarmCorporations have been successful because Government has
kept them afloat through liberal public finan:cing and that European as well as
US. agriculture is successful because it is subsidized. This may be true but
i t does not follow that large-scale mechanization rather than improved tradi-
tional smallholder agriculture should be supported.· It would seem that
improved traditional agriculture which. does riot carry high overhead. costs was,
under these circumstances, amore cost efficient proposition and·a.more
appropriate. technology than other types of farming.

Farm Corporations

7.18      The argument that subsidies are necessary and· sufficient to develop
agriculture is partly based on the Government's experience with the Haft Tapeh
Sugar Plantation (see para 3.02) and partly on experience with Farm Corpora-
tions which it considers to be a success (see Annex 8). As of December 1977,
the Government had spent US$2,900 per Farm. Corporation shareholder in loans
and grants.. Except for. financial problems, which are manageable as a result
of large Government subsidies, Farm Corporations appear to be plagued with
size and mechanization related problems similar to those experienced by
agribusiness firms.. In addition, they suffer from specific social problems
such as lack of interest of farmers as a result of forced collectivization and
inexperienced. management •. Experience with Farm Corporations shows that sub-
sidies are helpful in keeping alive enterprises which might founder otherwise.
It does not indicate that· initial subsidies are sufficient to make Farm
Corporation ultimately self-reliant and economically viable.

Displacement and Resettlement of Farmers

7.19      The: Bank counted the loss by indigenous farmers of the social bene-
fits of the land reform program and the displacement of villagers as one
of the major disadvantages of agribusiness development. This point had been
the Bank's constant preoccupation since it had learnt in 1967 of the Govern-
ment's intention of promoting large-scale farming.

7.20        Displacement of farmers in the 1960s came after the Government's
land reform hadsuccessfully broken up a feudal land tenure structure and
created a new class of. owners or prospective owners of small farms. Its
results had been entirely positive as shown by investigations in other parts
of the project area untouched by large-scale farming. The smallholder project
conceived by the Bank provided all the required technical, agricultural,. fi-
nancial and administrative: back-up for the land reform to make the Khuzestari
area an agricultural success without sudden disruption of the social fabric.
The Government's decision to introduce large-scale farming -- agribusinesses
and :Farm· Corporations -- reversed this development.. It subjected rece~tly
promoted individual small landowners to a pro,cess of proletarianization
                                    - 23 -


through the agribusiness firms and collectivization through- the Farm Corpora-
tions. The Bank, unable to influence the detail of these policies presented
as part of the Government's land reform policies, took an active interest in
resettlement.

7. 21     Resettlement involved the expropriation -against compensation of
land from land reform beneficiaries, the destruction of their villages, and
construction after long_ delays of new villages, and resett-lement ·- Data on
such matters as the employment situation_ before and after resettlement, the
amounts of compensation paid, number of people. concerned, their employment
during a transitional period, size of the house lots assigned to new settlers
are virtually non-existent.

7. 22.    The effect of large-scale farming on_ employment is of particular
concern. One of the premises of project preparation had been. that traditional
agriculture was plagued by gross underemployment. In-depth investigations l/
in areas untouched by large-scale. farming· suggest, however, that improved
traditional agriculture even after land reform.might have ensured full employ-
ment for both landowners and landless laborers and might not have led to
outmigration in the short term.

7.23       Indications -for_ the areas affected by large-scale farming, however,
suggest that substantial emigration and loss- of employment. have. occured.
Bank files indicate- that. 800 families lived up to the early· 1970s on the land
allocated to I'ran Shellcott Company (ISC'). In 1978, however, ISG had only 200
to 250 permanent laborers representing25 to 30% of the original population.
ISC management does not consider these workers to be an. asset and its policy
is to further reduce their· number by increasing the· degree of mechanization.
The very concept of year round employment is in doubt when summer cropping
covers less than. 10 percent· of the·. allocated area (see para 7 .04). Other
fragmentary evidence appears to confirm the. order of magnitude of loss of
employment and emigration. Originally, it was thought necessary to build 12
labor centers for a total of 6,000families. At the end of 1976 only five
labor centers with 1, 732 houses had. been built and 1, 427 families had moved
in.. As· it stands now, only about 30% of the original land-owning population
appears to be needed· as a permanent labor force •.

7. 24     The figures quoted above do not give any idea of the social costs
involved in the destruction of the traditional villages, removal of population,
resettlement in unfamiliar surroundings, emigration, unemployment and new
employment in urban centers. It could be argued, as some Government officials
have, that this is a normal process in economic development which the slow·
improvement of traditional agriculture may not have halted. It seems never-
theless obvious that the introduction of large scale mechanized farming has
greatly accelerated the process • . Here again, it seems that a well supported
smallholder agriculture would. havebeen preferable.



l/    Grace Goodel, Agricultural Production in a Traditional Village of
      Northern Khuzestan, -Marburg/Lahn, 1975, in Marburger Geographische
     .Schriften.
                                     - 24 - -


                  VIII.   ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS


Relevance of Analysis
                                                 -                     -
8.01      Economic and financial analysis. was carried out on at least five
occasions between 1960 and 1972. either by the .Bank or the International
Finance Corporation •. These analyses, which. became progressively more complex-
in response to new problems, showed that: the rate. of return oscillated
around the opportunity cost of- capital estimated at. 12%. They failed· to shed
much light on the major issue that beset project implementation: smallholder
versus large-scale mechanized farming.

8.02      The initial analysis of the Stage. I project financed under 594-IRN
was entirely based on the development of: smallholder agriculture on 57,000 ha.
Its basic analysis considered all previous investments.as sunk costs and found
that the economic rate of return of the incremental investment was. 12%. The
incorporation of infrastructure costs· incurred under the pilot irrigation area.
resulted in a .. rate of return. approaching 10%. The reappraisal of the Stage. I
project in August 1972 had to decide how to cope- with the the- phenomenon of
agribusiness, anticipated to occupy 80% of. the project area. Despite _the
lack of· any experimental data the reappraisal assumed that agribusiness would
achieve higher cropping_ intensity and yields, and grow more high value crops.
It therefore concluded that· agribusiness ventures. could accelerate the rate. of
agricultural . development and improve economic .benefits.

8.03      The appraisal and reappraisal of the Stage I project only evaluated
the returns on the incremental investments and basically· considered. all
previous expenditures as sunk costs. The appraisal of the Stage II project
evaluated both the returns on the incremental. as well as prorated total
costs for a project area, of which 80% was to be developed by agribusiness •.
It also introduced the question of the net capital inflow and thereby·indi-
rectly raised the issue of the beneficiary: Iranians or foreigners? The
appraisal of Stage II showed that the economic rate of return on the project.
would be 14%; it would be reduced to 13%- i f prorated costs of- the dam. and. the.
irrigation system were taken into account and further to· 11% if benefits
accruing to foreign shareholders were transferred out of Iran.- ·The Stage II
appraisal report did not draw the possible conclusion from these findings that
the development of: traditional agriculture might have had. a higher rate of
return.

8.04       The International Finance Corporation in its evaluation of Iran
California Company projected the rate of return. to Iran from the. investment
in. the agribusiness to be 21.%. This rate of return related the economic
benefits expected from increased agricultural output in the area to the
investment expenditures on farm development financed by the-Company, all
previous: expenditure being considered as sunk. costs. However,. the economic
rate of return to _Iran was reduced to. 3%', when the project was charged with a
proportional share of the cost of developing the irrigation infrastructure.
The financial rate of return to Iran California Company: was more than 20%.
                                      - 25 -


 8.05      The above estimate. of. the economic rate of return also took into
 account the balance of· capital flowing in (equity and loans) and out (repay"'-
 metit of principal, dividends< and- interest). Since· the project was expected to
 yielri a high financial. return. to. Iran California.partly as.a result of past
 infrastructure expenditures· exclusively borne by the Government, .. the level. of
 dividends repatriated. and other capital outflows- abroad were expected to be
 large compared with the initial capital. inflows •. ·.Consequently,. IFC estimated
 that foreign: financing of agricult.ural development through agribusiness would
 reduce the net economic project benefits to Iran. IFC concluded that if
 Iran were ab.le to carry ·out the Project with the· same benefits but: without
 foreign participation, the economic return, including past investments in
 infrastructure would increase. from- 3 to 8%. Since indigenous know-how was not
 available, however, IFC were. unable to suggest a means of implementing this
 solution.

8.06      IFC' nevertheless explored. various ways and. means of. increasing
returns to Iran on its. infrastructure-investment. One way would have.been an
increase in the level. of water charges, land rentals and taxes to be paid by
agribusinesses. · Another way would have been. the allocation of unsold shares.
in the company to Iranian· shareholders to increase the national share:: in the
benefits. The problem with these measures was that they would probably have
been resisted by foreign interests who were only attracted to Iran by the
promise of high profits. IFC concluded that a conflict existed between the
success of Government efforts to attract foreign agricultural investment. and
know-how to the country and the possibility. of Iran's obtaining a better
economic rate of return on· its. investment in: the irrigation. infrastructure •.

 8.0T      IFC did not consider smallholder agriculture as an alternative to
 commercial large-scale farming. However, the type of analysis summarized
 above would have shed some light on the discussion of the relative merits of
 smallholder agriculture and agribusiness ventures. The need to prevent the
 outflow of benefits might have drawn attention to the existence in Iran of a
 capital-saving locally-available resource -- human labor--which the Bank had
 considered previously to be capable of reaching good agricultural· results on
 the basis of experience in the pilot irrigation scheme.

 Farm Incomes

. 8. 08      The Appraisal report envisaged the project area to· be farmed by
  individual owners or tenants.in expectation of title. Project implementation
  would raise thetr incomes from a. pre-project level o.f US$1,000 to US$ 3,300
  at full development (both figures. in 1969 dollars). Whether. this would have
  occurred we can no longer tell since individual farmers have.largely dis-
  appeared, as illustrated by the present land ownership pattern. After land
. reform by the late 60 's, most. of the: land in the Khuzest.an was privately .owned
  except for the Haft Tapeh sugar plantation. At present KWPA:owri.s about 80,000
  ha and. farm corporations cover about 10, 000 ha. As a result, most of the
  project area is now in public hands. A small proportion:, possibly about 30%
  of the original population -- former farmers· or tenants -- have been turned
  into wage laborers for agribusinesses· (see para 7. 20) through a process of
  proletarianization and collectivization, while the majority has probably left
  the rural areas for urban centers.
                                       - 26 -:·


8. 09      The incomes of wage· laborers and members of farm corporation have
not reached the incomes envisaged at appraisal. · Since it is unlikely that
farm laborers 1/ work at present more than 150 to 200 days a year, a family
income would be in the range of US$400 to US$500 a year (in 1969 dollars),
about half of the pre-project average.family. income. Much of this income
decline has been in favor· of· farm managers, civil servants and supplier's of.
imported. goods and services..             ·

Outlook.

8.10       After twenty years of effort, the project area has experienced
major upheavals but it is as yet impossible to chart a future course with
any certainty. Traditional farming has been destroyed but no viable alter-
native has been found. Large scale mechanized farming which was to be the
alternative is not viable:. There is a general consensus· that smaller pro-
duction units are. more economical but there is no agreement on the· optimal
size. Despite· long and costly· efforts, no. high value crops have been found
to justify the heavy investment, operation. and maintenance costs of the
infrastructure facilities. Crop revenues are barely sufficient to cover
direct costs let alone overhead costs. The delays between. water availability
and agricultural development have. grown to such an extent that no cropping
pattern" may be sufficient to justify past investments .. The ERR on the entire
project investment. including' the dam and irrigation systems is negative.
Even treating the dam as sunk cost the ERRs on the irrigation systems of both
Stage I and Stage II are also negative.


                   IX.     BANK AND CONSULTANT PERFORMANCE


Bank Performance

9.01      The Bank is performance can only be understood against the background.
of its 20-year long· association with the Khuzestan development. This associa-
tion was punctuated by basic disagreements between the Borrower and the Bank
on the scope and nature of the infrastructure facilities (see para. 2.01) and
the development concept (see paras •. 3.01 to 3.05). The magnitude of these
disagreements was only matched by the Borrower's determination to achieve its
objectives by all means and the Bank's reluctant acceptance of the Borrower's
views as a result perhaps of the Bank's. inability to properly evaluate the
Borrower's intentions (see paras. 3.03 and 6.02).

9.02      The Bank's     major handicaps in dealing with project authorities were
twofold. The Bank's      first handicap was that it believed that it could agree
with the Borrower on     facts. The Borrower, however, changed facts wheneve.r it
suited its purpose.      This occurred for instance when the Borrower and the Bank



1/   Two laborers. per family working each 150 to 200 days a year and making
     US$1.32/day in 1969 dollars.
                                           - 27 -


      disagreed in the late 1950s, on the· nature. of the project (see para.· 2.03).
      Confronted with a. new situation, the Bank had. no choice but to agree., . This
      pattern repeated itself particularly during· implementation of.the Dez Irriga-
      tion Project. The Bank's second. handicap was that it assumed. time and again
      that the Borrower would. follow through on verbal and written agreements as it
      did itself. This assumption was disproved both _during, project preparation and
      implementation.

      9 :03      There are several instances•. when the Bank: believed it had reached
...   written or verbal agreements•. with the Borrower only to find out subsequently
      that its views and those of' the, Borrower were as far apart as ever. One such
      instance occurred when the third appraisal mission of the Stage. I Proj,ect
      returned in 1968 to Washington with the conviction it had agreed with the
      Government on setting aside for agribusinesses not more than 3,800 ha (i.e.,
      about 7% of the project area) to test the viability of agribusinesses (see
      para. 3. 05) .. However, the Government's· legislative drive during this period
      shows (see paras. 3.03 and 6.02), and its position during loan negotiation
      proves (see· paras .. 3. 06-3 .08), that the Government favored large scale mecha-
      nized f·arming of the complete project area. al 1 along.

      9.04        Another· series of instances further reveals how the Borrower's
      disregard· for written and. verbal agreements was a consistent. feature of
      Bank-Borrower re lat ions. These occurred during project. iinplementat ion· when
      the. Government extended· the areas. for large· scale mechanized farming progres-
      sively without. prior consultations with· the Bank (see paras. 4.01-4.02).
      Despite the Borrower' S· repeated breaches"· of the Loan Agreements, the Bank
      continued to believe· it could rely· on Government· assurances. Thus, when on
      three occasions supervision missions recommended. suspension of disbursements
      or· loan. cancellation, Bank management decided -against this upon receiving
      assurances from high Government officials that the problems• would be remedied
      when this possibility was mentioned to them .. But they· never were. In fact,
      the Borrower employed this approach. successfully several times until 'the Bank
      had moved. progressively away from its position on small holder development and
      accepted the Borrower's views on large scale:me~hanized farming expressed as
      early as 196 T.

      9.05      In the final analysis, the reason why the Bank was willing to
      agree to this gradual erosion o~ the concept of development of: the project
      area through small holders was: (1) the Government's interest in a major
      increase in Bank participation in Iran' S· development program; (2) the high
      level assurances received when. problems arose thatthe Government would put
      things right;. and (3) the Government's ·request for Bank assistance on agricul-
      tural policy as a whole.   In 1972, the Government requested the Bank to set up
      an agricultural mission. in Iran to advise it on agricultural development
      policy in the country. This was established in 1973. Settlement policy
      became one of several major policy issues under discussion. The possibility
      of a suspension of disbursement in this project thus was viewed in the· light
      of the dialogue on agricultural policy that.seemed to have been opened up with
      the Borrower, aswell as in. the context of the Bank's· apparent potential over-
      all influence on economic policy as a whole. In both respects, the harm that
      would have been done by suspension was'- outweighed in the Bank's view by the .
                                    - 28 -


potential benefits of sustaining the dialogue.. In June 1972, the Bank finally
suspended negotiations on Dez II, soon. after they· had, begun in Washington,
when it was discovered that the Borrower had changed the project design com-
pared with what was appraised. Indeed by 197 5, the Government had recognized
it was wrong. Unfortunately, by then the damage to. the agricultural develop-
ment of the Dez Project .had been done.             ·

Consultants   l/
9.06      The~ Iranian Plan Organization's decision to invite the then recently
founded (1955) Development·and Resources Corporation (DRC) to assist the
Government in its efforts to develop the Khuzestan region appears to have
been based. on the: stature of the DRc'·s· Chairman and his previous involvement.
in the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). Rather than hiring a consulting firm
solely on the basis of technical competence, the Plan Organisation acquired
the services of an entity with; a. specific.development message and apparently
willing only to undertake work compatible with its basic outlook and ready to
withdraw·-- at least in theory -- if this outlook was questioned.

9~07       DRC's development message was based. on the concept that public
development: of. infrastructure facilities was a necessary first phase. · In a
second phase, private business would seize the opportunities provided by the
creation of infrastructure· which in. turn.would lead to sustained economic and
social' development.. This objective· would. be reached through the efforts of
a regional development authority provided with comprehensi.ve: powers and .
unfettered by bureaucratic regulations. DRC's guiding principle was· not to
get bogged down. in reports but to proceed swiftly from planning to action and
usually to initiate· action.even before the investigation and initial reports
were completed. This attitude would. lead DRC to advocate, if necessary,
setting investment in motion before planning was complete and then using this
as a justification to continue investing according to the· proposed plan.
Especially when presented by the· Bank, the. consultants considered figures less
important--they were considered only as judgments disguised as facts--than
political decisions., the real key to development.

9.08      DRC's strategy was· based. on a, close relationship. between DRC' and
Iranian Government officials who would adopt its message and methods.. These
included an astute evaluation of the political situation and the Bank's free-
dom of maneuver, emphasis on speed of implementation, willingness to create
irreversible facts to force a favorable solution, readiness to ·accept temporary
setbacks but single minded determination to realize overall. objectives.

9.09      The consulta.nts' cooperation with the Iranian Government authorities
was fruitful. It appears,. at least superficially, that their development
philosophy was· implemented· since they provided the blueprint for the multi-
purpose dam and· large-scale mechanized farming development and set up KWPA as



l/   This is based on the "Journals" in six volumes by David Lilienthal and
     on Bank files •
                                     - 29 -



a regional development authority.       They also supplied the strategy for·over-
' coming the Bank's objections to these schemes. Iil line. with the consultants'
  approach all the elements for a successful regional development are present
  but at least agricultural development has not taken place. The dam was built
  but the water remains largely unused; for: irrigation. KWPA's role as a . regional
  development agency was terminated in 1969·.. Agribusiness. firms have failed and.
  Farm: Corporations have met with little success. Thus, irrigation development
 .in the Khuzestan. shows. the extent. and.the limits of> a. consulting firm's
  involvement in a developing country.


                               X.   CONCLUSIONS


10.1      At this point. in the history of the development of the irrigated
area commanded from the Pahlavi Dam the future course of events is uncertain
since the policy of the· new Government in Iran towards large-scale- mechanized
farming is unknown. Even as far. back. as 1975, however, it was already clear
and recognized by the Government that the system of development adopted for
the project--large-scale mechanized farming by agribusinesses~-had to be
modified if agricultural production. was to be significantly increased. The
proponents of: agribusiness had: seen them as the best means of rapidly modern-
izing the traditional agricultural system, and. a way of providing a suffi-
ciently large, margin. of. profit to· meet· the high costs of land development in.
the project ar.ea. When agribusinesses actually took over· the development and
cultivation of the project area, they failed to become the dynamic source of
modern technology that had been expected of them• Even though they were
strongly supported by the Government·, which tried initially to provide all the
necessary conditions- for this- success, the. measures· the· Government took were
inadequate to overcome an economic and social environment that was slow to
adapt to the sophisticated needs of mechanized farming. These difficulties
were further. compounded by lack of agricultural data on crop performance under
large-scalecultivation. The expectation that results achieved on small-scale
experimental plots could be. transferred to large-scale farm conditions,
whether mechanized or not, proved a major source of error.:· As a. result, the
system of farming as developed by the agribusinesses in Khuzestan· provided.
only slender if any margins- over variable costs insufficient to cover their.
high overhead costs and in the end they had to be supported by .major injec-
tions of Government funds. The result of this is that the project's economic
rate of return is not only far from the expected 11-14% but is instead nega-
tive. Production in the project area is now less than it was before the
irrigation system was built. Employment has fallen and even the incomes of
those who remain are lower than they were before the. project started. While
Khuzestan now possesses an excellent,, modern irrigation system, the system of
farming to use it profitably has yet to be introduced.

10.2      The reason why the Project is in this state today is that the
Government pushed an unproven but sophisticated technology too. far and too
fast. From the time the: Government decided to introduce large-scale mechan-
ized farming in about 1967, Bank missions continually underlined the need to
test such a. method of farming on.a trial area before giving out large leases
                                    -30 -


to private agribusinesses. The different views of the Government and its.
consultants on the one. hand, and· the Bank. on the other, on the best ways of
developing. agriculture inKhuzestan,·did not so much revolve around the issue
of large-scale versus traditional· farming but around the adoption of a· system
of farm:ing that. had been shown to be profitable in the difficult local condi-
tions against one that had· not •. A major· purpose of the orig:inal Dez Multi-
purpose Project had been to test the viability of a system of farm:ing in the
area on a pilot scale~ The results led. Bank. missions to believe that this
system--smallholder· farm:ing--would be an economic means of developing the
whole area. There was no experience with any other system to prove one way or
another that smallholder farm:ingwas.the best.or only system. On the other
hand, the. experience of the· pilot project at least. showed it should be· viable.
The Bank, therefore, supported it. Bank staff. also believed it had convinced.
the Government to go slow in introducing large-scale mechanized farming when,
during negotiations, the Government agreed to limit the area to be devoted to
this type of farm:ing to 20, 300 ha. out of the total. of 57, 000 ha.

10.03     Exam:ination of later actions by the Government make it clear that
this conviction was at best short-lived. The Government reverted to its pre-
vious policy of promoting development of most of the project area through agri-
business only a few weeks after the loan. had been approved and demonstrated
this by signing letters of intent with agribusinesses for almost. double· the
area allowed by the Loan Agreement •.

10. 04     From the. time of the first supervision mission. in late 1969 ·until.
mid 1974, the Bank and the Borrower were in constant dispute about the· rela-
tive areas to be developed by smallholders or. agribusinesses/Farm Corporations.
While the Borrower was de· facto almost continually in breach of the Loan Agree-
ment, and three supervision missions. recommended suspension of disbursements,
the Bank was in a very difficult position. On the one hand, there was little
evidence, at least initially, to prove. large-scale mechanization was not a
viable alternative to smallholder d'evelopment; on. the other, it was the· method
chosen by the Government to modernize agriculture in Iran as a whole. Suspend-
ing disbursements, therefore, would appear as a rejection of the· Government
efforts· at modernization; not to suspend meant accepting the need to change
the whole concept. of. development agreed. at. negotiations.

10. 05      The argument that the system would· work was largely based on its·        I
                                                                                     ·'
success·in the Western United States. The evidence to the contrary was based
on. experience in a series of· projects in underdeveloped countries where·
large-scale mechanized farm:ing had been a costly failure. The Bank's long
experience in such countries made it recommend a cautious approach to the
Government. The Government's. desire for rapid results. dictated otherwise• At
each point when.supervision missions recommended. suspension of disbursements,
high level contacts with the Government led to promises of improved compliance
with loan conditions. While these. usual,ly· did not materialize, the Bank wa:s
obliged. t:o accept them at· their face value. In addition, from .1972 onwards
when the Government. requested intensive Bank assistance in agricultural
policy, which resulted in the establishment of a Bank mission in Iran specif-
ically· charged with providing advice on agricultural and rural development
policy to the Government, ·the possibilities of influencing Government policies
                                    - 31 -


away from· exclusive reliance on agribusinesses. appeared to become considerably
stronger. Thus, the arguments against suspension of this loan grew weaker as
the-possibilities of influencing Government policy in a larger context were
increas.ed. From internal. evidence, it would seem that, by the, time this
mission. closed in mid-1976, the Government had changed. its: policy. This was
too late' however' to allow. an easy reversion to the original smallholder
concept.

_10.06     Judging by farm surVey data now available, it is likely that develop-
 ment through smallholders would. have resulted in. a much more- rapid growth of
 total production than. through the methods actually adopted and that the ERR on
 the project would have been satisfactory. It is clear in hindsight that the
 Bank's original concept of smallholder development was the right one. It is
 unfortunate that the Government's tactics of gradually forcing the Bank to
 accept its policy of developing the project area predominantly through. large-
 scale mechanized farming, were able to succeed. The- failure of the project to
 yield the expected production increases is the result.

10.07      Set against this failure· must be set· its success in building the
requisite irrigation infrastructure, at a. cost not greatly in excess of
appraisal estimates, despite its construction during a period of rapidly
rising prices. Most of the cost increases were the result of the delay in
only one contract •. Adjusting for changes in project content the cost increase
was. about 22%, a. reasonable increase considering the period involved. The
works constructed were to the- spec·ifications laid down in. the appraisal report
and the project now has. a first-class irrigation network. The problem. is of ·
course that irrigation water is available but that it is not being used to the
ex.tent possible.

10.08      The main lesson to be learnt from the experience of this project
is that the physical construction of infrastructure· facilities is relatively
easy compared.with the achievement of less tangible agricultural and. social
project objectives. The latter is particularly difficult if_ there is an
incomplete meeting of minds between the Bank and the Borrower~ In the project
under review, the Bank showed a. great degree of flexibility in agreeing to the
Government's proposed' changes in the project content when this appeared
necessary in order to maintain any degree of influence over the project and
sector policies.. Such flexibility did _not always lead to the best course of
action,. when considered with the benefit of hindsight, but was probably the
only viable alternative at the time.

10.09     In the first place, the Bank's willingness to acconnnodate the
changes in the forms of development which the Government introduced without
consultation with the Bank appears to have increased proportionally with its
degree of involvement. in the project and in the Iranian economy. Two examples
of this are particularly worthy of note. The first instance came at the stage
of loan negotiations when the Bank accepted a much greater-involvement of
agribusinesses than- it· felt was _technically justified. A second instance
occurred oti at least two occasions during project implementation when the Bank
feltobilged to concur with successive diminutions in the area devoted. to
smallholder farming in order to continue its participation in the hope that
                                         -' 32 -


     its presence would at least salvage some of the original project, concept as
     well as its expanding relationship with the Government. In the event this
     proved a vain hope •.

     10.10        Secondly, .. while the Bank emphasized economic criteria. as important
     tools in decision"-making,. it accepted. that political considerations assumed.
     overriding importance· for. the Borrower •. For instance, when the Borrower
     st.arted considering the establishment of large-scale mechanized farming as a
     further step in the implementation of its land reform.policy, the Bank was
     inclined to accept it as a Government policy option. in which it did not wish
     to interfere. In this context, it did not use its, only available remedies--
     suspension of disbursements or loan cancellation--to dissuade the Borrower
..   from a course of action which it thought excessively risky. The Bank's chance
     to show its disapproval of Government policy came when· it refused to finance
     Stage II of' the Dez Irrigation. Project. because the Government still persisted
     in promoting agribusiness in the face of growing evidence in the Stage I
     pro j ec t that they were. not an ec anomic means of developing the area • In the
     end, therefore, the. Bank had the last word. on the subject, one which proved
     eventually to be fully· justified. The pity is that,. in the meantime, all the
     benefits that had begun to emerge through land reform and the provision of
     irrigation--the break-up of large estates·, the settlement of smallholders, the
     emergence of a more prosperous peasant class and increased employment for the
     landless-were abruptly reversed . when the. development of this area was handed
     over to agribusinesses. The result was social upheaval, depopulation, decreased
     incomes and. employment, and a heavy drain on the Government. budget,. without
     any compensating gain in production or a more rapid pace of development.




                           )
                                                                        ANNEX 1


                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                  IRAN:   DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)


                            Description of the Project


          The Project constitutes the second step in an over-all agricultural

development plan for the area known as the Dez Irrigation Project in the

province of Khuzestan, the first step. of which, consisting of a pilot irriga-

tion scheme   coverfn~    about 20,000 ha on the left bank of the Dez River

immediately south of Dezful known as the Dez Pilot Irrigation Project (DPIP),

was financed in part under the First Loan Agreement.       The present Project is

Stage I in the progressive development of irrigation, drainage and' on-farm

development in the Dez Irrigation Project, Stage II of which subject to the

provisons of Section 5. 05· (b) of the Loan Agreement, will cover the balance of

the irrigable land tberein •.
                                                           ·.'
          The Project includes:

     A.   Irrigation and Drainage Works.      The construction of: (1) a

          re-regulating dam and a diversion dam near Dezful; and (2)

          canals, drains,    irrigati~n   distribution systems, flood pro-

          tection works and maintenance roads to serve a total of

          about 37,000 ha of which about 35,500 ha are located on the

          right bank of the Dez River and 1,500 ha in the Ghomaysh

          area.

     B.   On-Farm Development.     On-farm development of.the 37,000 ha

          mentioned in paragraph.A above and of the 20,000 ha compris-

          ing the DPIP, consisting of the leveling and preparation of
                                                                      ANNEX 1
                                                                      Page 2


     land and the prov1s1on of field channels for irrigation

     distribution and drainage down to farm level.

C.   Sub-surface Drainage System.    The construction of a sub-

     surface drainage system in accordance with the recommenda-

     tions of the study provided for in paragraph H (6) hereof.

D.   Roads, Service Buildings and Facilities.       The construction

     of: (1) a road network consisting of (a) a main east-west

     road and bridge across the Dez River, (b) two main north-

     south roads, and (c) a feeder-roads system; and (2) three

     district service centers, together with facilities.

E.   Operation, Maintenance and Farm Machinery and Equipment.

     The Procurement and utilization of: (1) operation and main-

     tenance equipment for the irrigation and drainage works;

     and (2) equipment for agricultural field operations of

     farmers, acquired with the credits provided for 1n para-

     graph F below ..

F.   Agricultural Credit to Farmers and Farmers' Societies.

     The Provision of agricultural credit services to farmer

     and societies of farmers in the area of' the Projeci for

     purposes of the Project.

G.   Training.   The establishment and operation, under expe-

     rienced and competent management, of a training center

     providing. (1) to project personnel, courses and programs,

     including courses in   opera~i~rt ~nd   maintenance of Project

     facilities, farm management a~d the techniques ap~ropriat~
                                                                     ANNEX 1
                                                                     Page 3


     to the agricultural extension, credit and marketing ser-

     vices for the Project, and other related subjects; and (2)

     to farmers, courses in farming techniques, including the

     operation of    farm machinery.

H.   Programs and Studies.      The Preparation and Implementation
     of:

     (1)   A cost accounting system for the Project;

     (2)   A land redistribution, consolidation and settle-

           ment program for the 37,000 ha mentioned in para A

           above, to be carried out progressively as required

           by. the Project;

     (3)   A marketing study, including proposals for the

           establishment of such marketing services as are

           required for the Project, to be prepared by

           December 31, 1969;

     (4)   A detailed plan of operation for the agricultural

           service department of KWPA's Project organization

           to be established by June 30, 1969;

     (5)   An agricultural credit study to serve as a basis

           for carrying out that part of the Project described

           in para F above and to include proposals for admin-

           istering the funds to be provided under this Agree-

           ment for such part of the Project, to be completed

           within one year from the date hereof; and

     (6)   A study of surface drainage requirements for the

           area of the Project, to be completed by June 30,

           1970.
                                                                                                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                                                                                                                             IRAN
                                                                                                                DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT STAGE I
                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
                                                     1967           1968             1969               1970                1971              1972              1973             1974            1976               1976               1977               1978
SYAGE I (P,inial Financing by l~ Bankl

   GO 101 - Control Gate1,
   Hois·n· and Stop Logs lor
   Re-regulating Dam, Oiverslori                                  11U1111111ll111I1111111111~111   I
   Dam a~ Main Canal

   GD 102 - Re-regulating and
   Diversion Darm. 15~ Km ol
   West Main canal, 25 Km of
                                                                           ncontract Re·Assigned
   SEcondarv Canal and Laterals,
   and 42 Km Drain'
                                                      II II 1111iIII11111II11111.111111111111111~11111111111111111111111111        I

   GD 103 - Shu~~ Shushtar
   Road 33 Kin and a Bridge
   on DEi River                                                                                                                           .u 1111111111 i111111111111111h111111111111•
   GD 104 - Northern Distti·
   bu lion System o( illOut 36 Km
   Canals and 111 Km Laterals,
   68 Km Drains and 115 Km Roads                                                                   • 11111111111~111111111111111) 111111111111 ll

   GD 105 A and 105 B - Supply
   and Installation ol Pumps,
   Moto"rs and Conlroh ot Three                                                                                         ~ 111111111111c111111~11111111) 111 i
   Sites

   GO 106 .:_Control Gatts and
   f-ioists tor GD 107 Canal Dis·
   tribution System                                                                                                         111111111ti11111111111111f11111

   GD 107 - Southern      Oistri~
   bution System of 3~ Km
   Canals·and 124 Km Laterals,                                                                                                                                                                                  r    Increase In Rste1 Agreed
   48 Km Roads and 120 Km                                                                                                               11111111111111fl11111I11111111. 111111111111111) 11111111111111.lllllllllllllll l l l l l l l l .
   of Drains

   GD 109-if - Control Gates
   for Canal Distribution System

   GD t    toaf -   Remainder of Roada
   and Main Drainege System·

   GD 111 A and eb.J....:. Supply and
                                                                                                                                   ·,111~111111111111111111111111111•
   lmtallation of Pumps and Moton
   tor 20 Pump Turnoun

   Land Leveling .                             11111111e.V1 ~~~1e1 ~~~~~~t111111111 ,__ _ _ _ _. ,_ _ _ _ _. ._ _ _ _ _. , ._ _ _ _ _~~-----+--------4                                                                                                Expected
   Oevelopmen~      and Surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Completion\
   Draina9e'IM~s.t of Project Area)                                                                                                                                                                          ~I 11111111111 I I l'.11,111111111III.III11111I1111 I I
   Above Works only lor 5300 ha
   Equipmenl Procurement

                                                                              t. 111111111II111I111111111111111.111111111II111/.111111Iil1111111~ 111111111111111~1III111IIll1111ll11111111111111~ 11111111111
    ii   N,ot u:stOd but included In GO 106                                                                                                                                                                                                 World Bank·- 19283
    bf     Not ihown in appraisal repor1 To-
           681 A construction schedula                                         -------· ~~~~!.ed
                                                                               11111111111111111111    Actusl
                                                                                                                 1969


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
    g      Not uaed but induded in other controctl



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i    '
                                                   P'ROJ'ECT COMP!..":.-ZION RE?OR'I'

                                       I3.AN - DEZ nut!G1:1:ION ?ROJEC'! (LO.AN 5 94- !?..N)

                                                                ST.AGE !

                                                             Cost :Es-::imates
                                                                             USS '000

                                                   AD~ra.isal     1969 Estimates                           Act:ual Cos t:s
                                                 ~             F'orei£"C.   Total                           For e.i.%!!.

          .A.     Comnarable Comt1onents

  I.    .!:'riga.tiou and Drainage works          26,200        9,000            35,200       36, i42       10,958       4i, 700/~
II! •   Roads , .Buildi?l.gs and
                Facilities                         4,500        1,900             6,400        3,580         l,100           4,   680(~

 rY.    Equipment for Opera.tiou and
              Ma.int ena.nc e                                   l., 800          1,800        1,146             914          2,060

                                                   1., 700                        6 2 800     1;217          5 2 543         6.i60

                 Subto'ta.l A                     32,400       17,800            50,200      42,685         18,51.5     61,200

          B.     Co~:o.onents   el:i=linat~ OT   Cu=-:a.iled

        Oo-f a.rm developme:it                    10, 200       4,300         14,.500        11,800                     U,800

  V.    Agr:i.c:ultural Credit for
                !ar.n Mach:i.nery                  1,700        2,300             4,200

V!!.    !n:e=est duri:lg        cons~~c:ion,
                etc.                                            5,Li.00           5 ,Li.CO                   4,000           4,ooo·
                  Subtotal B                      ll,900       12,200            24,100       ll,800         4,000      15,800

        '!ota.l .A   + ]                          44,300       30,000            74,300      54,485         22,515      7i' 000




  ~   !=.eludes o'Oera.tiona.l and project a.rs.a roa.d.s 'l<!-..ic:h ve.re at foe appraisal se"Cage ~cl1.lded in
       Ca:ego:-y in.
  ,£1 Includes o~y 511.lsh-Shush:ar as? halt road, 'ouil~:l~s a:i.d .facilities .
  .s.l Cos::s for ccnsultant se..-rices and s• ... ~Ja: items of c:ocnon                ~e:id.iture     proTated
                be'="#een Stage ! and Stage !l.
                                               .    n"'u.J~C"l   CUNJ:'Lt;TlUN    KJ~J:'UKT



                                       IRAN:       DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)

                                                                   Stage I

                                                   Allocation of Loan Proceeds



                                                            Loan            1st                 2nd                      Final Allocation
                                                         Agreement         Revision/a         Revision/b   Reallocation/c of Proceeds
                                                         ---------------------=------US$'000------------~--=----------------
  I.   Civil Works (Irrigation and Drainage                12,700            13,800           11,659        11,659      12,057,548.70·
       works; on farm developments; roads,
       buildings and other fatilities)

 II.   Loans on farm machinery                              2,500            1,500

III.   Operation &. Maintenance Equipment                   1,600            1,800             1,600         1,600         913,469.27

 IV.   Consulting Services                                  5,100                5,100          5,100        5,741       5,543,136.77

  V.   Interest and other charges on                        5,400                4,400          4,000        4,000       4,000,000.00
       loan during construction

 VI.   Vnallocated                                          2,700                1,400            641

         Total                                             30,000            28,000            23,000       23,000      22,514,154.74

       Cancellation                                                                                                        485,845.26

         Total Loan Amount                                                                                              23,000,000.00



 a/ On December 1, 1972.
Y.   On. September 15 • 1973.
!2_/ On .April 7 1 1976.
                                                                                         ANNEX 5




                              .. PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

              IRAN - DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT STACE I (LOAN 594-IP.n)

                               SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS


                 Aonraisa l :='sti::cates and Cu:.:uL:..tive Disbt:T.sc:::::e:its
                           - - - - - US$million



                                                                bl
                                     a/             Actual Total            Actual Disbursements
   IBRD                 Appraisal                   Disbursements            As a Percentage of
Fiscal Year             Estimate                                             Appraisal Est.imate
                                                           1.8
  1970                      4.6                                                     39
                                                           3.9
  1971                     10.8                                                     36
                                                           8.8
  1972                     16.2                                                     54
                                                          12.8
  1973                     21.4                                                     60
                                                        . 16•.0
  1974 .                   26.7                                                     60
                                                          18.5
  1975                     30.0                                    "-               62
                                                        .. 19.5
 . 1976                                                           c/                65
                                                          22.5
  1977                                                                              75




  !.1
        Initial amount of Loan US$30.0 million equivalent and closing date Dec. 31, 1974.
  b/
        Revised closing date of Loan:        September 30, 1977.
  c/
  - Actual final total disbursements US$22,514,154.74 equivalent.
    Loan Revisions:      US$2.0 million equivalent on December 5, 1972;
                         US$5.0 millio~ ~quivalent on April 3, 1974;
                         US$485,845.26 equivalent at the time of closing.
                                                                                                   ANNEX 6
                                                                                                   Table 1

                                                PROJECT COMPLETION'_ REPORT ..

                                     IRAN:    DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT ,(LOAN. _594....,IRN)

                                      Agribusiness Cropping Patterns in 19T7
                                                      (~n ha)




                             Iran              Iran         Iran           Iran        Galle         Total
    Perennial               America           California ·shellcott      International
    Alfalfa                   320               350           110         1,030              140     1,950
    Pasture                   120                               30           420                       570
    Fruits                    800                               30                            80       910
    Total                  1,240                350           170         1,450              220     3,430


    Winter
    Grains                 3,480              3,050         3,820         2,450          1,200      14,000
    Sugarbeets                550               600           480         1,510              350     3,490
    Vegetables                290                20           130                             20       460
    Joint Ventures '};_/                                      110                                      110
    Total                   4,320             3,670         4,540         3,960          1,570      18,060


    Summer
    .Corn & mile              360               600           470                                    1,430
    Cotton                    390                                                                      390
    Vegetables                 20                               10                                      30
1

    Joint Ventures 1/       2, 720            1, 770          410                            170     5,070
    Total                   3,490             2,370           890                            170     6,920


    Total Cropped          9,050              6,390         5,600         5,410          1,960      28,410
     Area



    Leveled Areas           3~300             4,213         ?,494         5,643          1,100      19,750
    Transfered Area        14,363            10, 777        8,314        14~162          4,010      51,626
     as of June 1977
    Allocated Area         20,485            10,536        17,399        16,744          4,010      69,174



    /1   Areas rented. out to imniigrant farmers.
                                                ,.,                                                               ..
                                                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                         IRAN:        DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN) .

                                            Cropping Patterns in the Project Area
                                                           (in ha) - · · ·



                      ------------Pre-project--------                   ----~-----Projected        l_/-------          -------Actual in 1978-------
                                                                            ·-----

                      Stage I
                                "!/                   ]j                           11              2/
                                      Stage II                Total     Stage I          Stage II - Total              Agribusiness    Farm        Total
                                                                                                                                       Corp,
Perennial
Alfalfa                                                                 8,000            6,570         14,570             1950           150      2,100
Pasture                                                                 2,000                           2,000              570                        570
Fruits                                    260                 260       2,000            2 2 490        4 2 490            910           180      1 2 090
Total                                     260                 260      12,000            9,060         21,060            3,430           330      3,760
Winter
Grains .             24,000           10,290               34,290      18,000            4,150         22,150           14,000         2,160     16,160
Sugarbeets                                                              4,000            4,010          8,010            3,490           550     /·4,040
Vegetables                             1,130                1,130       3,000            1, 720         4, 720             460           700       1,160
Bers um                                                                 3, oo!f'         1,800          4,800                            100         100
Oilseeds                                 500                     500    3,000            2,420          5,420                            340         340
Joint Ventures                                                                                                             llO                      llO
Others                2 2 000                               2 000       3,000                           3 2 000
Total                26,000           .U,920               37 !no      34,000           14,100         48,100           18~060         3,850     n,910
Summer
Rice                  5,000            1,070                6,070       6,000                           6,000                              50         50
Corn                                                                    4,ooo            4,010          8,010            1,430                   . 1,430
Cotton                                                                  4,000            3,260          7,260              390                      .390
Vegetables            2,000            1,460                3,460       3,000            1, 720         4, 720              30            170        200
Joint Ventures                                                                                                           5,070                     5,070
Oilseeds              2,000                                 2,000       3,000            2,1.20         5,420
Others                1,000                                 1 2 000     2,000·                          21000                              60        60
Total                10,000            2,530               12,530      22,000           11, 410        33,410            6,920            280     7,200
Grand Total        36,000             14, 710              50~710      68,000           34,570        102,570                         . 4 ,460
Net irrigable area 57 ,000            27,000               84,000      57,000           27,000         84,000
                                                                                                                        28,410_ --
                                                                                                                        69,200         11,500
                                                                                                                                                 32,870 1-3
                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                 80,700 ._..    g
                                                                                                                                                                11>
                                                                                                                                                            11> ~
1/ Appraiaal Report T0-687.March 3, 1969.
                                                                                                                                                            N   CJ\
2J Report PA-130,April 24, 1972,green cover
)j   At full development.
                                                                                     ANNEX 6
                                                                                    Table 3
                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                    IRAN:   DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)

                                       Stage I

                                  Status of Land Allocation
                                        -----------------Hectares---~---------
                                        8 tage I                      Stage II    Total
1.   Agribusiness
     Iran - .America                     8,830                       11,658       20 ~ 48.8
     Iran - Shellcot                     4,200                       13,199       17,399
     Iran - California                  10,536                                    10,536
     International                      16,744                                    16,744
     Galle                               4.010                                     4,010
        Subtotal                        44,320                       24,857       69 ,177
2.   Farm Corporations                   9,088                         2,800      11,888
3. ·P~i~~~~~Fa:i:1uing                   5,450                                     5,450
4 .- ·:,Others _____ _                 : 1,-536--                                  1,536
     Subtotal 2 to 4                    16~074                         2,800      18,874

                                       . - - . ta
     Total '"                          .60' 394--- --   --~ - -   - --2-7 6.5 7
                                                                          j       88,051
                                                                                              .   -       --
                                                                                                      -

5.   Haft Tapeh-Sugar Cane area                                                   11,100 /'E._
     TOTAL                                                                        99 ,_151




s_/ Gross area.
llJ Water supplies delivered to existing irrigation system at north boi.mdary
     through West Main Canal constructed under Stage                 r;
                                                               Annex 7 '

                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

         IRAN:    DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)

              Iran Shellcott Budget 1978
         Summarized Profit and Loss Statement
         for a 5,000 ha area, in Rls. '000




    Gross Margin jJ_               Total         Per Hectare
"
         Field Crops               3,200           0.64

"        Livestock                  (700)         (0.14)

         Total                     2,500           0.50

    Overhead Costs

          General                 68,900          13.78

         Amortization

            Land Development       14,700          2.94

            Soil Improvement       10,800          2.16

          Interest                14,100          14.82

          Total                   168,500         33.70

    Net Loss                      166,000         33 .. 20


    /1    Gross sales minus direct costs adjusted for
          stock changes.
                                                                            ANNEX 8
                                                                            Page 1


                                  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                     IRAN:     DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)

                                     Farm Corporations


..   1.        Four Farm Corporations--joint stock companies to which farmers turn

     over their assets for shares--were established in the Northern part of the

     former DIP on Class II lands with full water supply and excellent access to

     the town of Dezful.     The Government appointed and financed for each farm

     corporation seven to ten technicians including the managing director, or one

     technician for 180 ha of cultivated land.     Until the end of 1977, the Govern-

     ment had spent Rls 45 million (US$0.6 million) in grants and Rls 183 million

     (US$2.4 million) on the farm corporation, amounting to US$2,900 per shareholder.

     These investments had led in 1977/78 to a cropping pattern in which grains

     still pre-dominated with 49% compared to 60% in 1968/69.     Significant increases

     took place in vegetables (20% compared to 10% in 1968/69) and sugarbeet--a new

     crop--occupied 12% of the area in 1978.     Dividends have been distributed

     annually for all farm corporations ever since start-up.

     2.        The farm corporations complained about insufficient and slow progress
c


     in land leveling.     At the end of 1977, only slightly more than one third of

     the cultivated area had been leveled.     Marketing of crops particularly vege-

     tables had proved uncertain.     Costs of water, labor--a shortage existed--

     spare parts, costs of herbicides were found to be too high.       Machines were old

     and obsolete and needed urgent replacement.     The continued existence and

     proximity of private land created management problems.     Finally, many share-

     holders lived in the town of Dezful and did not take much interest in the
                                                                     ANNEX 8
                                                                     Page 2


operation of farm corporations.     National figures show that farm corporation

yields as well as water efficiencies decreased for important crops.

3.           It appears that farm corporations have not fared much better--if at

all-- than agribusiness firms.     In the first place, although they are smaller

than agribusiness firms, FCs were still oversized compared with the management

capabilities available at farm corporation level and in the implementing

agencies.     Related to this is the problem of mechanization and its appropriate-

ness in the circumstances prevailing in the project area.     Balanced mechaniza-

tion, appropriate technology has not yet been found.     Secondly, farm corpora-

tions had less financial problems than agribusiness firms because of continued

subsidies provided by Government.     The subsidies financed not only investment

costs but also salaries and perhaps other operating expenses.     Funds were

practically interest free.     It is not certain whether allowances have been

made for depreciation or whether the Government will replace the obsolete

machinery.     If the necessary adjustments were made, it is likely that no

dividends would be justified.     It appears, on the basis of insufficient

data, that farm corporations are only viable because of continued Government

support.

4.           Thirdly, the lack of interest exhibited by farm corporation share-

holders can be traced as follows.     The 1968 legislation enabled the Government

to establish farm corporations if 51% of the farmers accepted to join but the

Government could also establish farm corporations "under any circumstances 11

without the farmers' consent.     Since farmers had only just become beneficia-

ries of private lands through the land reform legislation it is likely that

the majority joined farm corporations more or less involuntarily.     The change
                                                                        ANNEX 8
                                                                        Page 3


     in status from self-employed farmers to that of agricultural laborer working

     under the direction of inexperienced managers, may have contributed to their

     lack of interest.   Farm corporations are likely to have stifled the very

     energies and initiatives set free by a successful land reform.

     5.        Fourthly, farm corporations do not provide incentives to small

     shareholders and landless laborers.   They have concentrated on increasing net

     profits and, therefore, dividends by attempting to limit labor wages.      The

     wage policy favors big shareholders who do not rely on FC wages and discourage

     smallholders and landless laborers who depend on them.   The results are

     further income disparities and shortages of labor.




{j
                                                                                   ..


                                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                 IRAN:     DEZ IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 594-IRN)

                                         Basic. Data for Farm Corporations


              Number    Total     Cultivated      Leveled      Crop         Staff                  Grants       Loans
             of Share   Area       Land            Land        Area      Provided by    Sheep     Received !/ Received
              Holders   (ha)        (ha)           (ha)        (ha)       Government             Rials (mil)  Rials (mil)

Shush          390      3,000       2,300          1,800       2,200          10         3,155      17.9         59.6

Dezful         269      2,900,      1,500            500       1,240          10        1,692         6.5        31.5

Dez            223      1,454       1,200            !J          290           7         3,893        9.0        51.2

Shamabad       235      1,464       1,460                      1,040           9        1,969       11. 7        40.5

   TOTAL     1,117      8,818       6,460          2,300       4, 770         36        10,709       45.1       182.8




1/ so far
'!:_/
   under leveling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ---...
                                             --------                          ........                                                                                                                                      ''   '\.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '   \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ' \.   '\.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                        "":::::::- _
                                                                                                                                                                                                - -=::::. -

                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map is based on IBRD 3804, January 1972 and
      0         2          4         6         8         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                  has been updated using additional information .
                         KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  It should be used in conjunction with map
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 3804 (PCR) B, October 1978.
     This map has been prepared by the World Bank 's staff exclusively for the convenience
     of the readers of the report to which it is attached. The denominations used and the
     boundaries shown on this map do not imply, on the part of the World Bank and its
     affiliates, any judgment on the legal status of any teffitory or any endorsement or
     acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                                                                                       70?                                                                         IRAN
                                                                                                                                                            Dez Irrigation Project Stages I and II
             TURKEY
                                                                                          U.S.S. R.                                                                    Areas Covered by Project Contracts
                                                                                                                             ----Greater Dez Project boundary                                                                OTHER FEATURES :
                                                                                                                             ••• ••••••• Pilot area boundary                                                  - - - - - Project Stage I boundaries
                                                                                                 I AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                 '>                                             CONTRACT AREAS :                                              - - - - Project Stage TI boundaries
                                                                                                  \
                                                                                                      \.. .                                       Stage I :                                                   --- - -             Haft Tapeh Sugarcane Area
                                                                                                         )            30°
                                                                                                                             ,: -
                                                                                                                             .....    :-
                                                                                                                                   : :-       : :"""':j Contract GD 102
                                                                                                                                        : :-: -                                                                                   boundary
                                                                                                        <- · - . -· ~ · '
ARAB
RE PUBLIC
                                                                                                          \ .
                                                                                                              ...,
                                                                                                              '\PAKISTAN     RSQOOOI Contract                          GD 104                                 = =-      = Rivers                                                                    OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              _ _.....___....._ Canals
OF EGYPT                                                                                                                     1--- ----1jContract                       GD 107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;:io
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              - - - - Asphalt roods                                                        0  w
                               SAUD I                                          ~·
                                                                                                                                                  Stage TI:                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _, 00
                                                         ·,                     .                                                                                                                             ----Roads                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                            UNITEOARAB EMIRATES/                                                                         /;
                                                                                                                             ...,....V/;.....,.  ..,...,,....,.../11~ Contract GD I08
                                                                                                                                                ./J;
                                         ARABIA
                                                              '- · - · --'.·                                                                                                                                  +---1--+- Railroads                                                          CJ)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           m        ""'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -0
                                                                           )OMAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
ZOO SUDAN                                                                 i                                           20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....,   ;:io
                        40°                                                                           60°                                                                                                                                                                                  00       )>
