Report No. PIC4503
Project Name                   Armenia-Agriculture Reform Support Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     AMPA35806
Borrower                       Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Food and Agriculture
48 Nalbandian Street, Yerevan, 375010
Republic of Armenia
Minister Vladimir Movsisian
374 2 57-07-51 Telephone
374 39 07192 Facsimile
Environment Category           B
Date this PID Updated          November 26, 1996
Projected Appraisal            3-10-97
Projected Board Date           7-3-97
Peer Reviewers                 R. Southworth (EC3AI)
Country and Macro-Economic Background
I.   Armenia is a country of 3.7 million people situated on a crossroads
between Europe, the former Soviet Union, and the Middle East. Since
Independence in September 1991, the Armenian Government has been drawn
primarily from the Armenian National Movement (ANM); few Soviet-era
senior officials have remained in office. The ANM has pursued the
objectives of consolidating national independence and promoting market
reform. A very high degree of integration into the FSU economy induced
economic collapse in Armenia when the intra-FSU trade, payments and
financial system broke down. More fundamentally, the elimination of
non-market pricing in trade between FSU states imposed a severe terms of
trade shock on Armenia, particularly due to the sharp rise in energy
import prices. The lack of comparative advantage of significant parts
of Armenia's productive base was exposed.
II. A strong commitment to a reorientation of the role of government
away from direct intervention in production has been established.
Furthermore, the implementation of a comprehensive stabilization and
structural reform program since early 1994 has served to reinforce the
coordination between ministries to a significant extent. Moreover, the
adoption of the new Constitution has initiated a radical restructuring
of government agencies.
III. Progress on reorienting government in the transition to the market
economy has accelerated with an easing of the regional political
situation. Initially, the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh led to a trade
and transport blockade by Azerbaijan (traditionally Armenia's principal
transit route for oil, gas and other products) and the closure of the



Turkish border. However, there have been several recent positive
developments in Armenia's relations with its neighbors. A formal
ceasefire with Azerbaijan was signed in 1994, and there have been signs
of a rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. These developments offer
a real prospect of a lifting of the blockade in the near future. In
addition, rapidly-growing trade with Iran and greater stability in
Georgia have eased Armenia's isolation.
IV. Progress in implementing a stabilization program has been
impressive since mid-1994. Inflation of over 2,000 percent in 1993 was
reduced to 26 percent in 1995. The fiscal deficit declined from 48.2
percent of GDP in 1993 to 8.7 percent in 1995. The nominal exchange rate
has been broadly stable since the Spring of 1994. After an estimated 60
percent decline in GDP in 1991-93, growth of GDP has been 5 percent
annually in 1994-95. The current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) declined to 26.4 percent of GDP in 1995 from 35.5 percent in
1994. This has been accompanied by an accumulation of foreign exchange
reserves equivalent to 1.5 months of imports (twice the 1994 level).
V.   However, these achievements in GDP growth and external adjustment
remain fragile, and poverty has become pervasive (particularly in urban
areas, where people have limited access to agricultural land). Average
monthly wages in the state sector were about US$17 in July 1995 (in the
budgetary sector they were only about US$8) and average old age pensions
about US$5. Although wages are often supplemented by informal sector
income, social assistance, remittances from abroad, and humanitarian
aid, survey data reveal consumption levels barely above subsistence for
large parts of the population. Recorded unemployment is 5 percent of
the labor force and a further 15 to 30 percent are estimated to be on
involuntary unpaid leave or reduced pay for shortened working hours.
Agricultural Sector Background
VI. Traditionally, Armenia has been a net importer of food and
agricultural products, mainly grain and meat and dairy products. At the
same time, a high proportion of vegetables, grapes, and fruits were
exported in the form of fresh and processed produce, wines, and
brandies. Total agricultural production fell only about 4-5w between
1991 and 1995, but the relative importance of agriculture in the
national economy has increased. Even though levels of consumption are
lower than before independence, the country has remained a net food
importer.
VII. On the policy front, Armenia has implemented one of the most
comprehensive land reform programs in the FSU Republics. By the end of
1992, most of the agricultural land had been privatized, with over
300,000 individual farms formed in the process. Concurrent with land
reform, the GOA dismantled the state order system, liberalized producer
prices and most input prices and eliminated aost all subsidies (some
degree of implicit subsidization is still accorded users of irrigation
water in higher elevation areas). Despite delays in 1993-4, the
privatization of agro-processing has proceeded well in 1995-96.
However, the reform process needs to be deepened in a number of areas if
agriculture is to fully harness its potential, thereby increasing
marketable surpluses (both on domestic markets and for export) and rural
income. The priority areas are the creation of a self-sustaining rural
-2 -



finance system, restructuring of privatized agricultural industries, and
reforming institutions inherited from the Soviet period.
VIII.     Rural Finance.   The credit resources flowing to the rural
sector are well below the levels which current estimated
creditworthiness of the sector would justify. This credit is necessary
to farms for restructuring their output profile and making small
investments in on-farm processing, and to non-farmers for the expansion
of storage, marketing, and input supply. Recent studies show that over
30t of the private farmers could service loans of $0 per annum or more,
a total of about $ million annually. The main obstacles to such lending
by commercial banks are the following: high costs of obtaining knowledge
on potential borrowers and developing a network of local outlets for
lending, high interest rates charged by commercial banks (a function of
high deposit rates which they must offer to overcome their lack of
credibility in the eyes of the public), and lack of adequate
registration of land and other real estate to support expansion of
collateral-based lending.
IX. Restructuring of Agro-Industry. Agro-processing is in deep crisis.
The fruit and vegetable canning industry is working at about 10 percent
of capacity utilization while capacity utilization in meat processing
is only 2 percent. The wine/brandy subsector has declined from providing
about 50t of agro-processing output in the late 1980's to about 20t in
1995. Recent studies indicate that a number of livestock, vegetable and
vegetable, and wine and cognac processing factories could potentially be
profitably restructured. Here, the main obstacles is lack of management
expertise and ability to attract foreign investment. If these
enterprises were able to draft reasonable business plans for
restructuring to target import competing and export products, the flow
of credit and foreign investment to privatized agro-processing
enterprises could be substantially increased.
X.   Agricultural Institutions.   Given the reorientation of the farming
sector from large state and collective farms to small individual farms,
the new farm managers lack sufficient technical skills and crop specific
information on input usage. An Armenian Extension Service within the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture MOFA) has been established and is
operating in a number of regions, but it is insufficiently capitalized
in terms of information technology and transport means to be able to
meet the growing demand for its services. The flow of well trained
managers into primary agriculture and agribusiness is weak given the
poor quality and outdated nature of educational materials in the
Agricultural Academy (the newly consolidated system of agricultural
education institutions). Both agricultural extension and education are
urgently in need of support if the managerial and technical level of the
future class of farm managers is to be significantly improved. The
agricultural research system is also in need of reorganization and could
potentially use investments profitably if it were to re-focus its work
plan on issues of direct commercial application by the agricultural
sector.
Objectives
XI. The most critical measures that will determine the further success
-3 -



of reforms in the sector and the recovery of food and agriculture in
general are: a) the timely development of a working rural financial
system to support privatized agriculture, farmers, and processors; b)
the successful restructuring of privatized agro-processing enterprises
and rekindling of demand for processable primary agricultural products;
c) the expansion of the current land deed recording system into a title
registration system for transactions in land and other real estate which
is capable of generalizing the practice of pledging collateral for
working capital and investment loans; and d) the strengthening of
agricultural support services which can both transfer information on
agricultural practices and farm management and deliver commercially
usable agricultural research results.
Description
XII. The total proposed Project size by component is as follows:
(a)  Agricultural Cooperative Bank of Armenia (ACBA) (US$7.0
million) for financing an expansion of the rural credit system
being developed under the ACBA (from the current level of
US$2.0 million). This component would increase the funds
available to rural borrowers (in primary agriculture, storage,
small-scale food processing, and small-scale non-agricultural
businesses) through the ACBA's (currently) sixty local village
associations and three regional branches.
(b)  Title Registration System for Land and Other Real Estate
(US$4.0 million) for introducing a pilot for a unified
registry system of both rural and urban land and other real
estate by investing in 1) mapping and surveying of land
parcels and dwellings and 2) equipping ten or more regional
registration offices.
(c)  Institutional Strengthening (US$4.0 million) with financing
for: (i) expanding the geographic breadth and density of
coverage of the rural population under the Armenian
Agricultural Extension Service; (ii) investments in
retraining the teaching staff for higher agricultural and
agribusiness education, the provision of teaching materials
available in Armenian, and improvements in access to
international sources of library information; and (iii)
critical investments in the agricultural research system to
initiate its reorientation to meet the needs of a market
agricultural system.
(d)  Agribusiness Development Center (US$2.0 million) for co-
financing the initial critical investments in equipment and
training for an agribusiness center to provide privatized
agribusiness enterprises with training and information
regarding enterprise restructuring, business plan formulation,
market demand profiles, and sourcing of both raw agricultural
products and capital goods.
(e) Project Management. (US$1.0 million) support for project
management activities, including training of registry office
- 4 -



personnel under the Title registration component, and
accounting, procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and
evaluation of all project components.
Financing
XIII.     The total cost of the Project is US$18.0 million, of which the
foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$13.0 million, or 76t of the
total costs. Co-financing of the Project is currently being sought from
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The Bank
loan's share of total costs would be US$10.0 million (55 percent), the
IFAD share would be US$5.0 million (28 percent), the ACBA share would be
US$2.0 million (11 percent), and the GOA share would be US$1.0 millon (6
percent). The Bank would wholly finance the Agribusiness Development
Center, as well shares of the remaining project components. The IFAD
would partially finance the Rural Finance and Institutional
Strengthening components. ACBA would partially finance the Rural
Finance Component. The GOA share partially cover local currency
expenditures under the Title Registration, Institutional Strengthening,
and Project Management components.
Implementation
XIV. The project would be carried out under the overall coordination and
supervision of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) through the
Project Management Committee (PMC) and its staff. The head of the PIU
would be the Project Director and principal link between the Bank and
the Government. The Project Management Committee would be established
consisting of the Minister (Chairman), the Project Director, the
Chairman of the ACBA, the Director of the Agricultural Extension
Service, heads of the participating agricultural research and education
institutions, and the Deputy Minister of Urban Development responsible
for the registration of real property. The PMC would be responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the institutional strengthening and
rural finance components.
Sustainability
XV. To successfully serve as the conduit for the rural finance
component, the ACBA will need to become a true member-owned and
capitalized cooperative bank. It must develop a disciplined, market-
based financial intermediation strategy, prepare and implement sound
lending procedures adapted to Armenia's legal, social, and economic
environment. It will also have to build the institutional capabilities
of its village associations to manage and protect the bank's funds
invested in their communities. For the post-privatization component for
agro-processing, it will be necessary during project preparation to
evaluate the Armenian commercial banks which are receiving training in
agricultural sector lending (currently ArmAgroBank, Anelik Bank, and
others).
XVI. Local budget availability for the Title Registration, Institutional
Strengthening, and Project Management components must be carefully
assessed. Bilaterally financed technical assistance to support the
implementation of all the components is being sought, and in the cases
- 5 -



of rural finance and agricultural extension such technical assistance is
already being provided by the EU and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Lessons from Past Bank Experience
XVII.     The project would support areas where the Bank has
considerable experience (e.g. rural finance, post-privatization, title
registration, extension). The results of the current evaluation of best
practices in rural finance are being taken into account will be conveyed
to the Project Preparation Unit. The lessons learned from the various
title registration components under implementation and preparation
particularly in the ECA region (but in other regions as well) will be
incorporated into the design of the Title Registration component. One
of the major challenges in this component is to resolve the
institutional responsibility issue of what ministry or agency should
mange an integrated registry of both rural and urban land and other real
estate.
XVIII.    Experience from the Irrigation Rehabilitation Credit shows
that the Government can administer and implement a project within an
agreed timetable if the objectives are clearly defined. Nevertheless,
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Credit also demonstrates the importance of
technical assistance, especially to be able to manage procurement and
disbursements in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Given appreciation
of the real exchange rate in Armenia in the recent past, considerable
effort will be focused during project preparation on forecasting the
degree of further appreciation in order to avoid future cost-overruns in
the project's investment components.
Poverty Category
XIX. This project is not explicitly focused on poverty alleviation. It
concentrates on the development of the rural finance system and the
rekindling of demand from agricultural processing enterprises for
primary agricultural produce. It thereby has strong linkages to a large
number of small-scale private farmers. By addressing both credit supply
and product demand aspects of the current underutilization of Armenian
agricultural potential, the project would have a measurable impact of
rural poverty. Project monitoring indicators will be devised to
evaluate the degree of this impact. The sectoral institutional
strengthening and title registration components would also improve
agricultural practices and farms' ability to borrow in the medium term.
They would therefore have an indirect impact on poverty reduction as
well.
Environmental Aspects
XX. No significant negative environmental impacts are anticipated from
this project. The project was classified as category "B" because the
rural finance and agricultural extension components could promote use of
off-farm inputs such as agro-chemicals and fertilizers. All agro-
chemicals and fertilizers promoted by the Agricultural Extension Service
under the project would be in accordance with OD 4.03.
Program Objective Categories
-6-



XXI. This project supports the Bank's program objectives of private
sector development, environmentally sustainable development, and
sectoral economic management.
Project Benefits and Risks
XXII.     The growth of agriculture is likely to lead to overall income
growth in Armenia and have a knock-on effect on the demand for output of
other sectors. It is therefore of paramount importance to make sure
sufficient credit to purchase off-farm inputs is available and
accessible. The rural finance and title registration components will
focus on achieving these benefits. The support of post-privatization
would benefit the participating agricultural processing enterprises
through expanded output and profits, but would also have crucial
backward linkages to primary agriculture. Support of post-privatization
would also facilitate upgrading the quality of food exports and increase
Armenian competitiveness in international markets. Other benefits of
the project are associated with the positive impact of supporting
research and development of improved crop and seed varieties, and
demonstrating new and improved agricultural technologies to Armenian
farmers.
XXIII.    Risks are mainly related to the viability of the agro-
processing industry. Given its past dependence on the export market for
the majority of its output, re-penetration of the export market by
Armenian food processors is key. The current blockade situation which
Armenia faces clearly needs to be remedied if the food processing
industry is to recover. Without the recovery of this sector, demand for
primary agricultural products will continue to be low: this will be a
major demand constraint on further agricultural sector growth,
especially for high value crops which Armenian agricultural is designed
to grow.
Contact Point:      Mark R. Lundell, Task Manager EC4NR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-4655
Fax No.: (202) 522-0073
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 6, 1996.
- 7 -



