Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. 17141 AM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARMENIA
AGRICULTURAL REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
December 12, 1997
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December, 8, 1997)
Currency Unit = Dram
December 8,1997 1SUS= 500 Dram
October 15,1996 1SUS= 420 Dram
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ARMENIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA       Armenian Agricultural Academy
AAS       Agricultural Academy of Science
ADC       Agribusiness Development Center
ABSC       Armenian Business Support Center
ACBA       Agricultural Cooperative Bank of Armenia
ASC       Agriculture Support Center
AMD        Armenian Dram
AME       Agricultural Marketing Enterprise
ANM        Armenian National Movement
ARC       Agricultural Research Council
ARSP       Agricultural Reform Support Project
BAC       Business Advisory Center
CBA       Central Bank of Armenia
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States
EU-FSP       European Union - Food Security Program
FSU       Former Soviet Union
GOA       Government of Armenia
IAS      International Accounting Standards
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICMA       International City/Country Management Association
IDA      International Development Association
IS     International Shopping
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
LIBOR       London Interbank Offered Rate
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
Vice President:        Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Judy O'Connor
Sector Director:       Kevin Cleaver
Team Leader:           Mark Lundell



MOEP       Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOFE       Ministry of Finance and Economy
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NMP       Net Material Product
OJSC       Open-Joint Stock Companies
PFI      Participating Financial Institution
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PHRD       Participation and Human Resources Development
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
RU       Regional Unions
SCA       State Cadastral Administration
SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
USDA       United States Department of Agriculture
VAT       Value Added Tax



I



ii
ARMENIA
AGRICULTURAL REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                                              iii
CHAPTER 1. BACKGROUND .....................................................1I
A. Introduction ......................................................I
B. The Policy Agenda .......................................................2
C. Agricultural Sector ......................................................5
D.  Constraints to IncreasedAgricultural Productivity .......................................................                                     7
E. Bank's Experience and Strategy .....................................................                                                         10
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT ......................................................                                                                          13
A. Project Origin and Formulation .....................................................                                                         13
B. Project Objectives and Description ......................................................                                                    13
C. Cost Estimates ..................................................... 17
D. Financing .....................................................                                                                              17
E. Procurement .....................................................                                                                            18
F. Disbursement .....................................................                                                                          20
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................                                                                 22
A. Organization and Management .....................................................                                                            22
B. Accounts andAudit .....................................................                                                                     27
C. The Reporting and Evaluation .....................................................                                                           28
CHAPTER 4. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .                                                                     ..................................... 30
A. Benefits ......................................................                                                                              30
B. Risks .....................................................                                                                                  31
C. Economic Analysis ......................................................                                                                    32
D. Sustainability ......................................................                                                                       34
E. Environmental Impact .....................................................                                                                  36
F. Poverty .....................................................                                                                                36
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 37
A. Conditions ofAppraisal .....................................................                                                                  37
B. Conditions for Negotiations .....................................................                                                             37
C. Agreements to be Reached During Negotiations ......................................................                                            38
D. Recommendation ......................................................                                                                         38
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal missions (February and June 1997). Mission members
included: M. Lundell (Mission Leader), S. Mitrovic, J. Holl, B. Klose, M. Sahatdjian, L. Zuidema. The
report was finalized on the basis of an appraisal mission (October 1997).






-iii-
ARMENIA
AGRICULTURAL REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Agriculture
Beneficiaries:         Private farmers, agro-industrial enterprises, participating financial institutions, land
owners, and agricultural institutions
Amount:                 SDR 10.7 million (US $14.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 35 years maturity, including a 10 year grace period, on standard IDA terms
Commitment Fee:        0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver
Onlending Terms:       Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) would have the option of borrowing (and
lending) project funds in either dollars or Drains. The period of each loan to the
PFI would be 10-15 years. Dollar denominated borrowing by PFIs would be at a
floating LIBOR-based interest rate, to be adjusted semi-annually, plus a spread of
up to 1.5 percentage points. Interest rates on Dram denominated loans would be
fixed on the basis of the average weighted interest rate for the previous 3 months,
of the 30 day funds auctioned under Central Bank of Armenia's (CBA's) Credit
Auction. Interest rates on Dram loans would be adjusted quarterly. PFIs would
repay interest semi-annually on both Dram and dollar based loans, with the first
payment after six months, and the principle would be paid at the end of the loan
period. PFIs would be required to on-lend to private enterprises in the rural sector
for sub-loans with term-to-maturities of up to five years for fixed investments and
working capital. Interest rates charged to enterprises would be market determined.
Financing Plan:
National     Foreign        Iolal
--------------US $ million----------------
IDA                              5.177        9.323        14.500
Government of Armenia            5.315                      5.315
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             10.492        9.323        19.815
Cofinancing:           The UK Know How Fund and US Agency for International Development are
finalizing technical assistance commitments.
Project Objectives:    The overall objective of the Agricultural Reform Support Project is to increase
agricultural productivity in Armenia by supporting the development of private
sector farming, agro-processing, and strengthening of agricultural institutions and
services. The intermediate goals of the project are to develop an agricultural credit



-iv-
system and target the needs of small farmers in agricultural research, extension,
and provision of market information.
Project Description:     The project consists of three components designed to accomplish the following: (a)
provide loans for working capital and investments to small, rural farms and
businesses; (b) provide agribusiness training and technical assistance in project
finance to private agricultural processing and marketing enterprises to assist them
in post-privatization restructuring; and (c) initiate the restructuring of public
services in the agricultural sector by focusing on research and extension involving
small farmers.
Project Benefits:        The primary beneficiaries of this project are private farmers and agro-processing
enterprises. The line of credit, to be used primarily by small and medium-sized
farmers, is expected to result in productivity gains by allowing them to increase
farm input use and yields, upgrade small-scale storage and processing technology,
and improve marketing capabilities. Training in agribusiness is designed to
facilitate the flow of loans from commercial banks (using the Enterprise
Development project line of credit as well as other sources) to the agribusiness
sector. The restructuring of agricultural institutions and services would allow them
to provide a wider coverage of the country with important information regarding
sustainable small-scale farming techniques, availability of inputs, market prices
and opportunities.
Environniental           The project has been classified as category "B" in the Bank's environmental rating.
Aspects:                 Investments financed under the line of credit will likely promote the use of agro-
chemicals and fertilizers, but the improvement of extension services will promote a
focus on sustainable agricultural practices. PFIs will work with the Agricultural
Support Centers to monitor the proper use of ago-chemicals and fertilizers in
conformity with Armenian laws. The remaining components of the project are not
expected to have a detrimental impact on the environment.
Project Risks:           Project related risks include the following:  (a) resurgence of macro-economic
instability that could deter enterprises from borrowing and commercial banks from
lending; (b) participating financial institution's failure to aggressively promote the
project's line of credit because of inexperience with investment lending; and (c)
lack of sufficient inclusion of small farmers' interests and participation in the
setting of priorities for the restructured agricultural research, extension, and
education institutions. In the event of a serious regression in the macro-economic
situation, consideration would need to be given to limiting the on-lending to farmers
in foreign currency since the foreign exchange risk would likely increase to
unsustainable levels. The implementation risks associated with the credit to farmers
component would be mitigated through the provision of technical assistance and
training to PFIs.
Economic Rate Of         Given the lack of significant distortions between local prices and border prices, the
Return:                  economic rates of return would be in line with the financial rates: these are
measurable only for the credit line component, where lending at market rates will
implicitly require that borrowers' returns are above 15% in real terms.



Estimated Closing       December 31, 2002
Dat.:
Poverty Category        The project is not explicitly focused on poverty alleviation. It is focused on the
development of the rural finance system and the rekindling of demand from
agricultural processing enterprises for primary agricultural produce. Therefore, it
has strong linkages to a large number of small-scale private farmers. As such, it
would help increase poor farmers access to formal credit. The agricultural
institutional strengthening component would also improve agricultural practices and
farmers' abilities to borrow in the medium term. Thus, the project will have an
indirect, but substantial impact on poverty reduction.
Project ID:             AM-PE-35806
Map:                   28874
Project Cost Summary (US $ million)
National        Foreign       Total    % Foreign    % of
Exchange    Cost
Credit to Farmers                       2.000           5.500       7.500        73%        40.4%
Agribusiness Development Center         0.753           0.475       1.228        39%         6.6%
Agricultural Institutions               5.757          2.817        8.574        33%        46.1%
Project Implementation Unit*            1.099           0.184       1.283        14%         6.9%
Total Base Cost                         9.609           8.976       18.585       48%       100.0%
Contingencies**                         0.883           0.347        1.230       28%         6.9%
Total Project Cost                     10.492           9.323       19.815       47%       106.9%
*Includes US $0.332 million of PPF for preparation of former title registration component which has been made a separate project.
**Contingenci^s are calculated on Base Cost less the amount of the Credit to Farmers component and the PPF.
Disbursements Projections (US $ millions)
FY 1998      FY 1999        FY 2000        FY 2001       FY 2002
Annual                    3.536         5.768         4.035          3.483          1.762
Cumulative                3.536         9.305         13.340         16.823         18.585
Cumulative Contingencies   0.234        0.616         0.883          1.113          1.230
Grand Total - Cumulative    3.771       9.920         14.223         17.937         19.815






CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1       Armenia covers an area of 29,800 km 2 and shares borders with Georgia, Turkey,
Iran and Azerbaijan. Altitudes vary from 400 m to 4,000 m above sea level. Two-thirds of the
total land area is covered by high plateaux and mountains, and most of Armenia is at an altitude
of 1,000 m or above. In 1997 the total population is estimated at 3.68 million, at a population
density of about 123 per km2. Population density per km2 of arable and grazing land is roughly
double this figure. About 69% of the population is concentrated in the urban areas. Yerevan (the
capital city) alone has 1.4 million inhabitants or about 38% of the total population.
Administratively, the country is divided into II marzes, including Yerevan. The smallest
administrative unit is the village, of which there are some 930.
1.2       Armenia became an independent country in May 1991 following the disintegration
of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). It is now a member of the Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS). Since independence, the Government of Armenia (GOA) has been drawn primarily
from the Armenian National Movement (ANM) party. The ANM has pursued the objectives of
consolidating national independence and promoting market reform. A very high degree of
integration into the FSU economy induced economic collapse in Armenia when the inter-FSU
trade, payments and financial system broke down. More fundamentally, the elimination of non-
market pricing in trade between FSU states imposed a severe terms of trade shock on Armenia,
particularly due to the sharp rise in energy import prices. This exposed the lack of comparative
advantage for significant parts of Armenia's productive base. Facing these difficulties, the GOA
has shown a strong commitment to a re-orientation of the role of government in the country's
economy. The adoption of the new national constitution has initiated a thorough restructuring of
government agencies. Furthermore, the implementation of a comprehensive stabilization and
structural reform program since early 1994 has reinforced the coordination between ministries in
priority setting and policy formulation.
1.3       Progress on re-orienting government in the transition to the market economy has
accelerated with an easing of the regional political situation. Initially, the conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh led to a trade and transport blockade by Azerbaijan (traditionally Armenia's principal
transit route for oil, gas, and other products) and the closure of the Turkish border. However,
there have been several positive developments in Armenia's relations with its neighbors. A
formal cease-fire with Azerbaijan was singed in 1994, and there have been signs of a
rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. These developments offer a real prospect of
lifting the blockade on Armenia in the near future. In addition, rapidly-growing trade with Iran
and greater stability in Georgia have eased Armenia's isolation. Progress in implementing a
stabilization program has been impressive since mid-1994. The fiscal deficit declined from
48.2% of GDP in 1993 to 8.8 in 1996. The nominal exchange rate has been broadly stable since
the Spring of 1994. After an estimated 60% decline in GDP in 1991-93, growth of GDP has
been 6% annually in 1994-96. The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) declined
to 26.5% of GDP in 1996 from 35.5% in 1994. This has been accompanied by an accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves equivalent to 2.25 months of imports (three times the 1994 level).



2                                                                        Background
1.4       However, these achievements in GDP growth and external adjustment remain
fragile, and poverty has become pervasive (particularly in urban areas, where people have
limited access to agricultural land). Average monthly wages were about US $36 in December
1996 (in the budgetary sector they were only about US $12) and average old age pensions about
US $7. Although wages are often supplemented by informal sector income, social assistance,
remittances from abroad, and humanitarian aid, survey data reveal consumption levels barely
above subsistence levels for large parts of the population. While recorded unemployment is only
5% of the labor force, a further 15% to 30% are estimated to be on involuntary unpaid leave or
reduced pay for shortened working hours.
B. The Policy Agenda
1.5       Despite the initial success following introduction of the reform programs, the new
market economy is still in a transition stage - tax collection remains haphazard, and the
productive sector has not fully been adjusted to new economic signals. For the GOA to achieve
complete transition and recovery in the food and agricultural sector, the following major
measures are required:
a) the timely development of a working rural financial system to support privatized agriculture,
farmers, and processors;
b) the successful restructuring of privatized agro-processing enterprises and rekindling of
demand for processed agricultural products;
c) the implementation of a registration system for transactions in land and other real estate
which is capable of standardizing determination of collateral for working capital and
investment loans; and,
d) the strengthening of agricultural support services which can both transfer information on
agricultural practices and farm management, and deliver commercially usable agricultural
research results. These elements are currently being addressed by the GOA and are briefly
described below.
1.6 -     Privatization of Enterprises. The privatization process in Armenia began in March
1995, with a goal of privatizing 700 medium/ large enterprises by the end of 1995. Many pieces
of supporting legislation have also been enacted: in July, 1994 a foreign investment law was
passed, and in May, 1995 a bankruptcy and collateral law was approved. The primary methods
of privatization are vouchers, sales via auctions through cash and vouchers, and tenders. The
management and employees of most enterprises either were entitled to 20% of enterprise shares
for free or had the option of buying 20% of enterprise shares through closed subscription. The
rest of the shares were offered through open subscription. As of April, 1997, 609 medium/large
enterprises had been privatized, with the number of completely privatized agro-processing
enterprises totaling 163 (19 wine factories, 18 canning factories, 10 mineral water enterprises, 34
milk processing plants, 17 large bakeries, and 65 other sub-branch enterprises). Of these 163
enterprises, 134 became OJSCs, 23 are closed joint stock companies, 5 enterprises were sold at
auction, and 1 was sold through international tender. Only 6 of these privatized agro-processing
enterprises had received foreign investments by mid-1997. The remaining 155 agro-industrial
enterprises are in the pipeline to be privatized by June 1998.
1.7        The main obstacles to increased foreign investment in agro-industry. The export
orientation of Armenian agro-processing is toward wine, fruit and vegetable production, but the
current blockade restricts the flow of the products to the FSU and other countries by truck and by



Chapter 1                                                                         3
railroad. Some high-value products are exported by air, but this is not feasible for most processed
agricultural products. On the other hand the demand on domestic markets for such products is
increasingly strong, as evidenced by the extensive presence of imported processed products.
Large-scale processing of fruit and vegetables could resume to serve an expanding and accessible
domestic market, but it is evidently a high risk in the current economic situation. Thus, the
tension in the region stemming from the dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan over
Nagorno-Karabakh and the resulting transport difficulties and high costs are the main obstacles
for potential investors in the region in general, and in Armenia in particular. Looking toward
future export market growth, however, the GOA joined the International Standard Association
(ISO) in mid-1994. At present, the ISO 9000 regulations packaging system is being gradually
implemented in Armenia.
1.8       Land Privatization.  Before privatization, the cultivated agricultural land areas
within the collective and state farms of the Republic of Armenia consisted of about 46% of the
total area (2,974,000 hectares), of which arable land covered 495,000 hectares, perennials
covered 84,000 hectares, meadows 138,000 hectares, pastures 666,000 hectares, and collective
property horticultural unions covered 6,000 hectares. In January, 1991, Armenia enacted the
"Law on the peasant cooperative farms," according to which three forms of ownership were
established: property of citizens, collective property, and state property. Arable land was
distributed as private property to more than 320,000 farmers on free of charge basis. The non-
land assets of the dissolved collective and state farms were privatized in the same way (livestock,
equipment, specialized units, etc.). Although farmers were allocated 80% of the arable land,
20% remained under the community as a reserve fund (and pasture land was held in state
ownership). The land in this fund can be leased by the community council to individuals for
agricultural purposes.
1.9       The privatized land has been distributed by the committees that were established in
the communities according to the following principles: families of up to three persons were
allocated one land parcel. Families consisting of four to six persons received two land parcels,
families with seven or more members got three land parcels. Thus, land was given to the family
and the head of the family was registered as an owner (farmer) and received a temporary
certificate of a right to ownership by the privatization committee. Since in each of the
communities the privatized areas and the number of the land parcels are different, the sizes of the
lands received by the landowners are also different (0.3 - 15 hectares). The land surveys carried
out by the privatization committees were not often done properly.  Thus, the job of future
precise surveys, mapping, and parcel identification, and evaluation and preparation of property
deeds (state acts) was delegated to the "Armgiprozem" Institute (operating under the Ministry of
Agriculture). To date, 85,000 state acts have been prepared, while another 250,000 await
preparation and issue to land owners. The lack of funds has slowed down the work and restricted
the geographical coverage of the survey mainly to the agricultural areas near Yerevan .
1.10      Establishment of a Land Registration and Land Cadaster System. In December 27,
1995, the National Assembly passed the "Law on the Real Property," in which land is defined as
real property and owners are given well clarified rights and obligations to this property. In July
1997, the GOA established a property registration system by a decree on the "Establishment of
the State Cadastral System." According to this decree, a unified state cadastral service for
property registration was established as the State Cadastral Administration (SCA) under the
Ministry of Justice. The main tasks of the SCA are to: (i) register the specific attributes of
individual pieces of land and other real estate - i.e., location and sizes, property owners and their
legal status, rights and obligations such as leases, mortgages, condominium, and other



4                                                                      Background
indemnities, and property sales; and, (ii) accumulate and distribute data on these attributes as
well as those regarding assessed values of real property and adjudicated boundary disputes. The
information collected in the cadastral system will be made available to taxation inspection
authorities, realty enterprises or agents, and banks and other interested organizations or
individuals.
1.11      According to an earlier GOA decree (in March, 1996) on the property registration
system, the draft preparation work on property registration and cadastral issues and its
submission to the GOA was delegated to the Ministries of Urban Development, Agriculture,
Finance and Economy, Justice, and the Yerevan City Municipality. A commission was formed
from the representatives of these bodies. It has been given the task of developing a draft law on
Real Property Registration. This law should give legal force to the SCA's specific activities and
establish the legal principles governing registration and government accountability for the
accuracy of the information in the registration system.
1.12      The registration system being set up by the SCA will have its units in each of the
marzes (provinces) and be responsible not only for the organization of surveying and mapping,
collection of inforrnation, issuing of titles, and answering infornation requests through title
reports, but also for the land dispute adjudication and settling of land problems. They are also to
cooperate with different bodies of justice, such as the notary service offices, to document
changes connected with the legal status of property, such as the provision of easement rights' and
settlement of disputes occurring over their use. In cases when the local registry offices of the
SCA will not be able to resolve the disputes in the field, the case will be sent to the court to be
addressed through the justice system.
1.13      Restructuring the Banking Sector. The monetary crisis and currency depreciation
prevailing in Armenia in 1993-94 eroded the real values of nominal claims, including the bank's
deposits and loan portfolios, as well as confidence in the currency and the banking system. In
order to restore confidence in the banking sector several measures were introduced by the GOA
under an IMF financial restructuring program. A key feature of the program was the
establishment of the independence of the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) to conduct and
manage monetary policy. This was followed by a new Banking Law that gives the CBA's
supervisors sufficient authority to enforce prudential rules, regulations, and sanctions, and the
power to regulate financial markets, and to liquidate banks. These expanded powers imply a
wider role for the CBA and have strengthened the legal regulatory framework for banking in
general (Annex A presents the current situation with several banks).
1.14      The GOA has also promoted the orderly consolidation and merger of small private
commercial banks that do not meet the minimum capital requirements. Under the IMF program,
technical assistance was provided to the CBA's banking supervision department to help
strengthen its supervisory and regulatory capabilities and to implement these measures. As a
result of this program, the conditions for lending have improved significantly: i) average
monthly inflation for the period January through September 1997 was down to 1.5%; ii) thirty
one banks have been certified under the new CBA prudential regulations; iii) at least five banks
have completed International Accounting Standards (IAS) audits and therefore become potential
candidates for on-lending credit lines; and iv) significant progress in the privatization of medium
and large scale enterprises (para 1.6) has improved the market conditions for lending.
1.15      Rural Finance. The credit resources flowing to the rural sector are well below the
levels which current estimated credit worthiness of the sector would justify. This credit is



Chapter1                                                                       5
necessary for farms to be able to restructure their output profile and make small investments in
on-farm processing, and to non-farmers for the expansion of storage, marketing, and input
supply. Recent studies show that over 25% of the private farmers could service loans of $500 per
annum or more, a total of about $39 million annually. The main obstacles to such lending by
commercial banks are the following: high costs of obtaining knowledge on potential borrowers
and developing a network of local outlets for lending, high real interest rates charged by
commercial banks, and lack of adequate registration of land and other real estate to support
expansion of collateral-based lending. To address this situation, the GOA promoted the
formation of the Agricultural Cooperative Bank of Armenia (ACBA).
1.16      ACBA was established in 1993 by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the
Farners Union, and EU-TACIS, allocating the counterpart funds of US $2 million equivalent,
obtained from sales of flour for bread. From the start the bank has got technical assistance from
EU-TACIS through Credit Agricole (France). The actual lending operation started in May 1996,
and the bank is working in three defined regions: Ararat, Shirak, and Armavir. ACBA is owned
by three regional unions (RUs) which are limited liability companies. The RUs operate through
village associations (VAs) of natural (physical) persons. The VAs are non-profit, mutual
associations which are not themselves permitted to own a bank. This three-level structure is
based partly on the traditional cooperative organization model practiced in many countries, and
in part on the legal requirements of Armenian legislation. Currently the main borrowers of
ACBA are the middle income farmers. During April-December 1996 ACBA lent 1553 farmers
an average amount of equivalent US $520. The maximum loan size was US $600 per farmer, and
the total amount disbursed US $800,000. In 1997 it increased the maximum loan size to US
$1000. The maximum loan period is 12 months and interest rate is 3% per month in local
currency. Farmers borrow and repay in both dollars and in local currency (for example, the
Shirak marz branch lends 90% in dollars since many farmers produce for export to Georgia). The
financing is mainly for farm inputs, like seeds, fertilizers and agro-chemicals.
C. Agricultural Sector
1.17      During the Soviet regime, the agricultural sector accounted for 18% of (NMP)
compared with 56% for the industrial sector, and most of the country's food requirements were
imported from the other Republics. Following the collapse of the FSU and the ensuing blockade,
Armenia's economy began progressively to deteriorate, although the agriculture sector began to
pick up again in 1993. Agriculture's share of NMP increased substantially, partly because of the
decline in the other sectors but also thanks to policy reforms reversing the agricultural sectors'
decline.  With its limited resource base, Armenia has been specializing in high value
horticultural crops such as grapes, apricots, apples, tomatoes, and a variety of other fruits and
vegetables largely under irrigation and closely linked to the processing industry.  The
privatization of land brought the emergence of 320,000 small holders and changed, together with
the blockade, the entire picture in the agricultural sector.
1.18      The main reason for the change in cropping pattern is the need for farmers to secure
food self-sufficiency after the collapse of the FSU, the blockade, and the war in Karabakh. In
addition, the collapse of the downstream processing sectors and the upstream suppliers (typical
of most of the CIS republics) has caused a major decline in production, a loss of soil fertility and
a crisis in the livestock sector. As in the past, the country is a net importer of food - grains, meat
and dairy products. Surpluses remain in fruits and vegetables. Armenia used to enhance its food
self-sufficiency by producing food from imported base products, such as feed. During the



6                                                                     Background
blockade, the domestic food supply has dropped and food consumption declined. Armenia thus
faces the following constraints in the agricultural sector: (i) a deteriorating food security; (ii)
production decline due to inadequate irrigation, shortage of farm  inputs (including farm
mechanization), and lack of credit and adequate extension services; and, (iii) limited outlets for
produce due to lack of packaging materials and spare parts in the processing sector, and
bottlenecks in transport and storage.
1.19      Agro-processing and marketing. The agroprocessing industry in Armenia is based
on cultivation, processing, marketing, and cross-border trade assumptions which are no longer
valid. Processing infrastructure is underutilized, old and inefficient. Management has not yet
developed commercial attitudes, and financially, the enterprises are undercapitalized and short of
working capital. The GOA has decided to privatize the enterprises and offer them access to
economy-wide credit lines.
1.20      Market Demand for Agricultural Products. At present, the most serious single
agricultural marketing constraint is the blockade, which limits trade in both fresh and processed
products. Other important constraints are the reduced purchasing power of the urban consumer
and the inefficiency of the processing industry. While Armenia has the potential to produce
sufficient horticultural crops for both the domestic and export markets - as fresh or processed
products - the constraints mentioned above will likely be overcome by focusing on meeting local
market demand first. Once the blockade is lifted and the other constraints are addressed, export
markets should be available in neighboring and Middle Eastern countries.
1.21      Private Farming. Probably the most significant development in the sector since
independence has been the emergence of small private farms as the main producers of food and
agricultural products. The two surveys of small-scale privatization farms, conducted in different
districts of Armenia, as a preparation activity for this project, show that on average, farm
households have a land holding of 1.28 hectares of which 74% is arable, 13% is under perennials
(orchards and vineyards), and 13 % is under hay meadows and pasture. The average family farm
employs 2-3 members of the immediate family, mostly on a part-time basis. All farms in the
survey produced crops, with a diverse crop mix, and 71% of the farmers had livestock. On
average farm households consumed 60-70% of their produce and sold the balance, making them
more than subsistence farmers.
1.22      About 75% of farms in the survey indicated that they received income from sales of
agricultural produce. Among these 75%, average gross revenues from sales were about 360,000
Dram (US $900) per annum, and average net revenue was about 185,000 Dram (US $465),
before payments for family labor. Sales revenues from crops and livestock are about 70% and
30%, respectively. Farm households in the survey were found to derive a substantial proportion
of their income from non-farm sources, with 51% of households indicating that the farm
provided less than 50% of the household income. A further 18% of households derived between
50% and 75% of total household income from farming. Relative to the equity base and the
potential revenue stream, both input and output levels were low, reflecting constraints in
accessing high quality inputs, credit, and information on current technologies. The main sources
for funding farm operations in 1995 were retained eamings and loans from relatives (99% of
respondents). Less than 1% of the respondents reported commercial borrowing.



Chapter 1                                                                         7
D. Constraints to Increased Agricultural Productivity
1.23      Credit constraints in Agro-Processing Enterprises and Marketing. As a preparatory
activity for this project, a team of consultants have examined sub-groups of agro-processing
enterprises to identify their credit demand and potential eligibility to participate in borrowing
under the IDA Enterprise Development Project (EDP) which became effective in 1997. The
main credit constraints for agro-processing enterprises at present are the blockade of the country,
virtual absence of medium and long-term loans, and very high short-term interest rates (as high
as 40-60% per annum after inflation). According to the investment proposals, the demand for
credit is high, due to the need for fixed investments (especially for quality-control modernization
and improvement of packaging), and working capital. In addition, financing is needed by
enterprises supplying farm inputs, such as fertilizers, agro-chemicals, spare parts and
veterinarian medicine.  Demand for investment and working capital has been estimated as
follows for the next five years (1998-2002):
Fruit and vegetables processing                       US $15 million
Milk processing                                       US $5 million
Meat processing                                       US $3.5 million
Input supply                                          US $1.5 million
Working capital                                       US $10 million
1.24      Capacity of the Commercial Banking System. A study of four commercial banks
and one cooperative bank in Armenia was carried out during project preparation to assess their
potential as participants for on-lending the credit portion of the project. The constraints to
expanded bank lending to agricultural sector are as follows: i) lack of clear legal protections for
creditors in the execution of judgments against defaulters, which limits the range of assets which
borrowers can offer and banks will accept as collateral; this limits borrowers' capacity to obtain
debt and is particularly evident in the case of residential real estate from which residents
effectively cannot be evicted, even after due process of law; ii) rural land titles which are issued
in the name of a family and not of a particular individual; iii) very weak real estate markets with
high price uncertainty that compel banks to require very high collateral coverage ratios
(collateral worth three to four times the amount of the loan); iv) high yields to trade businesses
which excludes lower yielding agricultural and industrial borrowers from the very weak credit
market; v) centralized management procedures in at least some of the former state banks which
limit the ability of branch managers to mobilize deposits and make loans under their own
authority.
Rural Credit
1.25      Backgrround. During the Soviet period, the main supplier of credit to agriculture
was the Agrobank, which had over 30 branches. However, the Agrobank was geared to
channeling public funds to state enterprises and clearing payments between them, rather than
carrying out retail banking operations. Following the breakdown of the FSU's banking system,
the rural population lost access to institutional financial services. Over the past three years, there
has been virtually no institutional credit available to large farms, nor to individual farmers.
Credit to farms from the agro-processing sub-sector and marketing and input distribution



8                                                                      Background
enterprises was also reduced, since they were also facing credit shortages. Finally, self-financing
was also reduced, since price liberalization generated strong upward movement in real farm input
prices, and demand fell because of overall reduction of national income. The resulting severe
cost-price squeeze on farm profits has reduced utilization of inputs, mainly fertilizers and
chemicals, and caused a drop in crop yields.
1.26      Credit for Small-Scale Agriculture and Large Farms.  As a result of land
privatization (para 1.8), one of the most critical remaining constraints facing private farms is the
lack of credit. Results of the two farm surveys done during project preparation (one including
about 4,000 respondents and the second about 2,000 respondents) indicate a broad and
substantial demand for credit on the part of rural population, with 53% of the farmers in the
survey indicating that they had a need for credit, in varying amounts up to AMD 300,000 (US
$600 equivalent), with the most commonly requested credit terms being 6-12 months at interest
rates 1-3 percent per month. At the same time there is a significant part of comparatively large
privatized former collective farms (up to 200 ha) that have a great need of medium term loans for
amounts up to $50,000.
1.27      Demand for rural credit for small-scale agriculture has been estimated based on
analysis of the farm surveys and summary data provided by the Agricultural Cooperative Bank
of Armenia (ACBA) from submitted preliminary loan application forms. According to these
data, about 25% of the sample were found to have adequate repayment capacity to repay a 9-
month, average-sized loan of AMD 250,000 (US $500 equivalent) priced at an annual percentage
rate of up to 36%, with a cash coverage ratio of 1.50 or higher. These farms projected a return of
61% on their total costs (farm profit divided by total cost), suggesting that even relatively high
market interest rates may not be a major impediment to borrowing. If, like the ACBA loan
application sample, 25% of the 312,900 small farms reported to be operating in Armenia have
the ability to repay average seasonal loans of US $500 (at 36% annual interest with a coverage
ratio of 1.50), then total potential credit demand is on the order of AMD 19.6 billion (US $39.1)
million. An additional survey of large farms, carried out in the fall of 1996, also revealed a
strong demand for credit. The estimated total number of large private farms is 409. The average
demand for financing by one farm is about $50,000, including both seasonal and investment
credit. Based on this average and an estimated eligibility rate of about 30%, and a repayment
capacity similar to that of small farms, the total demand for credit by large private farms might
be on the order of US $6 to $7 million. Investment priorities included procurement of
agricultural mechanization, land purchase, small-scale agroprocessing facilities, agricultural
buildings, livestock, establishment of new orchards, and refrigeration (in descending order of
indicated preference). A surprisingly high number of farms also expressed high priority for
seasonal credit, giving a fair indication of the degree to which the agricultural sector is devoid of
cash.
1.28       Rural Credit System. Formal banking services utilized by the rural population are
minimal. Lack of bankable collateral and high loan interest rates and transaction costs keep
formal lending to farmers at minimal levels. According to data provided by surveyed banks and
the CBA, monthly loan interest rates ranged from 7% to 9% for natural persons in local
currency. The limited bank credit provided to agriculture is concentrated on large loans to the
food industries. Armagrobank reported that its outstanding loans to farmers totaled about US
$140,000 on December 1, 1996, only 2% of its total outstanding loan balances (2% of US $9.1
million). Much of this consists of frozen balances of government loans granted in 1994 to both
cooperatives and individual farmers. As a result, farmers and other rural producers must now rely
mainly on their own resources and informal credit services to meet their production credit needs.



Chapter 1                                                                          9
Currently, ACBA is the only bank that lends significant amounts to the private agricultural
sector.
Land Markets
1.29 As a result of the particular method followed for privatizing agricultural lands in Armenia,
land has become fragmented. Each family in each rural community was given four to five
parcels of land, one of each category of land which had made up the former collective. Thus,
each family was given non-contiguous plots of cropland, vineyards, perennials, hayfields, and
pasture, with each plot averaging about 0.3 hectares. In order to achieve more efficient use of
land and effective use of agricultural machinery, it is necessary to establish a land market, which
will allow, through sales, exchanges, and leases, the initiation of the land consolidation process.
The growth of a land market and its activities will be assisted by the creation of a title
registration system, including the issuing of land deeds (state acts) to the farmers. The state acts
give the landowner tangible proof that he is the initial legal owner of the land. They also serve
as a guarantee by the state to market agents that land can be used as collateral in return for
receiving input advances, loans, or other financing instruments. The various activities involved
in a title registration system, e.g., surveying, mapping, preparation of titles, has been examined
during the past two years of the Title Registration Pilot financed jointly by the World Bank
Institution Building Loan for Armenia and by resources from USAID. The experience of this
pilot and its staff have been directly transferred to the State Cadastral Administration, which is
now in chargePof establishing and operating the title registration system.
Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions
1.30      An important factor constraining agricultural technology institutions (research,
education, extension and information) has been the lack, until recently, of a unified strategy for
the acceleration of changes required to respond to the transition to a market economy. Even with
an appropriate strategy, there are currently few resources to support the system. All research
institutes have drastically reduced their research activities due to the budgetary constraints. At
present, the existing funds hardly suffice for salaries, which are below levels necessary to meet
minimum family requirements, and don't permit scientists to carry out meaningful research work.
Discussions with the directors of several research institutes reveal their acknowledgment of the
necessary structural changes that the scientific research institutes should undergo to better serve
the public sector. However, neither the directors nor the scientists and researchers know how to
respond to the situation. In other words, they appear to be overwhelmed by the day-to-day
problems facing the institutes and experiment stations.
1.31      The education staff of the Armenian Agricultural Academy requires up-to-date
information to develop materials and a curriculum that will be able to meet the needs of students
and farmers in the future. The training of qualified personnel is hampered due to the lack of new
text-books, manuals, specialized literature, a modern printing capacity (to produce copies of the
existing 100 publications and others to be produced), as well as the absence of computers.
Despite the encouraging start of Agrogitaspure (extension service) and AgroPress (information
service) in Armenia, progress is being hampered by the lack of vehicles (including fuel and
maintenance), operating funds, office and audio-visual equipment, and other materials.
Although some training has been provided to Agrogitaspure under the USDA project, it is
limited compared with the large scope of needs. Almost all the staff have to be trained to assist



10                                                                       Background
small farmers and to expand extension services at the proper level. Some of the senior staff
could benefit from study tours to learn how extension and information service activities are
organized in other countries. In sum, effective and coordinated personnel in agricultural
technology-related institutions need to be deployed at the marz level to relieve the key
knowledge constraints which are hampering agricultural production.
E. Bank's Experience and Strategy
Bank's Role and Past Assistance to Armenia
1.32      The project would support areas where the Bank has considerable experience,
namely, rural finance, post-privatization, and agricultural services. The results of a recent
evaluation of best practices in rural finance have been being taken inio account through
discussion with the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) and the ACBA. The lessons learned from the
various agricultural services components under implementation and preparation in the ECA
region (but also in other regions as well) have also been incorporated into the design of the
Agricultural Institutions component. One of the major challenges of this component has been to
resolve the issue of downsizing existing research and extension institutions and focus more
resources on improving the productivity and increasing the small-farmer focus of the remaining
institutes and extension staff. Over the course of the past year of project preparation, this issue
was continuously explored with the GOA, which decided in Spring 1997 to place the
responsibility for coordinating research and extension with a newly established Agricultural
Research Council and network of Agricultural Support Centers with local stakeholders councils.
Experience from the first rural sector Bank project in Armenia (the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project - IRP), shows that the Government can administer and implement a project within an
agreed timetable if the objectives are clearly defined. The IRP also has demonstrated the
importance of technical assistance, especially to coordinate operational (procedural) and
technical (design, equipment specification) issues simultaneously in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
Strategy for Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
1.33      Soon after independence in 1991, Armenia took steps to liberalize its economy in
general, and the agricultural sector in particular, by introducing major reform programs. The
Armenian land privatization program is unique among former Soviet Republics in regard to the
speed and completeness of its implementation. At the request of the Government of Armenia, to
ensure the successful implementation of these programs, an FAO/CP mission visited Armenia in
April/May 1994 and assisted the Government in identifying a project that would support the
agricultural reform programs. A prior mission from the World Bank visited Armenia in
May/June of 1993 and prepared a review of the sector (Armenia: The Challenge of Reform in the
Agricultural Sector) which reported on the status of food and agricultural sector in the Republic
of Armenia during the first years of the privatized primary agriculture. It also presented an
assessment of the process of the sectoral reforms needed to complete the transition to a market
based agricultural sector. The most critical issues that will determine the future success of
reforms in the sector and the recovery of food and agriculture in general are:



Chapter 1                                                                           11
(a)     developing a working competitive domestic market for agricultural products
and agricultural sector services, required to accelerate the: (i) privatization of
the remaining agro-industrial enterprises; (ii) de-monopolization of the
distribution, input supply, and product market; and (iii) facilitation of the entry
of foreign capital and firms into domestic agro-processing, input distribution
and support services;
(b)     developing a financial intermediary system that can meet the rural sector's
credit needs;
(c)     development and implementation of a title registration and information system
to provide security of tenure, full information on land transactions, and a
repository  for  property  assessment  information;  preparation   and
implementation of a program to promote the emergence of land markets to
support land consolidation and move towards a more efficient holding
structure; establishment of a competitive land mortgage and credit system;
(d)     developing an institutional framework that is consistent with the needs of a
market-based agriculture and emphasizes the state's role in supporting the
private sector through setting standards and regulations and providing public
goods and services such as extension services, research, and education focused
on the needs of privatized agriculture.
1.34       Specific measures to implement the policy recommendations outlined above in (a),
(b), and (d) are incorporated into the business plans finalized during project appraisal with the
ACBA, and the Agricultural Research Council (both of which are available as separate reports,
with summaries thereof in this SAR). The Agricultural Reform Support Project proposed in the
following chapter would reinforce these policy changes by providing assistance to the
restructuring of privatized agro-industrial enterprises, by making credit available to financial
institutions willing and able to extend sub-loans to small fanners on a sustainable basis, and by
undertaking significant restructuring of agricultural research and extension and investing in these
agricultural services. A Title Registration Project currently under preparation is schedule for
Board presentation in FY 1999 and will focus on launching the title registration system in both
rural and urban areas for land and other real estate.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Agricultural Sector
1.35       The proposal project is IDA's second operation supporting Armenia's agricultural
sector; following the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project which became effective in mid-1995. The
IRP and a number of other projects in the ECA Region were examined during the design phase
of this project. The most important one was a 1994 Agricultural Reform Implementation
Support Project in Russia that is designed to accelerate agricultural reforms, strengthen
agricultural support service, build-up institutional capacity to prepare and implement agricultural
and agribusiness projects by the private sector, and develop market information systems and
farmers' advisory services. Design of the Armenia project also took into account the experience
gained under the 1993 Rural Alleviation Pilot Project in Albania and a subsequent 1995 Rural
Development Project.   Both of these projects contain small-scale credit components.
Implementation of the pilot small-scale credit component in Albania was judged by OED to be
satisfactory, its sustainability assured and its impact on institutional development substantial.



12                                                                    Backgrouwd
Significant design elements of the above mentioned projects, especially in the area of loans to
small farmers, were built into the proposed ARSP.



CHAPTER 2
THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1       During discussion of the agricultural sector review "Armenia: The Challenge of
Reform in the Agricultural Section" (prepared by the Bank in 1993-94), the GOA requested
financial assistance to the rural sector for investment activities that would support the policy
measures targeted by the GOA to revive production and exports. This request led to the
preparation of materials for the proposed project during 1996, by consultants engaged under a
PHRD grant from the Government of Japan. Major issues considered during the project
preparation and final appraisal in 1997 were as follows: (i) the capacity of the banking system to
meet the credit needs of small and large farmers and the justification for creating a new rural
finance institution; (ii) the extent of agro-industrial enterprises' demand for investment loans and
the capacity of banks to meet this demand through existing funds and lines of credit; and, (iii) the
development of a restructuring plan for agricultural research and extension and delineation of
appropriate investments to facilitate the reform of agricultural services.
2.2.       Project implementation would commence in April 1998 after receiving approval of
the credit for the ARSP from IDA and acceptance of this credit by the National Assembly of the
Republic of Armenia.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.3       The overall objective of the Agricultural Reform Support Project is to increase
agricultural productivity in Armenia by supporting the development of private sector farming
and agro-processing. The intermediate goals of the project are to develop a sustainable rural
finance system, facilitate the access of agro-industrial enterprises to existing lines of credit, and
address key knowledge constraints in agricultural technology. This would be achieved by:
a) providing training and consultant services to assist in the drafting of business plans
presenting the medium-term investment needs of privatized agro-industrial
enterprises - most of these plans would be presented to the PFIs under the Enterprise
Development Project line of credit (as of late October 1997, six banks had qualified
as PFIs under the ED?);
b) developing a network of village credit associations that would mobilize resources
and provide loans and financial services to small farmers and rural micro-
enterprises;
c) downsizing agricultural research and extension and increasing their focus on small
farmers' needs to be informed about sustainable agricultural practices and
availability of suitable agricultural technologies.
2.4       To support the above objectives, the proposed project would provide financing to
three free-standing components: i) an Agribusiness Development Center; ii) Credit to Farmers



14                                                                        The Project
through PFIs; and, iii) Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions under the Ministry of
Agriculture and local stakeholder councils. A summary of these three components is presented
below.
Component 1: Agribusiness Development Center (US $1.228 million)
2.5        The detailed examination and assessment of agro-processing enterprises and large
commercial farms carried out during project preparation revealed a lack of sufficient knowledge
among agro-industrial sector enterprise managers as to how to approach post-privatization
restructuring and draft business plans. Thus, the establishment of the Agribusiness Development
Center (ADC) is designed to address this lack of knowledge through general and special
subsector training courses for managers and entrepreneurs, as well as more specialized
consulting in writing business plans and feasibility studies and providing commercial advice.
The directors and management of most agro-industrial enterprises have a pressing need to
upgrade their financial management and planning and marketing skills. Thus, the ADC is
designed to be the focal point for technical assistance and training to the agro-industrial sector
and to establish direct linkages with banks participating in the on-lending of the EDP line of
credit. One of its major tasks will be to assist entrepreneurs and the management of agro-
processing privatized enterprises in preparing loan applications and business plans.
2.6        The ADC  will be staffed with locally recruited specialists with business
administration degrees and with experience in agricultural processing, trading, and marketing.
These local specialists are currently being trained in advanced topics in financial management
and project finance by trainers with extensive international education and experience. The local
staff are also participating in on-the-job training with agro-industrial enterprises organized
through the Agricultural Marketing Enterprise. They will also undergo advanced training in loan
evaluation procedures at the Armenian Business Support Center (ABSC). The ADC will
provide assistance free of charge initially to encourage managers to seek assistance at the Center
during the difficult period of rationalization and business planning. Once fully operational, the
ADC will charge fees to cover part of the costs of services rendered to enterprises and over time
become a completely self-financing non-profit entity. Financing of the equipment, staff, and
other operating costs of the ADC are provided for under the ARSP, with support for operating
costs phased out over time.
2.7        The ADC will also offer training programs for employees and management of agro-
industrial enterprises in finance, marketing and strategic planning in order to provide the skills
necessary for these employees to operate competitive business. The specific training areas would
include the following:
a) Financial training - would introduce enterprise directors and senior staff to the principles of
investment project analysis, including the basics of analyzing operational results on an
accrual basis, tracking and projecting cashflow, and making use of different sources of
finance.  It would also eventually involve overseas on-the-job training with similar
agricultural processing facilities for the enterprise directors who exhibit the highest degree of
mastery of the training concepts and those who produce the most promising business plans.
b) Marketing - to focus on persuading enterprise managers to realistically appraise the quality
of their product and its objective attributes, and then examine the range of markets where
their product could possibly compete. Special attention will be given to packaging and



Chapter 2                                                                     15
labeling requirements, shipping and other transport costs, and importing country
requirements in terms of both legal procedures and technical requirements. Focus will also
be placed on the degree of processing in which the enterprise should consider engaging and
deciding on this degree as a function of the profitability for various levels of processing.
c) Strategic planning - training would include the delineation of market strategies to focus on
domestic versus export markets, the choice of optimal scale of operations and guidance on
the streamlining of production facilities, sourcing of raw product and other input materials,
and transfer of information on the attributes and availability of new processing and
packaging technologies and standards.
Component 2: Credit to Farmers (US $7.5 million)
2.8       The line of credit to farmers (CF) would be made available to ACBA and other PFIs
who satisfy the eligibility criteria and negotiate subsidiary loan agreements with the Ministry of
Finance and Economy. ACBA and PFIs would be accredited to participate in the project after
meeting a set of predetermined accreditation criteria, which would assess the banks' financial
viability as measured against international accounting standards (IAS), the presence of adequate
management strengths, sufficient capability in assessing credit risks, credit absorptive capacity,
and adherence to the CBA's prudential banking standards. The line of credit to farmers will
finance seasonal loans and some medium-term investment loans for medium-sized farms (up to
$50,000) through ACBA and other PFIs.  Proposed on-lending terms and conditions to the
ACBA and PFIs are described below (with additional information in Annexes A and C).
2.9       Govemment On-lending Terms and Conditions. ACBA and other PFIs would have
the option of borrowing (and lending) project funds in either dollars or Armenian Drams (AMD).
They would apply for loan funds on the basis of presented signed loan agreements with farms
and other small-scale rural businesses, and disbursement to these PFIs would be made for the
total of these sub-loan portfolios. The proceeds from these first round of sub-loans would then
be re-loanable on a revolving basis. The repayment periods for these periodic tranches of
loanable funds (each on the basis of additional sub-loan portfolios) would be between ten to
fifteen years. Dollar denominated borrowing by ACBA and other PFIs would be at a floating
LIBOR-based interest rate, to be adjusted semi-annually. ACBA and PFIs would repay interest
semi-annually on both AMD and dollar based loans, with the first payment after six months, and
would have the option of repaying all the principle at the end of the loan period. The maximum
credit available to ACBA and PFIs would be ten times their capital and reserves (equity)
measured according to international accounting standards.
2.10      The Project Implementation Unit for the ARSP would be responsible for ex-post
review of sub-loans to medium-sized farms (loans above $5,000). The review process would
include the preliminary review of business plans and determination that the loans proposed are in
compliance with the objectives of the project, that an environmental assessment has been made,
and that the documentation is complete. ACBA and other PFIs would assess the bankability of
the loans and seek only final approval from the PIU (once their own credit assessment units had
given preliminary approval).
2.11      ACBA and PFI On-lending Terms and Conditions. The sub-loans to small farmers,
small rural enterprises, and medium-sized farms would for term-to-maturities of up to five years
at market rates of interest. Clearly, most of the loans under the line of credit in the initial years



16                                                                       The Project
of the operation will be for seasonal loans, since this is the first step in assessing the credit risks
of farms which have no borrowing record. As borrowers demonstrated a reliable credit history,
the loan terms to them would improve and allow financing of medium-term investments in
acquisition of durable goods, such as farm machinery and small-scale processing equipment.
Funds collected from sub-loans, except for interest, would be retained by the ACBA and PFIs for
the term of the sub-loan plus three months, and would be available for further on-lending, so
long as the ACBA and PFIs continue to meet the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan
agreements. ACBA and other PFIs would maintain a separate account for each sub-loan to
medium-sized farms and permit the PIU Credit to Farmers Specialist to monitor for compliance
under the terms and conditions of the credit line. Disbursements to ACBA and the PFIs would
require the signature of the Credit Specialist and the PIU Director. Once the loans to ACBA and
the PFIs were repaid to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the GOA would be free to use the
funds at its discretion.
Component 3: Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions ( US $ 8.574 million)
2.12      The purpose of the project's Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions component is
to finance the critical investments needed to make adjustments in key agricultural technology
institutions during the reforms. The institutional component includes support for the following
areas and institutions:
Research:            New Agricultural Research Council and Centers
Higher Education:    Armenian Agricultural Academy
Advisory Services:   Agrogitaspure
Information:         AgroPress
Support Services:    New Agricultural Support Centers
2.13      The objectives and scope of work for each sub-component on Strengthening of
Agricultural Institutions are presented in Annex D. Funds for these activities would be used for
the financing of facility improvement, equipment, vehicles, local and international training,
technical assistance, and limited recurrent costs. The primary focus of this component is to
support the agricultural research system to restructure and consolidate the activities of those
current institutes which need to be part of a publicly supported research system so research can
contribute more effectively to the agricultural sector in an emerging market economy. The new
system will be client-oriented and linked to agricultural education and extension. For the
achievement of the new research system it is necessary to implement strategic planning and
priority setting exercises under the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) which is responsible
for coordination of the national agricultural research system composed of five Centers and the
Armenian Agricultural Academy. The research sub-component also aims to reduce, consolidate
and make selected improvements in facilities; to support the priority research programs as
identified by the ARC strategic plan; to improve the science linkages with external knowledge
sources, and to develop the client relationships with extension and farmer groups.
2.14       The education sub-component is designed to improve the quality of higher
agricultural education by providing training materials in the Armenian language and improving
access to international sources of information. For the achievement of the mentioned goals it is
necessary: to create a computerized information network and laboratories (USDA supported); to
improve library facilities and access to international information; and to establish a printing
capacity for the pu'blication of specialized literature and textbooks.  The extension sub-



Chapter2                                                                          17
component expands the geographic breadth and density of coverage services to the rural
population to be served by the Armenian Extension Service and AgroPress by: establishing and
equipping marz-level Agricultural Support Centers; making investments in transportation and
communications for extension agents; and  improving the quality and accessibility of
informational materials.
C. Cost Estimates
2.15       The total cost of the project, is estimated at US $19.8 million (Table 2.1). About US
$9.3 million or 47% of the total are foreign costs and US $10.5 million are local expenditures.
These estimates are based on prices prevailing in the international market during the period June-
September 1997 and on local cost data from September 1997. Physical contingencies of 6% and
price contingencies of 5.6% have been added to the base cost less the amount of the line of credit
to farmers and the project preparation facility (US $10.8 million). These price contingencies are
in line with Bank guidelines but reflect less than the full amount of projected dollar inflation
because prices of computers and training equipment (a large share of project equipment) are
expected to decline. The project cost is denominated solely in US dollar terms because of an
underlying assumption that the exchange rate between the Armenian dram and the US dollar will
depreciate at an average rate that compensates for dram inflation and leaves the real exchange
rate unchanged. This assumption is based on the observed path of the dram rate over the period
February 1996-October 1997, which has maintained a largely constant real value vis-a-vis the
US dollar.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary (US $ million)
National        Foreign       Total    % Foreign    % of
Exchange    Cost
Credit to Farmers                       2.000           5.500       7.500        73%        40.4%
Agribusiness Development Center         0.753           0.475        1.228       39%         6.6%
Agricultural Institutions               5.757           2.817        8.574       33%        46.1%
Project Implementation Unit*            1.099           0.184        1.283       14%         6.9%
Total Base Cost                         9.609           8.976       18.585       48%       100.0%
Contingencies**                         0.883           0.347        1.230       28%         6.9%
Total Project Cost                     10.492           9.323       19.815       47%       106.9%
*Includes US $0.332 million of PPF for preparation of former title registration component which has been made a separate project.
**Contingencies are calculated on Base Cost less the amount of the Credit to Farmers component.
D. Financing
2.16       The IDA credit in the amount of US $14.5 million would be lent to the Government
of Armenia at standard IDA terms with 35 years' maturity and a 10-year grace period. The share
of the IDA credit is equivalent to 77% of total project cost. The GOA would contribute US $5.7
million equivalent, or about 20% of total project costs. In July, 1997, the Bank approved a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US $1.5 million for this project to finance final project
preparation and initial implementation (pilot operations). Prior to negotiations, the GOA



18                                                                    The Project
confirmed its intentions to provide appropriate contributions that are necessary to fulfill its share
in the project financing of the local currency components and ensure adequate and timely project
implementation. The financing plan for the project is presented in Table 2.2.
2.17      Grant cofinancing possibilities have been discussed with several donors that have
indicated interest in providing for the technical assistance needs of the project. These
cofinancing possibilities have not been confirmed prior to Board presentation. If confirmed after
Board presentation, the unallocated amount of the IDA credit loan would be increased by a
corresponding amount.
Table 2.2: Financing Plan (US $ million)
National        Foreign          Total
IDA                              5.177            9.323          14.500
Government of Armenia            5.315                           5.315
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              10.492           9.323          19.815
E. Procurement
2.18      Procurement arrangements for goods and services to be financed under the project,
and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented below. All
procurement of goods to be financed from the IDA credit proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, revised in January
and August 1996), and using the Bank's Standards Bidding Documents. For procurement under
NCB, the Borrower will use Regional, standardized bidding documents. Consultants would be
selected in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997). A "General Procurement Notice" containing information
about bidding opportunities for procurement on the basis of ICB will be published in the
February 1998 issue of "Development Business" in accordance with Paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of the
IBRD Guidelines.
2.19      Goods and services required under the Credit to Farmers component and involving
contracts less than or equal to US $15,000 would be procured following commercial practices
(with beneficiaries required to obtain more than one price quotation), contracts between US
$15,000 and US $50,000 would be procured using national shopping procedures, and contracts
higher than US $50,000 would use international shopping. Since no loans under the Credit to
Farmers component will be in excess of US $50,000, the international shopping threshold will
likely not be exceeded. This precludes the need to set ICB thresholds for this component.
2.20       Procurement arrangements and thresholds are provided in detail in Annex F.
Equipment (estimated to cost US $2.2 million) to be purchased under the project would consist
of vehicles, computers, office furnishings and equipment, training equipment, and laboratory
equipment (see Annexes B, D, and E for details). Equipment would be procured using
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and International Shopping (IS) procedures. Technical



Chapter 2                                                                             19
services for maintenance of vehicles and computers and other office equipment (estimated to
cost a total US $ 0.366 million) would be procured through national competitive bidding owing
to the lack of international firms in Armenia offering such services. Small works for
rehabilitation and refurbishment would be procured through NCB and through Minor Works
procedures for contracts less than or equal to US $50,000.
Table 2.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US $ millions)
Procurement Methods                   Total
Project                              ICB    NCB    Other           NBF        Cost
1        Works
1.1            Rehabilitation and             0.543     0.123                 0.666
Refurbishment                 (0.489)  (0.111)               (0.600)
2        Goods
2.1            Equipment and         1.914              0.254                 2.168
Machinery           (1.914)            (0.254)               (2.168)
3        Technical Services                             0.366                          0.366
(0.329)                        (0.329)
4        Consultancies
4.1            Technical                                0.340                 0.340
Assistance                             (0.340)               (0.340)
4.2            Training                                 0.780                 0.780
(0.780)               (0.780)
4.3            Project                                  1.333      0.497      1.829
Implementation                         (1.333)               (1.333)
Consultants
5        Miscellaneous
5.1            Line of Credit                           4.850      2.000      6.850
(4.850)               (4.850)
5.2            Incremental Costs                        2.537      2.715      5.252
(2.537)               (2.537)
5.3            PIU Incremental                          0.064                 0.064
Costs                                  (0.064)               (0.064)
Total                                          1.914    0.909    10.280      5.212     18.315
(1.914)  (0.818)  (10.268)     (-)      (13.000)
Refunding of PPF                                                                        1.500
Grand Total                                                                            19.815
Notes:
1/ Decimals may not add up exactly due to rounding
2/"Other" procurement methods under the ARSP loan include Minor Works for refurbishment ($123,200),
international shopping for training equipment ($91,600) and office furnishings and equipment (162,200), and QCBS,
QBS, LC, and I (quality and cost based selection, quality based selection, least cost, and individual) methods for
consultant services ($2.45 million).



20                                                                     The Project
2.21      Consultant services. Technical assistance and training requirements under the
project would amount to US $1.12 million. Included in this total are: 6 staff-months for the PIU;
30 staff months under the Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions component (Annex D); and
18 staff-months for the ADC (Annex E). Efforts are currently underway to secure grant
financing for some of these requirements. Project implementation consultants in the Project
Implementation Unit, the Agribusiness Development Center, the Agricultural Research Council,
and the Agricultural Support Centers would be contracted on an individual basis by the PIU
(through national advertising for positions and interviewing of candidates) to assist with the
coordination of the ARSP sub-components as described in the terms of reference in Annexes B-
E, and will be contracted in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
2.22      Review by the Bank. All ICB contracts, the first two NCB contracts for each of the
procurement categories (Equipment and Technical Services), the first international shopping
contract regardless of its value, and all contracts for consulting services valued in excess of US
$100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, would be subject to prior review
and approval by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA. Terms of
reference for all consultant contracts would be reviewed in advance by IDA. Procurement
information would be included in the quarterly project progress reports prepared by the PIU.
2.23      Project launch. During project pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in 1997, the
Project Preparation Unit and the project beneficiaries have been provided with an overview of
the Bank's procurements practices. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out
the procurement in accordance with the Bank's procedures would be strengthened through
ongoing training, mainly by the procurement team in the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP)
PPU, which has three years of experience with Bank procurement procedures, and through use of
the Standard Bidding Documents. Agreement was obtained during Negotiations that all
procurement activities under the project wouldfollow the procedures outlined in Paras. 2.19 to
2.23 (Para. 5.3(a)).
F. Disbursement
2.24      The proposed IDA Credit of US $14.5 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of four and a half years, until the project's close on December 31, 2002. Based on the
experience of the IRP to date, a disbursement profile for the ARSP has been prepared. Taking
into account this experience and knowledge gained during project preparation, it is reasonable to
assume that the Credit's proceeds could be fully disbursed over a four and half year period. A
mid-term evaluation to examine all aspects of project implementation would be undertaken by
IDA and the Borrower by June 30, 2000, or when disbursements reach 50% of the total credit
amount, whichever is earlier. Commitments for major contracts would be approved through
March 31, 2002. Estimated annual disbursements under the IDA Credit are shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: IDA Disbursements Projections (US $ millions)
FY 1998      FY 1999      FY 2000        FY 2001       FY 2002
Annual                   3.536        5.768        4.035          3.483         1.762
Cumulative               3.536        9.305         13.340        16.823        18.585
Cumulative Contingencies   0.234      0.616         0.883         1.113         1.230
Grand Total - Cumulative   3.771      9.920         14.223        17.937        19.815



Chapter 2                                                                    21
2.25      The Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 2.5 below:
2.26      Direct payment procedures from IDA to suppliers would be used. Disbursements
against the categories described in Table 2.5 would be made upon receipt by IDA of fully
documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $300,000 for goods and
works, US $100,000 for consulting firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, which
would be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made available to IDA during supervision. The
minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA
Credit account would be 20% of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special
Account. All withdrawals for training would be done on the basis of an SOE, with all Term of
Reference (TORs) for training subject to prior review.
Table 2.5: Disbursement Categories (US $ million)
Disbursement Category      Allocation             Disbursement Basis
(1) WorKs - Rehabilitation and  0.790      100% of foreign expenditures,
Refurbishment and Technical                90% of local expenditures
Services
(2) Goods - Equipment and       1.840      100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Machinery                                 local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
90% of expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3) Consultancies               2.080      100%
(4) Line of Credit              4.850      100%
(5) Incremental Costs           2.150      75% for expenditures incurred prior to June
30, 1999; 60% for those prior to June 30,
2000; 40% for those prior to June 30, 2001;
and, 20% for expenditures thereafter
(6) Incremental Costs - PIU     0.060      100%
(7) Refund of PPF               1.500
(8) Unallocated                 1.230
(9) TOTAL                      14.500
2.27      To facilitate implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in a
major foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. During the early
stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US
$250,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the level
of US $3,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US
$1,250,000. Documentation requirements for replenishment of the Special Account would
include reconciled bank statements and other appropriate supporting documents.
2.28      At Negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursement arrangements will follow
the procedures described in Paras. 2.25 to 2.27 and for establishing and operating the Special
Account as described above ( Para. 2.27) (Paras. 5.3 (b) and ( c)).






CHAPTER 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1       The project would be carried out under the overall coordination and supervision of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) through the Project Management Board (PMB). The Project
Preparation Unit has been transformed into the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) as of October
15. The head of the former PPU has become the Project Director and PIU Manager and is the
principal linkage between the Bank and the GOA for the ARSP. The PIU is responsible for the
day-to-day implementation of the ARSP.
Project Implementation Unit
3.2       The PIU was created by the Government to coordinate and oversee implementation
of the four components of the project. It is headed by the full-time employed Project Director,
and includes technical and administrative staff (see Annex B for details). The PIU is responsible
for:
(a) providing information to, and seeking guidance about the project implementation issues from
MOA and PMB;
(b) coordinating and managing the recruitment of foreign and national consultants required by
the ADC and the Agricultural Institutions component;
(c) ensuring that all procurement contracts are in conformity with IDA's guidelines;
(d) preparing and submitting for the IDA's review the annual work plans and consolidated semi-
annual progress reports;
(e) maintaining an account of project activities and expenditures; and
(f) coordinating the monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
Aside from being responsible for overall coordination of project activities, the PIU would also
assume direct responsibility for the work of the ADC (para. 3.3). All staff in the PIU would be
hired on one year contracts renewable annually for the duration of the project. The PIU would
be disbanded at the end of the project.
Agribusiness Development Center (ADC)
3.3       The ADC is organized to provide professional consulting services to agro-industrial
sector enterprises and assist them to develop feasibility studies and business plans for them to
access available loan funds to re-establish their activities in the domestic and foreign markets.



Project Im_plementation                                                       23
The design stage for the establishment of the ADC started in early April 1997. The detailed
outline of the implementation plan was completed in mid-April and involved the following:
a) Advertisement and interviewing of local MBA graduates (or graduates with similar business
educational background) who also have experience in the agricultural sector ( April-June,
1997);
b) Design of an advanced level three month training course for the ADC personnel who will
become both trainees and business plan specialists (June-July, 1997);
c) Selection of roughly 25 MBA graduates with agricultural sector experience (this was done
from a group of over 60 candidates) and contracting of the international specialists for
conducting the training course (July-August, 1997);
d) Conducting an advanced training course for ADC trainees (September-December, 1997);
and,
e) Final selection and contracting of the trainees who have successfully completed the training
course and become the ADC's staff (December, 1997)
3.4       A group of 8-10 ADC staff will be involved mainly in development of feasibility
studies and business plans for agro-industrial enterprises and training the enterprise management
how to use these plans to organize the ideas they have about enterprise restructuring. Another
group of 4 ADC specialists will be responsible for organization and conducting training courses
and seminars, including case studies for the managers and employees of agro-processing
enterprises and private farmers with a main focus on: i) financial management; ii) strategic
planning; iii) market demand estimation techniques; iv) streamlining of production facilities; and
v) food technology and packaging.
3.5       Financing of the equipment, staff, and operating costs of the ADC would be
provided under the ARSP Credit. The Center would also make use of technical assistance
funded on a grant-basis by bilateral and other donor organizations (currently a grant for US
$332,000 is under consideration by the UK Know-How Fund) for hiring short-term international
consultants to train the local staff, and for organization of one-month work assignments of
managers of Armenian agro-processing enterprises at developed country enterprises of similar
profile.
Credit to Farmers
3.6       A Credit to Farmers Specialist (CFS) will be based in the PIU to manage and
administer the credit to farmers through ACBA and other accredited PFIs. The CFS would have
the following responsibilities:
(a) act as the Government's agent in approving and monitoring all government related
financial transactions for the Credit to Farmers component of the project. This would
include, inter alia, withdrawal of Credit funds in accordance with procedures
established in the Credit Agreement, on-lending of Credit funds to ACBA and other
PFIs, and advising the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) of due dates of
principal and interest from the PFIs;



24                                                                       Chapter 3
(b) interac+ closely with CBA's supervision departmnent in monitoring the ACBA and
PFIs to ensure continued compliance with eligibility criteria, as described in Annex
C; and,
(c) maintain the project's accounts for the Credit to Farmers component and provide
administrative services, including monitoring the flow of funds. The CFS would
prepare semi-annual reports providing details of funds channeled to ACBA and PFIs,
sub-loans outstanding, and status of repayments.
3.7       The CFS would be a nationally recruited individual with relevant experience in
banking and agriculture. This professional would be assisted by the necessary experienced
accounting and clerical staff and one internationally experienced adviser (through periodic on-
demand technical assistance missions). The Terms of Reference of the CFS and its national and
internationally recruited experts are included in Annex C. The foreign expert would be a
banking specialist who would assist the CFS in monitoring the PFIs' operations and help set up
the system to administer and manage the credit on-lending function.
3.8        The functions of the CFS, management of the Credit to Farmers component, and
the questions of cooperation with ACBA and PFIs as described in Paras 3.6-3.7, were agreed to
during Negotiations (para. 5.3 (d)).
Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions
3.9       In the PIU, an Agricultural Institutions Coordinator (AIC) and an Agricultural
Institutions Specialist (AIS) will be in charge of coordinating loan related activities for the
Agriculture Research  Council (ARC), the Armenian  Agricultural Academy  (AAA),
Agrogitaspure (agricultural extension service), AgroPress, and the Agricultural Support Centers
(ASC).
3.10      The AIC in collaboration with the MOA, would be responsible for coordinating the
funding for the establishment of Agricultural Support Centers at the marz level. Arrangements
for local and international staff training and engaging foreign experts and national counterparts
will be the responsibility of the AIC. For Agrogitaspure and AgroPress, the AIS would handle
the provision of vehicles, training materials, office equipment, power generating equipment, and
limited incremental operating costs. The AIC and ARC would oversee the restructuring of
agricultural research from 14 institutes to five centers, the development of a strategic plan for
research, the establishment of priority setting procedures to improve the research agenda and the
eventual integration of the new research centers into the AAA. All local and international
purchases, renovations, training and technical assistance would be facilitated by the AIS.
3.11      Close cooperation will be established between the AIC and the State Cadastral
Administration which manages the title registration system to advise on title registration
activities in precisely the areas where the Agricultural Support Centers are being implemented,
since both the information communicated by Agrogitaspyure about appropriate sustainable
agricultural technologies and a working land registry will be needed to facilitate farm
restructuring and land consolidation. The detailed implementation plan of the Strengthening of
Agricultural Institutions component is shown in Annex D.



Project Implementation                                                           25
Accreditation Requirements for Participating Financial Institutions
3.12      To be accredited as a participating financial institution (PFI) under the project,
interested banks would have satisfy the criteria defined below, which have been agreed on
between the ARSP PIU, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Central Bank of Armenia,
and the World Bank. The potential PFI would have:
(a) an acceptable audit report which: (i) covers the last year of operations; (ii)
incorporates a portfolio review; and (iii) is prepared by external auditors in
accordance    with    International    Accounting    Standards    ("IAS");
(b) been in existence and has produced operating results for a minimum of one year;
provided that in the case of a merger or reorganization of two or more PFIs, at least
one PFI existed and produced operating results for minimum of one year;
(c) a network of branches with experience in extending loans to individual farmers;
(d) a capital adequacy ratio as defined under IAS of at least 4%, incorporating risk-
weighted ratio as determined by the Basle Committee of Banking Supervision;
(e) provided a certificate of compliance from CBA stating that: (i) it has a valid banking
license, and specifying type and date of license; and (ii) the PFI is in general
compliance with all relevant banking laws and regulations of the Republic of
Armenia;
(f) exposure to any one particular borrower as a percent of its IAS capital of no more
than 30% by the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(g) aggregate exposure to insiders (defined as council members, members of the
Management Board of such PFI, employees in a management position and
shareholders with voting rights in excess of 10%) of no more than 100% of IAS
capital as of the date of its accreditation as a PFI;
(h) on the basis of the audit report referred to in paragraph I (a) of the agreed upon
Schedule, has adopted adequate policies and procedures with respect to credit
administration, loan servicing, and other key areas of banking practice;
(i) established capacity, for credit, accounting, and to manage investment lending to
enterprises; and
(j) adopted a strategic corporate plan acceptable to the Association which includes, inter
alia: (i) a program to fully convert its accounts to IAS by January 1, 1998; (ii)
specific arrangements to increase its capital adequacy ratio to 8% within a reasonable
timetable; and (iii) specific arrangements to strengthen its capacity for credit,
analysis, loan approval, accounting, and environmental assessment for management
of investmnent lending.
3.13      At  negotiations, agreement was obtained that the participation criteria for the
PFls would be as described in para. 3.12 (Para. 5.3 (e)). A condition of disbursement for the



26                                                                      Chzapr 3
Credit to Farmers component would be the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between
Ministry of Finance and Economy and at least one qualified PFI (Para 5.3(i)).
Lending Terms to Private Farms
3.14      Repayment periods of sub-loans to farms and rural businesses would be established
on the basis of cash flow projections for each sub-loan but would not exceed the useful life of the
goods being financed. In no case, however, would maturities of sub-loans exceed five years,
including grace periods of up to two years.
3.15      Eligible loans would be made according to lending decisions of ACBA and other
PFIs who will assess the lending risks. Lending decisions would be based on ACBA's and other
PFIs' appraisal and other documentation necessary to assess the technical and financial viability
of the proposed investment and the credit worthiness of the borrower. The following conditions
will apply:
a) Each sub-loan shall be made to a beneficiary which shall have established to the
satisfaction of the PFI and the PIU that it is engaged in agricultural production or
agribusiness and has provided financial statements to the PFI and a plan for use of
funds and projected earnings.
b) Sub-loans shall be made for sub-projects which are determined to be related to the
type of business in which a beneficiary is engaged and which is technically feasible
and financially and commercially viable, based on the projected cash-flow analysis,
and designed in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and the laws
of the Republic of Armenia.
c) The total amount of each Sub-loan made to an Beneficiary for a Sub-project by a PFI
shall not exceed the equivalent of US $50,000.
3.16      No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a sub-project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the ARSP line of credit unless:
(a) the sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the PIU and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date
on which the PIU shall have received the application and information required in
respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b) the sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a "free-limit" sub-loan for which
the IDA has authorized withdrawals from the ARSP line of credit. For the ARSP
line of credit, the "free-limit" will be set at US $15,000.
3.17      Once a loan to a farm or rural enterprise is approved by ACBA or other PFIs, the
loan documentation would be submitted to the PIU. The first three sub-loans to be approved by
ACBA and PFIs, irrespective of size, and all loans above the free limit, would be subject to
review and approval by the PIU and IDA. After obtaining these approvals, funds would be
released to the ACBA and PFIs.



Project Implementation                                                         27
3.18      Eligibility for Financing. In order to be eligible to receive loans under the project,
sub-projects would have to satisfy the following eligibility criteria:
(a)      financial projections should demonstrate collateral coverage ratio of at least 1.2
over the life of the project, calculated on the basis of the entity's debt and cash
flow coverage ratio of 1.5;
(b)      cash flow is adequate to meet debt servicing;
(c)      financial rates of return on proposed sub-projects should exceed 15% in real
terms;
(d)      for large farm medium term loans, the certification from the relevant local or
national authorities that the proposed sub-project meets all environmental laws
and standards in force in Armenia.
3.19      Appraisal Methodology. Sub-loan applications would be supported by detailed
business plans for medium-term loans and loan application forms for seasonal loans covering
the following:
(a)      technical feasibility, financial viability, and commercial soundness of the
proposed investment;
(b)      an evaluation of the proposed scale of the sub-project, the location of farm, its
layout and the estimated investment costs in domestic and foreign currencies;
(c)      an evaluation of the sub-borrower's credit worthiness, organizational
management and financial ability to implement the sub-project.
3.20      Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that the appraisal methodology and terms
and conditions for on-lending under the project would be as specified in Paras 3.14-3.19 (para
5.3 a)).
B. Accounts and Auditing
3.21      Separate accounts would be kept for each project component. Accounts of the
Credit to Farmers component would contain detailed records of each sub-loan approved by the
PFIs and information on the amount and source of funds disbursed under each sub-loan.
Information to be compiled under this component's accounts would include the amounts
disbursed to ACBA and other PFIs and the schedule of their interest and principal repayment
obligations. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PIU for the disbursements
made under the Title Registration Component, the Institutional Strengthening component, and
for the ADC. Semi-annual statements of all these accounts would be submitted to the Director of
the PIU who would use them as a source of information for management report on the status of
project implementation.
3.22      Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would conduct an annual audit of the
project's accounts. Certified copies of these audits would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. The cost of these audits during the first five



28                                                                      Chapter 3
years would be borne by the project. All participating PFIs would be subject to annual IAS
audits that would be reviewed by the IDA. The PIU would arrange with ACBA and other PFIs to
have their accounts and financial statements audited in accordance with international auditing
standards by independent auditors. The cost of these audits would be borne by the PFI. The
scope and content of the audits would be agreed in advance with the IDA. Certified copies of the
auditors' report would be retained by PIU for subsequent review by IDA missions and as a
source of information for monitoring sub-borrowers' financial performance. Assurance on the
above was obtained at Negotiations (para. 5.3 (g)).
C. Reporting and Evaluation
3.23      The PIU staff would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the impact of the
project. The PIU's Credit to Farmers Specialist would review the performance of ACBA and
other PFIs through field visits and review of the corresponding accounts and auditor's reports.
The Agricultural Institutions Coordinator would monitor the process of restructuring in the
research and extension institutions and the investments financed by the ARSP in these
institutions. The PIU Director would be responsible for liaising with the Coordinator of the
ADC to monitor the implementation of the training and consultant services offered by the ADC
and identifying where additional training of ADC personnel is needed.
3.24      Reporting. The PIU staff would prepare semi-annual progress reports to be
consolidated by the PIU Director into a progress report to be submitted to IDA within 60 days of
the end of the period under review. These progress reports would include a summary statement
of the project's overall financial status, a brief descriptive section on the accomplishments of
each of the project's components, a summary of contracts signed, and the status of procurement,
as well as highlighting problems encountered during implementation.
3.25      Implementation Completion Report. Promptly after completion of the project, the
PIU staff would prepare a report on the execution of each component, its costs, and the benefits
derived. The PIU Director would consolidate these reports and add an evaluation of the
performance of the institutions which took part in project implementation. The consolidated
report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the closing date. Agreement of
the above, as reflected in Paras. 3.23-3.25, was obtained at Negotiations (para. 5.3(h)).
3.26      The proposed plan for Project supervision envisages an average of two supervision
missions per year. The skill mix of supervision staff would ensure the presence of adequate IDA
experts in banking, enterprise development and restructuring, title registration, and restructuring
of agrictltural institutions, as well as knowledge of Bank/IDA procurement and disbursement
rules, as necessary. A mid-term review is planned for November, 2000 (earlier if considered
necessary), at which time progress towards meeting Project objectives would be assessed.
3.27      IDA's monitoring would focus on:
(a) the performance of the ADC, including the training programs, business plans and
data collection, qualification of agro-industrial enterprises for investment loans;
(b) the financial performance of ACBA and other PFIs, and the extent to which loans by
ACBA and other PFIs respond to the credit needs of the rural population;



Project Implementation                                                          29
(c) the impact of loans on production and productivity; and,
(d) the progress of implementation of the restructuring plan for the agricultural research,
extension, and education institutions included in the Institutional Strengthening
component.



CHAPTER 4
BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Benefits
4.1        The primary beneficiaries of this project are the small farms, rural enterprises, and
agro-processing enterprises of Armenia. The line of credit through ACBA and other PFIs would
benefit small farmers by supporting a low cost mechanism for lending. Training in project
analysis and business plan preparation would assist agro-industrial enterprises to present
bankable investment plans to financial institutions and gain access to capital for post-
privatization restructuring. The strengthening of selected agricultural institutions would provide
a wide range of extension and information support to private farmers.
4.2       Although the project is expected to generate substantial benefits, it is not possible to
measure these benefits using conventional economic analysis. However, with the removal of
financial distortions and subsidies agreed recently under the Structural Adjustment Credit, and
with sub-loans to farms and small enterprises made at market rates, the project is expected to
yield a rate of return higher than the opportunity cost of capital. A qualitative list of expected
benefits from each of the project's components is presented below.
4.3        Agribusinea  Development Center (ADC). The ADC would provide the following
benefits:
(a)     Rehabil.tation  of enterprises, thus increasing  productivity  of existing
investments;
(b)     Increase in foreign investments and the creation of joint ventures leading to the
transfer of technology to Armenia;
(c)     development of capacity to compete in foreign markets and expand exports and
enable enterprises to be more efficient and productive; and
(d)     Improvements in revenue, management and productivity of enterprises
4.4        Credit to Farmers. The line of credit would provide the following benefits to private
farmers and small and medium-scale rural enterprises:
(a)     Development of a capacity to evaluate and administer short-and medium-term
loans to farms and rural enterprises, thereby increasing rural income and
employment;
(b)     Introduction of  more financial services to the rural sector, enabling the
mobilization of deposits and on-lending for productive purposes; and,
(c)     Further development of financial management skills in rural finance both by
ACBA loan officers and those in other PFIs, enabling a self-sustaining rural
finance system.



Benefits. Risks and Environmental Impact                                         31
4.5        Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions would result in:
(a)     The introduction of agricultural techniques which are sustainable for small-
scale farmers through the provision of information fact-sheets, briefing
materials and consultancy services to the farmers by the extension service;
(b)     The development of a market-oriented agricultural scientific-research system
responsive to the current and future needs of small-scale farming communities;
and,
(c)     The training of high quality specialists capable of executing sustainable
agricultural research and extension by undergoing education in a system that is
monitored with a knowledge assessment rating system (see Annex D).
4.6        The fiscal impact. The main direct fiscal impact of the project will be through the
Institutional Strengthening, since this component involves a range of operational activities for
the provision of agricultural services through the Agricultural Research Centers, the marz level
Agricultural Support Centers, Agrogitaspyure (the extension agency), and AgroPress (distributor
of market information). A total of US $2.7 million would be contributed by the GOA and
through user fees by farmers, in annual amounts increasing steadily from US $0.44 million in FY
1998 to US $1.33 in FY 2002. Though the rural credit component will promote increased
production and income, it is difficult to calculate the fiscal impact since much of agriculture is
not subject to income taxes. Land tax is the main revenue generator in the agricultural sector,
and to date the collection rate of these land taxes paid is high (over 80% of rural land owners pay
their taxes, with an average assessment bill of about $25 per year).
B. Risks
4.7        The project is complex and will inevitably be faced with various risks. It is the first
broad-based and multi-disciplinary project in the country's agricultural sector. The lack of
experience in handling similar projects could affect full attainment of project activities.
Regarding the delivery of the most complex project component, the Agricultural Institutions
component, a significant amount of training and technical assistance will be provided under the
project for further refining the existing strategic plan for integration of agricultural research,
extension, and education. Reforms to implement this process are already underway. In addition,
to assure greater accountability and sustainability, it was agreed during negotiations that farmers'
requests for research focused on their expressed needs (channeled through the ASCs to the ARC)
would be the main source of input for working out research priorities. More broadly, main risks
which the project could face are systemic ones related to a continuation of the blockade, delay in
the functioning of markets and financial institutions, and inadequate budgetary resources. Given
the high Government commitment to liberalize the economy, macro-economic instability is
unlikely to be a major risk to the project. In any case, there is little that the project can do alone
on this matter, but many donors, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
are encouraging and supporting GOA to continue its economic reforms. In regard to the
blockade, a recent easing of the conflict in Karabakh and the dialogue initiated between the
opposing parties are a cause for optimism. In addition, the opening of alternative routes through
Iran has already provided the basis for a hopeful outlook. However, in the event of a serious
regression in the macro-economic situation, consideration would need to be given to limiting the



32                                                                         Chapter 4
on-lending to farmers in foreign currency since the foreign exchange risk would likely increase
to unsustainable levels. The implementation risks associated with the Credit to Farmers
component would also be mitigated through the provision of technical assistance and training to
PFIs.
C. Economic Analysis
4.8        The ARSP builds on the stabilization of water supply and improved efficiency in the
irrigation sector which has been targeted by the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, by focusing on
agricultural services, financial infrastructure and agro-processing sector bottlenecks which were
identified in the Agricultural Sector Review (1994) and subsequent ESW as the limits to rural
sector growth. The ARSP clearly targets one of the key goals of the CAS (adopted for Armenia
in August 1997) which is improving the environment for private sector development. Since the
rural sector in Armenia currently accounts for 40-50% of GDP and serves as a safety net for a
large share of the former urban population (which has lost its industrial employment and been
forced back into rural areas to engage in subsistence agriculture), addressing private sector
development in the agricultural sector is key to general economic growth as well as to the
strengthening of social protection during the transition to a vibrant market economy.
4.9        The ARSP also builds on a strong foundation of agricultural policy reforms which
consist of the most widespread land reform in the ECA region, virtually complete liberalization
of domestic and foreign trade, well advanced privatization and demonopolization of the agro-
industrial sector (including processing, input supply, and marketing), and demonstrated
commitment to restructuring of agricultural sector institutions. The ARSP addresses not only the
supply side of the agricultural development strategy by making individual private farms the
focus of Armenia's agricultural research, education, extension, and information institutions and
by supporting the further growth of the emerging rural financial infrastructure which serves
them; it also targets the demand side by providing technical assistance and training for agro-
industrial restructuring provided through the Agribusiness Development Center. Lastly, through
improved availability of sustainable agricultural practices and emphasis on tradable property
rights, the ARSP aims to make a contribution to improving environmental management.
Justification for Public/Private Interventions in Agricultural Services
4.10       The two ARSP components which propose to support public providers of services
that in other countries are often provided by the private sector are the Agricultural Institutions
Component and the Agribusiness Development Center. A public sector delivery mechanism has
been opted for in the area of agricultural research and extension because the value of research
results in locally adapted technologies and the extension of these sustainable agricultural
practices is generally not perceived by Armenia's farmers (low notional demand) nor is
harnessable by private sector providers because of its public good nature (low effective demand).
In addition, the high discount rate which the private sector demonstrates in its choice of
investment activities (25%  or above) indicates that the long-term  benefits of sustainable
agricultural practices have low net present value, leading to underinvestment in research and
extension. In fact, by making farmers aware of the unsustainability of current practices which
often lead to excessive erosion, salinization through over-irrigation and insufficient drainage,
and high losses to pests and spoilage, the research and extension system will create higher
demand for information on agricultural techniques. Part of this demand (for specialized



Benefits. Risks and Environmental Impact                                          33
consultations for which fees could be charged) will then be served by the private sector in the
future.
4.11       The Agribusiness Development Center (ADC) is designed to make agro-processing
enterprise directors and management aware of the principles involved in preparing financial and
marketing strategies in business plans to be presented to potential investors and financial
institutions. Ideally, this service could be provided by a private sector purveyor, but the current
perception by agro-industrial enterprises of the business advisory services available to them is
that the consultations are overpriced ($1500-$2000 per business plan produced) given the very
general nature of recommendations provided and made from a largely uninformed perspective
(vis-a-vis specific agro-industrial problems in Armenia). Thus, the demand for financial training
and business plan consultations from existing consultancies (KPMG and the quasi-private
Armenian Business Support Center) by the agro-industrial sector is low. The personnel of the
ADC are being drawn from a cohort of specialists with business administration education and
agricultural training, and as such will be better able to demonstrate the value of financial training
and business plan consultant services to agro-industrial enterprises.
4.12       The strategy of the ADC is to give agro-industrial managers free training and then
charge slowly increasing fees for business plan consultations (starting at about $300-500 and
increasing over four years to about $700-800 per business plan completed). Given the US $1.2
million to be spent on the ADC and the projected goal of completing 150-200 business plans for
privatized agro-industrial enterprises over four years (about 8 business plans per specialist per
year), the average total cost of $600-800 per business plan compares favorably to the current
rates of $1500. Eventually, as the agro-industrial sector's notional and effective demand for
business and finance consultancy grows, the ADC specialists will be able to establish private
consulting firms.
Credit to Farmers
4.13       Prior to the establishment of the Agricultural Cooperative Bank of Armenia
(ACBA) the flow of credit to small farmers through institutional channels was virtually non-
existent (analysis from 1995-96 examining the development of rural finance is available in the
Rural Credit Evaluation u orking paper available in the project file). There are two main reasons
for this: the high costs of intermediating small loans and the perception of high risk by Armenian
depositors.
4.14       Since most rural customers for institutional credit have the need and ability to
borrow between $500-1000 for working capital and small investment loans, these customers are
not an attractive pool of borrowers for most banks. Most banks do not have branches in
Armenian rural villages and are not interested in making small loans: the transactions costs of
gathering information in distant locations and verifying the projected results of these small
farmers business plans are too high. ACBA addresses this by having been formed out of over
100 village associations (VAs) which are widely distributed in the three most heavily populated
agricultural marzes. These VA's represent a decentralized, low cost way of addressing the
problem of asymmetry of information by locally screening the credit applications from potential
farm borrowers. The costs of servicing small loans is still high (12-15 percent of assets) but less
than it would be without local institutional capacity.



34                                                                      Chapter 4
4.15      The reason the ARSP has included a component for increasing access to long term
financial resources for ACBA and other qualifying PFIs is that ACBA and other PFIs face great
difficulties in mobilizing medium and long-term deposits. This is because the perception of risk
by potential depositors is higher than actual risks: few Armenians put their savings into local
banks because of the loss of virtual all the population's savings in the early 1990s when the
national savings bank collapsed. Those who do make deposits typically require a risk premium
so high that is makes the costs of funds above 20 percent per annum in real terms. Thus, by
providing long term resources to ACBA and other PFIs, the ARSP Credit to Farmers component
is meant to allow the rural finance system to grow as confidence by depositors is rebuilt and their
deposits mobilized.
Performance Indicators
4.16      The set of project objectives, expected project outcomes, and performance
indicators for each is presented in Table 4.1 on the following page.
4.17      The construction of project performance indicators has been done in tandem with
each of the project component's beneficiaries in order to reach a common understanding between
the beneficiaries what is expected of each. This type of team building exercise has been of
particular importance for the Institutions Strengthening component, where the complexity and
interrelated nature of sub-components requires careful coordination. The performance indicators
target the most important project outcomes but in no way represent an exhaustive list of project
impacts. As project implementation proceeds, the set of project performance indicators will be
refined, bearing in mind the realistic ability to gather information on each indicator in a cost-
effective manner.
D. Sustainability
4.18      The project's basic rationale is that the agricultural sector should, over time, become
self-sustaining without having to rely on government subsidies (currently through low irrigation
water charges) and protective measures. Thus, sub-loans to farms and rural enterprises would be
at positive real interest rates, with PFIs bearing the full commercial risk. Interest rates are
projected (see ACBA Business Plan, July 1997) to cover all operating costs. However, to
successfully serve as the co'nduit for the rural finance component, the ACBA will need to
become a true member-owned and capitalized cooperative bank. It must develop a disciplined,
market-based financial intermediation strategy and continue to implement sound lending
procedures adapted to Armenia's legal, social, and economic environment. It will also have to
build the institutional capabilities of its village associations to manage and protect the bank's
funds invested in their communities.



Benefits. Risks and Environmental Impact                                                         35
Table 4.1 - Project Objectives, Outputs, and Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators             Monitoring and Supervision
CAS Objective
(i) private  sector  enterprise  (i) growth of rural non-farm income;   (i & ii) Survey of current status of
development;                                                            Armenian agriculture and updates
(ii) growth of agricultural production  based on future periodic surveys;
(ii)    private    sector-based  and income;
agriculture  and  agribusiness                                          (iii)   PIU   and   both   ARSP
development;                    (iii) decisions by  GOA  to  allocate  supervision missions and SAC  II
sufficient budget to agencies involved in  supervision missions.
(iii)    public    institutions  agricultural  extension,  provision  of
strengthening   to   establish  market information, and  agricultural
enabling   environment   for  education and research.
private individual agriculture
tenure.
Project Objectives
i) the timely development of a  (i) expansion of self-sustaining village  PIU  progress reports and: for (i)
working rural financial system;   credit associations  (VAs) and  staff  reports  from   Credit  Agricole
trained in rural banking;               implementing TACIS training;
ii)  the   strengthening   of
agricultural support services;  (ii) increase in depth of coverage and  (ii)  monthly  reports  by  the
frequency  of visits  by  agricultural  Agricultural Support Centers and
iii) the successful restructuring  service providers to private farmers, and  annual surveys of farmers' sense of
of privatized  agro-processing  degree of re-orientation of agricultural  inclusion in agricultural institutions'
enterprises.                    research and extension to small private  restructuring  process  and  their
farmers;                                satisfaction    with    agricultural
support services provided;
(iii) increased loans and DFI to
privatized agro-businesses.             (iii) EDP supervision reports
Project Outputs
(i) farner and rural enterprise  (i) number of VAs established, number  Actual versus target performance
loans;                          of rural enterprise and farmer loans  based on: (i) reports from ACBA;
made, and repayment rates on loans;
(ii)   extension   information                                           (ii) reports from Agrogitaspyure;
consultations;                  (ii) distribution and number of extension
service visits with farms;              (iii)  reports  from   Agricultural
(iii) improved availability of                                           Academy and ARC;
agricultural education materials;  (iii) number of textbooks  supplied,
intemet  connections  set  up,  and  (iv)  reports  from   the   PIU's
(iv) improved  availability  of  improved quality of research;           agribusiness restructuring sections.
agribusiness      restructuring
information and training.       (iv) number of ADC training seminars.



36                                                                      Chapter 4
4.19      Efforts would also be made to establish a foundation for introducing fees for service
in the agricultural services area by ARSP implementation. The crucial issue is whether farmers
value these services enough to pay. Currently, too few farmers have been reached by the
extension system to form an informed opinion about the viability of fee for service. In the short-
term therefore, the availability of local budget will be crucial in covering the salaries of
government workers in the agencies involved in the ARSP (Agrogitaspyure, AgroPress,
Agricultural Research Centers, etc.). To achieve this, the MOA will have to allocate an average
of roughly US $600,000 annually. Thus, reallocating money from lower priority MOA activities
is one of the key steps needed to assure sustainability in terms of government financing.
Bilaterally financed technical assistance to support the implementation of all the components is
being sought, and in the cases of rural finance and agricultural extension such technical
assistance is already being provided by the EU and the US Department of Agriculture.
E. Environmental Impact
4.20      The proposed project would not create any substantive environmental hazards.
However, since a substantial part of rural credit provided under the Credit to Farmers component
could be used to finance the purchase of agro-chemicals, the project has been classified as a
category B project. No separate environmental analysis is deemed necessary, but the PFIs'
operational procedures for analyzing the storage and application of agro-chemicals when
considering the granting of a sub-loan will be carefully drafted and monitored by the
Agricultural Support Centers which the project would establish in each marz. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that these procedures will be mandatory for the PFIs. Moreover, the
farms obtaining sub-loans through the Credit to Farmners component are subject to the existing
regulations and environmental assessment procedures of the Ministry for Environmental
Protection.
F. Poverty
4.21      The project is not explicitly focused on poverty alleviation. It is focused on the
development of the rural finance system and the rekindling of demand from agricultural
processing enterprises for primary agricultural produce. Therefore, it has strong linkages to a
large number of small-scale private farmers. In this regard it would help increase the access of
poor farmers to formnal credit. The sectoral institutional strengthening and title registration
components would also improve agricultural practices and farmers' ability to borrow in the
medium-term. For these reasons the project will have an indirect but substantial impact on
poverty reduction.






CHAPTER 5
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Conditions of Appraisal
5.1       The following conditions of appraisal were all met by September 30, 1997:
(a)    The MOA should approve the proposed restructuring plan drafted by
the PPU for the agricultural research system and decide on the final restructuring
plan.
(b)    The MOA should set up an Agricultural Research Council in charge of
approving a strategic plan for the agricultural research system and hire the
Executive Director of the Agricultural Research Council.
(c)    The MOA should work out a methodology for the choice of locations
for the Agricultural Support Centers, a schedule for the formation of the centers,
and an administrative scheme for the centers that provides for the flow of project
fiunds to personnel affiliated with Agrogitaspyure, AgroPress, the Agricultural
Research Council, and the AgroMarketing enterprise.
(d)    The personnel of the Agribusiness Development Center should be
contracted through a series of local announcements and an evaluation by a board
including the PPU Director, a representative of the MOA, the Rector of the
Agricultural Academy, and the head of the AgroMarketing enterprise.
(e)    The GOA should issue an official resolution on the organizational
location of the government agency responsible for establishing and operating a
unified registration system for land and other real estate.
B. Conditions for Negotiations
5.2       Negotiations proceeded after the GOA fulfilled the following conditions:
(a)    The GOA created the Project Management Board for the ARSP to
include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and ACBA.
(b)    The ACBA finalized a business plan acceptable to IDA which includes
simulation analysis of the various levels of interest rate charged on long-term
borrowing (from the Bank and other sources) which ACBA could sustain, and
also expand its rural banking network as proposed.
(c)    Submission by the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance
and Economy of a request for budget for the operational costs of the Institutions
component of the ARSP encompassing the Agricultural Research Centers,
Agrogitaspyure, and AgroPress, and the social fund payments for the PIU, the



38                                                                      Chapter 5
Agricultural Support Centers, the Agricultural Research Council, and the
Agricultural Support Centers. This budget request was for the dram equivalent
of US $600,000 in calendar year 1998.
C. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.3       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)    all procurement activities under the project would follow  the
procedures outlined in Paras. 2.19 to 2.23;
(b)    disbursement arrangements would follow the procedures described in
Paras. 2.25 to 2.27;
(c)    arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account would
follow the procedures described in Para. 2.27;
(d)    the functions of the CFS, management of the Credit to Farmers
component, and the cooperation with ACBA and PFIs would be as described in
Paras. 3.6-3.7;
(e)    the participation criteria for the PFIs would be as described in Para.
3.13;
(f)    the appraisal methodology and terms and conditions for on-lending
under the project would be as specified in Paras. 3.14-3.19;
(g)    institutional arrangements regarding the auditing procedures for the
project accounts and the accounts of the PFIs would be as specified in Para.
3.22; and,
(h)    terms and conditions for the preparation and submission of progress
reports and of the ICR would follow the arrangements outlined in Paras. 3.23-
3.25; and,
(i)    the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between Ministry of
Finance and Economy and at least one qualified PFI would be a condition of
disbursement for the Credit to Farmers component as detailed in Para. 3.13.
D. Recommendation
5.4       With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 10.7 million (US $14.5 million equivalent) for 35 years, including 10 years of
grace.



Annex A
THE BANKING SECTOR
1.    In order to obtain a certain understanding of the present credit system, contacts were
made with Midland Armenian Bank (Midland Bank), Armagrobank, Armenian Bank of
Reconstruction and Development, United Bank and Agricultural Cooperative Bank of Armenia
(ACBA).
Midland Bank
2.    Midland Bank is, at present, the only Western bank operating in Armenia. The capital of
the bank is US $ 6 million, and it has been in operation for about two years in Yerevan. The
bank is interested in participating as an intermediary of the World Bank credit line under the
Enterprise Development Project. Midland Bank expressed a preference for lending to only
agro-industrial enterprises, not private farms.
3.    Midland Bank has only one office in Armenia at present, but is planning to increase the
number of offices within a year. The main lending type is short term loans, three to six months,
at a rate of 25 percent per year in US dollars. Up to now, few loans have been made over 12
months. Present borrowers are mainly traders. The size of sub-loans is being kept within a limit
of 5 percent of the capital (less than US $ 300,000). However, Midland Bank can make special
arrangements such as combining loan funds with suppliers credits to finance larger projects.
4.    The bank is interested in developing a lending program to the food processing sector as
long as good collateral and adequate business plans are presented. However, the management
stated that a careful view will be taken of introducing loans to the sector.
5.    According to Midland Bank, no applicable law exists, with regard to handling collateral,
which is a must if any more medium to long term financing program should take place. One of
the major problems expressed by Midland is the security of priorities on collateral. Apparently,
under Armenian law, the Tax Department has priority on claiming enterprise assets for non-paid
taxes. Banks are the second in line when trying to seize collateral pledged on overdue loans.
6.    Midland is the main lender not dependent on financing from the Central Bank of
Armenia (CBA). Its rates can be taken as a reliable indicator of market rates.
ArmagroBank (Agro Bank)
7.    The bank was previously a state-owned bank but has been converted into a joint stock
bank, with substantial ownership now by private companies and individuals. The bank has 48
branches, of which 5 are located in Yerevan. The bank is the second largest in Armenia with
capital of $700,000. It is involved in the EBRD financed Wholesale Market Project. Under this
project Armagrobank would receive a credit line of US $3.5 million for on-lending in the
agribusiness sector. As of November 1997, this arrangement had not been finalized.
8.    At present the bank is making only short term loans, with interest rates up to 90 percent
in local currency per year financed with loans at 40-50 percent from the Central Bank, but with



Annex A
Page 2 of 3
limited resources. Many of the agro-enterprises dealing with the bank complain about poor
service and very slow disbursements. Lending to farmers is quite small with a total outstanding
portfolio of US $140,000. Average loan to farmers is around US $5- 10 thousands.
9.    Armagrobank was audited by KPMG for the 1996 operational year and received a
favorable evaluation. The bank is currently being seriously considered for participation under
the EDP line of credit.
10.   Collateral now taken are gold, vehicles, real estate in Yerevan, state bonds, deposits, and
Government guarantees. Land is not yet accepted as collateral.
United Bank
11.   United Bank was created as a union of two banks: Armfood Bank and Hrazdan Bank. It
is owned mostly by state owned enterprises, and the main sector for its lending is agro-industry.
Total capital is US $ 600,000. At present the bank has three branches in Bagramian (Armavir
marz), Hrazdan (Kotaik marz), and Goris (Siunik marz), with headquarters in Yerevan.
12.   Volume of lending in 1996 was about AMD 240 million (US $ 600,000), and almost all
loans were short term, with an interest rate of 84 percent per year in local currency. Depositors
received about 24 percent annually in local currency (actually 36 percent, but the State
apparently takes 12 percent in tax up front).
13.   Both Armagro Bank (Agro Bank) and United Bank expressed an interest to participate in
the ARSP credit line to on-lend to farmers, but neither of the banks have much experience in
lending to small farmers.
Armenian Development Bank
14.   The bank was established in 1990 and has been licensed by the Central Bank to operate
outside Armenia. Consequently, the bank has several of the main commercial banks in Europe
as their corresponding banks, and 80 percent of the operation is on the transfer of funds in and
out of Armenia (some US $ 1.5 million per month). Equity capital is US $ 360,000, total assets
are US $ 780,000 (end September 1996) and loan portfolio US $ 260,000. All loans are short
term, and mainly for trading. The interest rate presently charged is 62 percent per year in local
currency. The management stated that the economic and political situation in Armenia does not
justify making loans for longer than 12 months due to high risk.
15.   Collateral for loans are mainly gold, other precious metals or stones and real estate.
Repayment of loans is as high as 99 percent, according to the management. When a new law on
collateral is passed and resolves currently unclear procedures in liquidity property pledged as
collateral, the bank believes that the provision of security for the loans will be easier.
16.   The bank has one office, under construction, in Yerevan. The building is impressive,
and will have future space for rent. In total, the bank has some 1,000 clients, of which 70 percent
are enterprises, in one form or another. The bank has no experience with farmers.



Annex A
Page 3 of 3
Agricultural Cooperative Banlk
17.   The bank was established two years ago by the Ministry of Finance, Fanners Union and
EU-TACIS, allocating the counterpart funds of US $ 2 million equivalent, obtained from sales of
flour for bread. From the start the bank has got technical assistance from TACIS through Credit
Agricole (France).  Actual lending operation started in May 1996, and the bank has three
Regional branches:
Ararat branch (serving Ararat marz)
Giumri branch (serving Shirak marz)
Armavir branch (serving Armavir marz)
18    The cooperative bank is partly owned by the regional unions of village associations. In
mid-1997, there were about 100 village associations. Only members of the village associations
can apply for loans. The bank has established in each of village associations a committee
(between 7-9 people) of senior farmers (belonging to village associations). Considerable work
went into the selection of the committees. Each committee evaluates each credit application
form. After an on-farm site visit to confirm the data of each application and after subsequent
spreadsheet analysis, each application is reviewed for final approval.
19.   ACBA lending program has been developed in three stages:
Phase I: started in May 1996 involved 477 farmers, getting in average a loan of US $ 420
equivalent. Maximum loan amount was US $ 500 per farmer. Total amount disbursed was US $
200,000.
Phase II: started in September 1996 and covered more 1,200 farmers by the end of 1996.
Maximum loan amount was US $ 600 per farmer.
Phase III: started in March 1997, increased the maximum loan size to US $ 1,000 per fanner, and
covered about 2000 farmers. In 1998, ACBA will consider providing loans to larger farms with
maximum loan amount up to $25,000 and term up to 3-4 years. This is clearly contingent on
ACBA's ability to borrow from World Bank and other sources, since an active effort to expand
services at the village association level to include taking deposits is scheduled to begin only in
1998. The repayment rate of the first three lending campaigns was over 98%.
Other financing to agro-industries
20.   USAID is providing funds for financing of small and medium sized enterprises,
including agro-processors. The implementation agency is Eurasia Foundation. The credit line of
US $ 2,000,000 started already in 1995, and apparently a total amount of US $ 250,000 have
been disbursed. Financial intermediary is Anelik Bank, and other commercial banks will be
selected. The interest rate is 15 percent in US dollars to the final borrower for loans up to US $
25,000 and for a maximum of one year. The cost of the fund to the financial intermediary is 2
percent. Disbursement is going slowly because collateral requirements are very stringent and
each loan application has to be approved by the Eurasia Foundation in Washington.






Annex B
Description of Project Implementation Unit
1.    The PIU is being formed on the basis of the existing Project Preparation Unit and will
report to the Project Implementation Committee (PIC), chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
The head of the PIU would be the Project Director and principal link between the Bank and the
Government.
2.    The functions of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) are to:
(a)    provide information to, and seek guidance from the PIC on all issues concerning
progress in project implementation;
(b)   coordinate the recruitment of foreign and local consultants for implementation of
the Registration, Credit to Farmers, Agrobusiness Development Center, and Agricultural
Institutions Strengthening components of the project;
(c)    prepare semi-annual progress reports on the project to be submitted to IDA and
the Government;
(d)   ensure that the financial accounts of each of the sub-components are audited
annually as stipulated in the Credit Agreement; and,
(e)    maintain a consolidated account of all the project's components to be available
to IDA's supervision missions.
3.    The PIU will be composed as follows:
(a)    a Project Manager;
(b)   an Agricultu-ral Institutions Coordinator - Deputy Project Manager;
(c)    a Specialist for Credit to Farmers;
(d)    a Agricultural Institutions Specialist;
(e)    a Procurement and Contract Specialist;
(f)   an Office Manager;
(g)    Accountants (2);
(h)   Interpreters (2);
(i)    a Computer Specialist;
(j)    a Secretary;
(k)   an Office Manager Assistant;
(1)    Drivers (3);and
(m)   a Cleaning person.
4.    The projected budget for the PIU over the four and a half years of the project is provided
in the accompanying Annex B - Summary Table.



ANNEX B - SUMMARY TABLE
Project Implementation Unit             PPF     Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Total
Vehicles                                     10.0    30.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    40.0
Minibus                                              20.0                              20.0
4 W.D. Vehicles                              10.0    10.0                              20.0
Computer Equipment                                   16.0                              16.0
'hotocopier                                           4.0                               4.0
Portable Computer Set                                 4.0                               4.0
Computer Set finc. UPS & Printer)                     8.0                               8.0
Offfice Fumishings & Equipment                       10.0                              10.0
Training Equipment                                    5.0                               5.0
Office Refurbishment                                 10.0                              10.0
rraining and Technical Assistance                    37.5    30.0    30.0    15.0   112.5
Operating Costs                             76.4   132.8   132.8   132.8   132.8   607.7
Office Rent                                   1.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      9.0
Office Operation Costs                       9.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    81.0
Communications                               4.8      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6    43.2
Vehicles O&M                                 3.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    51.0
Other Equipment Depreciation                 0.0      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7    18.6
'Salaries                                   58.6    86.6    86.6    86.6    86.6   404.9
Project Manager                   0.79     8.6     9.4      9.4     9.4      9.4    46.4
Credit Component Coordinator      0.57     5.1     6.9      6.9     6.9      6.9    32.6
Ag Inst. Coordinator- Dep. Manager  0.64   7.1      7.7     7.7     7.7      7.7    37.9
Ag. Inst. Specialist              0.50     2.5      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0    26.5
Accountants                       1.00     2.5    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    50.5
Office Manager                    0.47     5.2     5.7      5.7     5.7      5.7    27.8
Procurement Specialist            0.50     2.5     6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0    26.5
Interpreters                      0.86     6.9    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    48.0
Computer Specialist               0.36     3.9     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3    21.1
Secretary                         0.29     3.1     3.4      3.4     3.4      3.4    16.9
Manager Assistant                 0.24     2.7     2.9      2.9     2.9      2.9    14.3
Drivers                           0.86     6.9    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3    48.0
Cleaning Person                   0.14     1.6      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.7     8.4
Taxes                                       21.7    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0   149.8
GRAND TOTAL                                 108.0   273.4   194.9   194.9   179.9   951.0
Page 1



Annex C
Credit to Farmers Component
Functions of Credit to Farmers Specialist (CFS)
1. The functions of the CFS are to:
(a)   Prepare Subsidiary Loan Agreements with ACBA and the ARSP
credit line, potentially other PFIs that will on-lend funds under monitor
their on-going eligibility in close consultation with the CBA Supervision
Department, and propose remedies and improve corrective measures and
sanctions on ACBA and other PFIs falling out of compliance with the
terms and conditions of the Loan Agreements.
(b)   Develop and maintain the database, accounting systems and other
information systems for managing and reporting on the line of credit.
(c)   Facilitate and monitor the technical assistance (TA) and other
technical support provided to the ACBA and other PFIs.
(d)   Implement the disbursement and procurement procedures and
arrangements, ensure compliance with PIU rules, and provide
disbursement and procurement reports to the, PIU based on agreed
schedules.
(e)   Examine the PFIs' sub-project accounting records, and arrange
for regular audits of the project accounts.
(f)   Monitor interest payments from ACBA and other PFIs to the
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) under the terms and
conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements.
(g)   For PFI sub-loans above US $ 10,000, confirm that disbursement
requests comply with all eligibility requirements and that the required
legal documents and signatories are in order, and approve requests for
disbursements under the sub-loan.
(h)   Conduct ex-post reviews, and report findings to PIU according to
specific agreements, on ACBA's and other PFIs' accounting of the sub-
loans and the utilization of the credit line.
(i)   Ensure that all other compliance requirements under the PIU line
of credit are met.



Annex C
Page 2 of 3
Organizational Structure
2.    The CFS will be situated within the PIU and will report to the Project Manager.
The CFS will work in cooperation with the PIU Accountant and a support staff. In
addition, the CFS will be supported by one foreign advisor who will assist in examining
the ACBA and PFIs for participation in on-lending, monitoring their on-going eligibility
and setting up systems and procedures for managing the line of credit.
3. The duties of the local staff and foreign advisor are as follows:
(a)   The CFS will be responsible for:
Ex-post sub-loan eligibility reviews and reporting;
Review of the standard sub-loan agreements of the banks with the
farmers;
Analysis and consolidation of the sub-loan portfolio performance
reporting;
IReferral to PIU on sub-loan applications requiring its approval for
funding;
* Referral to PIU for disbursement of the loans after proper
verification of the documents and necessary approvals.
(b)    he PIU Accountat will be responsible for:
Setting up the credit component's accounts, accounting system and
related documentation controls;
Requesting the PIU manager to make disbursements from "Special
Account" based on documentation submitted from the PFIs;
Arranging for audits on sub-loans project accounts above US
$10,000;
Monitoring interest payments from subsidiary loans;
Reporting, as required, on project disbursement and collection
performance under the credit line.
(d)   Local Support StUf will include a secretary.
(e)   The foreign Advisor will be responsible for assisting the CFS with:
Examining the ACBA and PFIs for participation in the line of
credit and monitoring their on-going eligibility for participation in
the PIU project;
Coordinating with other donors and the government on the
technical assistance services being provided to ACBA and PFIs to



Annex C
Page 3 of 3
improve the institutional development of the banks who are
participating and those who wish to meet and comply with the
eligibility criteria;
Qualifications of the Local Staf
4.   In general, the qualifications of the local staff should be as follows:
(a)   The Credit to Farmers Specialist needs to be experienced and trained in the
project finance, credit structuring and evaluation methodologies. Prior experience in
credit administration department, or a strong training in this area, in a commercial bank
would be necessary.
(b)   The Accountant needs to have an accounting degree and practical background,
experience, and training in bank accounting preferably under international standards and
applications. The Accounting Manager will also work closely with the PIU on
procurement procedures and practices.
5.    The SCF needs to be fully operational for the duration of the ARSP. However,
after full disbursement of the credit line has been made, the SCF will have mainly
monitoring activities. The foreign advisor financed by PIU is expected to be in place for 5
person-months during the first three years of the project. Extension of this contract will
depend on project's needs and the availability of funds.
Reporting Reqguirements
6.    The SCF will report semi-annually on the sub-loan portfolio performance and
progress, and the post-lending review for the compliance of the sub-loans with the terms
and conditions as specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Key reporting
requirements include, compliance of the ACBA and PFIs, status of the technical
assistance provided and received by the ACBA and PFIs, and the ex-post facto reviews of
the utilization of the line of credit.



I
i



Annex D
Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions
A.    Introduction
1.     The ARSP Component for Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions focuses on the
development of an agricultural technology system to serve the development of a science based,
market-oriented agricultural sector that is responsive to the changing needs of the Armenia
Republic. This agricultural institutions component of the ARSP project will provide support for
the immediate reform and restructuring of agricultural research and the further development of
education, extension, and information institutions. It is currently government policy that the
functions of research, education and extension will eventually be integrated and managed by the
Armenia Agricultural Academy. Therefore, the project is designed to provide for the systematic
integration of all these functions by the year 2001. This is being accomplished at two levels,
regional and national. At the Marz regional level, the process will begin immediately with full
support of the development and recurrent costs of 10 Agricultural Support Centers to be
managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. At the national level, this integration will take place
over a four year period and be guided by a newly created Agricultural Scientific-Technical
Policy Council (called the Agricultural Research Council-ARC in this document).
2.     The institutions being strengthened under the ARSP are shown below as part of 5 sub-
components: I. agricultural research, II. higher education, III. advisory services, IV. information
services, and V. support services.
B.    Agricultural Research - Agricultural Research Council
Background
3.     There are 14 scientific-research institutes and several associated stations and farms under
the Ministry of Agriculture. They are:
(a) Scientific-Research Institute of Agriculture (Seed Production Association)
(b) Scientific-Research Institute of Viticulture, Wine-making and Fruit-growing
(c) Scientific-Research Institute of Soil Science and Agrochemistry
(d) Scientific-Research Institute of Economics
(e) Scientific-Research Institute of Vegetable/Melon
(f) Scientific-Research Institute of Veterinary
(g) Scientific-Research Institute of Animal Breeding
(h) Scientific-Research Institute of Plant Protection
(i) Scientific-Research Institute of Water Problems and Hydraulic Engineering
(j) Scientific Production and Planning State Enterprise of Food
(k) Scientific-Research Station of Industrial Crops
(1) Scientific-Research Station of Apiculture
(m) Scientific production State Enterprise of Silk-worm
(n) Scientific production State Enterprise of Oil Plants



Annex D
Page 2 of 11
4.     All the above research institutes have, for the last five years and more, been under
considerable pressure due to enormous reductions in budgetary allocations. This has put their
very existence at great risk. Low salaries have resulted in an outflow of both scientific and
support personnel. In 1996, the 14 research institutes received budgets totaling $180,000 which
provided support for 79 approved themes supporting 310 of their 517 research scientists.
Moreover, the system of allocating all of these funds to identified themes of research means that
the general research capacity of the institutes, and their flexibility to address requests for short-
term research results, is very limited. Furthermore, scientific-research activities are not yet well-
adapted to the privatization process that is being implemented in the agricultural sector. The
transition to a more farmer oriented, applied type of research has not yet really begun since
scientists are not yet fully aware of the needs of domestic farmers. Also, the scientific and the
practical specialists working in the institutes have almost no links with similar research
institutions and specialists from developed countries.
5.    It is commonly agreed that the agricultural research system needs to be restructured and
provided with sufficient investments and support to encourage scientists' initiative, agility, and
ability to be responsive the needs of small scale private farmers. New processes for defining the
research agenda and linking research with advisory services and farmers need to be developed to
ensure the relevance of research for agriculture in the emerging market economy.
Objectives
6.     The project is designed to assist the Government of Armenia with the following
objectives:
a)     To develop a sustainable national agricultural research system that involves
good governance, a strategic plan, prioritized programs, adequate financing, improved
facilities, an effective organizational structure, motivated human resources, reduced
overhead costs and effective responses to national needs. This includes the development
of five agricultural research centers to concentrate researchers, facilities and equipment
for efficient investment and improved program management.
b)     To develop priority research programs to meet current transition and future
market-oriented needs.
c)     To improve information flows among scientists (internal and external) and
between Armenian scientists and farmer clients through the development of improved
science and client linkage mechanisms (this objective is planned to be met through
support of selected activities in other sub-components for AAA and ASC).
Scope of the Sub-Components
7.     The scope of the ARSP sub-component on agricultural research institutions includes the
following activities: (i) the establishment and operations of an Agricultural Research Council
(ARC) to guide and manage the national agricultural research system composed of five Research
Centers with linkages to (and eventual integration with) the Armenian Agricultural Academy
(AAA); (ii) the development of the five Research Centers; and (iii) support for priority research
programs. While improvements in scientific information flows and the development of client
farmer linkages are considered vital to an effective research system, these two activities are



Annex D
Page 3 of 11
planned and budgeted in other sub-components (higher education and support services).
Categories for loan funding include facility improvement, equipment, vehicles, local and
international training, technical assistance, program funds, and limited recurrent costs
(communications, supplies, fuel, travel, repairs).
8.    The Agricultural Research Council (ARC) - Project support is needed to facilitate the
initial operations of a newly created (late June 1997) "Agricultural Scientific-Technical Policy
Council" for the guidance and management of the new national agricultural research system.
This Council (called the Agricultural Research Council in this document) is composed of
primary stakeholders including: the Minister of Agriculture, Deputy Minister of Agriculture,
Chief of the MOA Department of Science and Education, the Rector of the AAA, Directors of 7
research institutes, President of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences (AAS), Director of
Agrogitaspure, Director of AgroPress, two farmer representatives and two industry
representatives. While details are now being developed, it is proposed that the Council meet 6 or
more times per year to: (1) advise on agricultural research, education and extension policy and
strategies; (2) support strategic planning and priority-setting processes; (3) review and make
recommendations on research, education and extension plans; (4) monitor and evaluate on-going
activities; (5) facilitate program coordination among institutions in the national agricultural
technology system; (6) identify opportunities for cooperation with external research institutions;
and (7) facilitate the planned future integration of the research system into the Armenian
Agricultural Academy (AAA) within 4
years.
9.    The Council will establish an Executive unit to manage the agricultural research system
on a day-to-day basis. A temporary Executive Director for the Council has already been
appointed (the Rector of AAA). Other staff are likely to include a Deputy Director for Station
Management, a Deputy Director for Information Management and support staff. A Task Force
would be formed to initiate the process of change. The terms of reference for this Task Force
would include: 1) develop a strategic plan for agricultural research; 2) define the sub-units of the
five new Research Centers; 3) define positions for recruitment of staff for the new research
centers; 4) establish a new program planning and formnulation system for agricultural research; 5)
establish agricultural research priorities by use of a priority setting system; 6) make plans for
renovations of facilities; 7) identify research equipment and vehicles to be purchased; and 8)
establish linkages with Agrogitaspure, AgroPress and the AAA. Funds needed for Task Force
activities include office facilities improvement, vehicles (including operations and maintenance),
office equipment and supplies, communications and a computer network. All Task Force
investments would be retained for use of the ARC. The project would provide operations
support for ARC, including salaries for its 12 staff, for the entire four years of the project.
10.   A strategic planning exercise (including preliminary program priority-setting) would be
conducted by the Task Force beginning in 1997. This 6 to 9 month exercise has started as a pre-
project activity with the establishment by Government of the ARC Executive unit and Research
Centers and will continue into the project period. Support is being provided under the Project
Preparation Facility for foreign technical assistance, local transportation, a computer,
communications, supplies and materials necessary for the functioning of a task force.
11.   Research Centers - the Ministry of Agriculture is establishing five new Research Centers
(Field Crops, Vegetable Crops, Horticultural Crops, Livestock and Veterinary, and Soil and



Annex D
Page 4 of 11
Water) for organizing research. After a thorough review, it is been decided that the five newly
developed Research Centers be constituted as follows: (1) Field Crops (at the facilities of the
Plant Protection Institute including the activities of Agriculture/Seeds and Plant Protection
Institutes), (2) Vegetable Crops (remaining at the location of the Vegetable/Melon Institute and
including the activities of the Industrial Crops Institute), (3) Horticulture Crops (remaining at the
location of the Viticulture Institute and including the activities of the Silkworm Institute), (4)
Livestock and Veterinary (at the facilities of the Animal Breeding Institute with an animal health
component), and (5) Soil and Water Management (at the facilities of the Soil Science and
Agrochemistry Institute with a water management component). Other existing institutes will be
privatized or dissolved. The number of research stations will be reduced and those retained
would be managed by the ARC to serve the purposes of the entire system in the various agro-
ecological zones throughout the country.
12.   Investments are needed to improve selected facilities and equipment, primarily at five
new Research Centers. Once decisions are finalized on the internal organization, location and
allocation of space for units of the new Centers, funds for the improvement of facilities to an
acceptable standard and for new laboratory, field equipment and transportation would be
provided. The focus of the funding for this component will be on the rehabilitation of
laboratories and greenhouses although some general facilities improvements will be included.
Funding for laboratory, greenhouse and irrigation facilities and equipment is budgeted on the
basis of standard units since overall decisions on facilities and detailed equipment lists need to
be finalized. Funding for maintenance of these facilities is budgeted on a basis of 5% of cost per
year over the 4 year period. The budget includes: rehabilitation of buildings and greenhouses;
laboratory and office furnishings; laboratory, greenhouse, irrigation, field and office equipment;
vehicles (including operations and maintenance); computer setups; and technical assistance.
13.   Research Programs - Support is needed for specialized equipment and for recurrent costs
of priority research programs and projects that are responsive to current and projected
agricultural sector needs. Priority setting procedures will be used to set the research agenda for
Armenia's needs and to select programs and projects for support. The priority programs will
likely be commodity/resource based and will be executed primarily by scientists of the new
Research Centers and the AAA. These programs will focus on applied and adaptive as well as
maintenance type research. Approved projects responsive to the specific problems identified
within each of these programs will be the primary mechanism for funding research program
activities. Peer review by competent scientists would be used to determine scientific merit as
appropriate. A travel fund would be maintained by the ARC to support international training and
the participation of scientists in scientific meetings. Funds are needed to support priority
research programs (major item), the purchase and maintenance of special equipment,
international technical assistance, and the travel fund for participation in international training
programs and scientific meetings.
Cost Estimate for ARC, Research Centers, Research Programs: US $4,536,580
See Annex D Budget Tables I A-D for more details on costs, including both loan and
Government financing.



Annex D
Page 5 of 11
C.    Higher Education - Armenian Agricultural Academy
Background
14.   The educational institutions offering agricultural programs under the Department of
Education and Science of the Ministry of Agriculture have already made considerable efforts to
restructure the system and, therefore, now offer an education better suited to the current
conditions prevailing in Armenia. According to a Government decision, the higher education
institutes have moved to a three level system, i.e., B.Sc., M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees.
15.   In August 1994, the Agricultural and Veterinary Universities were merged into one:
Armenian Agricultural Academy (AAA ). The AAA is currently associated with 4 regional
colleges:
(a)    Nor Geghy Agricultural College
(b)    Yerevan Hydromelioration College
(c)    Stepanavan Agricultural College
(d)    Gavar Agricultural College
16.   Training activities in the colleges are being organized by agreement with AAA in
accordance with specialties and their curricula. New forms of ownership and economy as well as
market relations have been taken into consideration when compiling the programs. About 20-30
% of the college students (those with high marks) are sent to the AAA after two years to continue
their study to get a B.Sc. degree.
17.   The AAA and its 4 associated colleges have about 568 teachers and 6,007 students.
There are 6 Faculties at the AAA operating in accordance with the requirements of the reforms
being realized in the agricultural sector. They consist of 44 chairs where specialists are prepared
in 25 professions instead of the former 17. The AAA and four colleges have already been
partially restructured, but they need considerable further assistance to be able to attain acceptable
international educational standards. Modern technological information is almost totally absent in
many subjects and investments in this field will bring considerable benefits to the educational
system. The Academy library can only meet the needs of a small fraction of its staff and
students in terms of textbooks, scientific literature and magazines. An outdated publishing
complex attempts to prepare low-cost education materials and textbooks for students.
Objectives
18.   While the needs of AAA are many, there are two major objectives for support to the
AAA under ARSP: (I) to improve access to scientific and technical information for students,
teachers and researchers (AAA and ARC); and, (ii) to improve the ability of AAA to produce
low cost educational and scientific publications.
Scope of the Sub-Component
19.   The scope of the agricultural higher education sub-component is confined to the AAA.
The two activities to be supported are improvements in (1) the agricultural library, and (2)
printing facilities. These are described below.



Annex D
Page 6 of 11
20.   Library  - The library is the primary information center for students, teachers and
researchers. The project will support the modernization of the Library including up-to-date
literature acquisition and improved access for all AAA students and teachers. In addition, there
is a critical need for improving information flows between and among scientists (particularly
with those outside of Armenia). Improved access to external scientific information sources
would be accomplished through the acquisition of international scientific literature, electronic
linkages (INTERNET) to knowledge centers, computer storage and retrieval systems, translation
services, and publication services. Support will go primarily to the AAA to manage the research
information system for both AAA and the ARC research centers (through computer linkages).
This centralization of agricultural information is cost-effective and prepares for the eventual
integration of research centers into the AAA within the next 4 years. Funds are needed for the
rehabilitation of rooms, equipment, computer setups, purchases of books and journals,
communications, supplies, special staff, international technical assistance, and participation in
local and international training programs.
21.   Printing Facilities - The AAA has a tradition of in-house publishing of textbooks,
research publications and other agricultural materials useful for the agricultural community in
general. This gives low-cost access to educational materials needed by students and allows for
the immediate publication of technological information for others. Support will be provided to
improve the current publishing complex at the AAA in order to increase its output of specialized
literature, text-books, magazines, etc.
Cost Estimate for Higher Education: US $687,700
See Annex D Budget Table 2 for more details on costs, including both loan and Government
financing.
D.    Agricultural Advisory Services - Agrogitaspure
Background
22.   "Agrogitaspure" (Agricultural Extension Service), which was established in 1992 under
the Ministry of Agriculture, is still in early stages of development and is currently providing
advisory services in the each of the 38 regions of 10 Marzes (provinces) of the Republic of
Armenia. Currently, 39 people are engaged in the Yerevan Central Headquarters whereas in the
regional-agencies there are 321 specialists employed, of which 209 are rural agents (170 full-
time and 39 part-time).
23.   According to their area of training, these agents comprise 191 agronomists, 49 animal
breeders, 28 vets, 8 land surveyors and drainage experts, 16 engineer-technicians, 24 economists,
and 5 lawyers. The Extension Service's information areas cover mainly the organization of
agricultural production, pest and weed control, crop and animal health care, and produce
processing and storage. Activities include:
(a)    Organization and realization of training courses in the newest local and foreign
achievements regarding agricultural management, production, processing and sales;



Annex D
Page 7 of 11
(b)    Organization of exhibitions of highly effective technologies and agricultural
inputs;
(c)    Preparation and dissemination (using local press, radio, and TV) of information
on techniques and methods to produce introduced commodities; and
(d)    Development and dissemination of programs to increase production efficiency
and farm profitability.
24.   The advisory services are delivered free of charge through the extension specialists, as
well as through the mass media provided by the Editorial Center of "AgroPress" under the
Ministry of Agriculture. During 1996, 28 newsletters with 10,500 issued copies were provided
to 38 agencies, and 30 articles were published in 11 issues of the "AgroPress" newspaper. In
each of the regional agencies, 3 scientific-practical workshops were organized and 8 TV
programs on 21 subjects were broadcast. However, due to the lack of financial resources and
other means required for transportation, office operations, audiovisual equipment and training,
the efficiency of the Agricultural Extension Service in terms of the full-scale implementation of
the above-mentioned activities has been limited.
25.   Recently, it was decided to establish Marz (provincial) structures of Agrogitaspure to
significantly raise the work efficiency of the overall extension system and, thereby, positively
assist the newly created peasant farmers to increase their productivity. In 1997, support was
provided by the USDA to furnish 3 Marz extension offices with modern technical means and
necessary equipment and transport. Recently, it was decided that these 3 Marz extension centers
will become multi-purpose Agricultural Support Centers including extension, adaptive research,
information and market support units. Since the ARSP will support the development of these
centers (see Section V below) and Agrogitaspure will utilize these centers, direct support for
Agrogitaspure is limited to technical equipment for the main office of Agrogitaspure and the
provision of transportation for 32 regional offices.
Objectives
26.   The objectives of this sub-component are to improve the office related equipment
required by the headquarters of Agrogitaspure in order to manage a more decentralized system
and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of Agrogitaspure service activities at the regional
level.
Scope of the Sub-Component
27.   In view of the recent decision to develop multi-purpose Agricultural Support Centers
(ASC) and that the ARSP will play a major role in supporting the development and operations of
these new Centers, direct support to Agrogitaspure is limited to the following two areas.
28.   Agrogitaspure Headquarters - the creation of the Marz level offices of Agrogitaspure in
the newly created ASCs is a decision to decentralize Agrogitaspure and make it more responsive
to the needs in each Marz. This means that communications and support from headquarters
needs to be efficient and responsive. Accordingly, the project will provide a minibus for



Annex D
Page 8 of 11
seminars and training, a computer set-up and modem for networking with the Marz offices, a
phone/fax machine, a photocopier and international technical assistance.
29.   Regional Transportation - One of the most limiting factors for extension agents is the
ability to travel to farmers to provide mandated services and to travel to the Marz centers for
meetings and seminars. Accordingly, the project will provide one vehicle, including maintenance
and operating costs, for each of 32 regions to support the 3 to 4 agents employed at that level.
Cost Estimates for the Agricultural Advisory Services Component: US $1,256,960
See Annex D Budget Table 3 for more details on costs, including both loan and Government
financing.
E.    Information Services - AgroPress
Background
30.   Taking into account the reforms that are being implemented within the agro-food system
and prioritizing the important role of information in it, an "AgroPress" Editorial Center was
established in January 1996 through the integration of several editorial units. Currently,
AgroPress is publishing a magazine called "Agroscience" and a newspaper called "Agrolratu,"
and is preparing and delivering radio broadcasts and TV programs. A total of 6 Agroscience
issues were published in 1996 and, due to the fact that the magazines also include the English
and Russian texts of the scientific articles, it has become possible to cooperate with the editorial
units and scientific centers of 37 countries. The newspaper "Agrolratu" is issued 3 times
monthly, with 2,000 copies, and includes advisory, informational and market information.. The
radio programs are broadcast once a week with 15 minutes of duration and TV programs are
shown twice a month with 20 minutes of duration. During the busy agricultural season, the
intensity of programs increases.
31.   Agricultural sector reforms and agricultural industrial privatization have placed new
requirements on AgroPress, particularly in terms of its management and development. Quality
infornation is necessary for both the Government and the agricultural sector . At present, there
are serious difficulties in the process of obtaining and disseminating information on the
agricultural situation throughout Armenia. Because of the lack of the necessary equipment, the
link with the Marz (province) offices of AgroPress is not stable. For the republic with more than
320,000 farm families, the current 2000 copies of "Agrolratu" newspaper distributed monthly is
insufficient. The major constraint to distributing the necessary volume of these publications and
increasing the frequency of radio and TV programs is the timely access to printing and audio-
visual studio facilities.
Objectives
32.   The objectives of this sub-component are to increase the capability of AgroPress to
produce relevant and timely publications and TV programs and to ensure that key persons get
access to science and farm level information.



Annex D
Page 9 of 11
Scope of the Sub-Component
33.   AgroPress has proven to be a vital component of the agricultural technology system and
has the potential for being a powerful instrument for promoting the transition to the market
economy. AgroPress plans to have 7 units: newspaper, science magazine, farmer magazine,
analytical information service, radio studio, TV studio and publishing house. The scope of work
for the ARSP is to support the development of the TV studio, the enhancement of the publishing
house and, indirectly, the science and farmer magazines.
34.   TV Studio - AgroPress is currently dependent on outside services for the production of
agricultural TV programs and often is unable to edit video materials received from other sources.
The ARSP will provide AgroPress with the equipment and training needed to operate a TV
studio and a vehicle. This will enable AgroPress to be more pro-active in producing timely and
relevant educational materials for farmers and the general public.
35.   Publishing House - AgroPress already has some equipment for printing, but unit costs
are high due to the type and condition of this equipment. The ARSP will provide to AgroPress
the necessary equipment to upgrade the publishing house resulting in the ability to reduce costs.
Included are a Ryzograph printer, a computer set-up and training for AgroPress staff.
36.   Subscriptions - AgroPress is currently producing an excellent Agroscience magazine
allowing agricultural scientists to publish results of their research in a timely fashion. Since the
capability to produce this magazine already exists, but funds are insufficient for printing and
distribution, ARSP will guarantee distribution of Agroscience to 600 agricultural scientists in the
country by purchasing 4 year subscriptions for each of them. In addition, AgroPress wants to
resurrect and revise the farmer magazine (to be called Nor Ghyukh) which was started in 1992
and ceased in 1995 due to financial problems. This magazine is designed to provide professional
advice to farmers, future farmers, land owners and agribusiness operators. To encourage its
publications, ARSP will purchase 1,200 subscriptions for 4 years and make them available to
agents of Agrogitaspure on the basis of farmer population in their respective regions.
Cost Estimates for the Information Services Sub-Component: US $472,000
See Annex D Budget Table 4 for more details on costs, including both loan and Government
financing.
F.    Support Services - Agricultural Support Centers
Background
37.   An Agricultural Support Center (ASC) is a Marz level office which provides
coordination and basic infrastructure for government research, technical advisory, information
and marketing services to farmners. Four Ministry of Agriculture units, therefore, will have
representatives in each Center: Agrogitaspure, Agro-Press, the Agricultural Research Council,
and Agro-Marketing. Through these representatives, ASC activities include:
(a)    The organization of adaptive research for farmer evaluation of technology;



Annex D
Page 10 of 11
(b)    The provision of advice to farmers on alternative technologies and methods;
(c)    An increase in the flow of information to and from farmers; and,
(d)    Assistance to farmers in developing business plans for credit and marketing.
38.   With the distribution of a large portion of agricultural lands to over 300,000 private
persons and additional lands scheduled for future allocation, the need for technology services in
rural areas has become necessary, if not urgent. The initiation of services to new farmers was
through the development (with the assistance of the USDA) of Agrogitaspure as the MOA's
advisory services unit. Agrogitaspure has recently established offices in 3 Marzes with
assistance from the USDA which terminates this year. The current plan is to convert these three
Agrogitaspure units to multipurpose support centers by adding the functions of adaptive
research, information, and market support to advisory services. This would be followed by the
establishment of the remaining 7 Agricultural Support Centers combining all technology services
in each Marz with centralized support systems.
39.   A Marz ASC Council, consisting of representatives of farmers and farmer associations,
agribusiness, Marz government, and regional government agencies, would guide the operations
of the ASC. A coordinator is be selected on a competitive basis by the Ministry of Agriculture to
manage the office facilities, assure program coordination, and maintain linkages with Marz
Government. This person will also be fully responsible for all ARSP activities relating to the
funding of the ASC.
40.   The services of the ASCs would allow for the establishment of computer networks to
link Yerevan units with each of the Marzes, the economical use of vehicles and the essential
office support systems needed by each unit. Not only can operational economies be achieved,
but also, there is considerable opportunity for program cooperation and linkages at the local level
to better serve farmer needs.
Objectives
41.   The objectives of this sub-component are to offer coordinated national services to
farmers in each Marz, to reduce the overhead costs of these services, and to link national services
with Marz objectives and programs for agriculture.
Scope of the Sub-Component
42.    The operations of the Agricultural Support Centers are central to the design of the
component on Strengthening of Agricultural Institutions of the ARSP. This is one important
point where existing agricultural technology institutions interact with their clients, the farmers.
Since these are new units designed to strengthen the capacity of existing institutions to serve
farmers, ARSP will provide both investment and operations costs. The scope of work, therefore,
is as follows:
43.   ASC Development - the ARSP project will be responsible for creating 7 new Marz ASCs
in addition to the 3 already established through USDA funding.. Each ASC will be located in an
existing facility in the Marz which will be renovated for this purpose. Each Center will have a
minimum of 4 rooms, a vehicle, two table computer set-ups, one laptop, photocopier,
phone/FAX, modem, training materials, and other materials as needed.



Annex D
Page 11 of 11
44.   ASC Operations - ARSP will provide the recurrent costs of the overall support services
of all 10 Centers for the first 4 years subject to agreement by the Ministry and Agriculture and
the Marz government to support them thereafter. This support includes salaries of the I I staff of
the each of the Centers (see chart below) as well as staff training activities. Operations of the
Centers include the development and operation of a computer based network to provide
communications with information sources, headquarters offices, and other Marz Centers. The
actual program activities of the 4 MOA agencies in each of the Marz centers, however, will be
the responsibility of these respective agencies
45.   Each Marz ASC will have the following staffing pattern:
Title                                       Number
ASC Coordinator                                 1
Research Liaison Officer (ARC)                  I
Advisors (Agrogitaspure)                        2
Information Officers (Agro-Press)               I
Market Specialists (Agro-Marketing)             I
Computer operator                               1
Finance officer                                 1
Technical staff (driver/keeper/cleaner)         3
Total                                           11
Cost Estimate for the Agricultural Support Centers Component: US $1,621,150
See Annex D Budget Table 5 for more details on costs, including both loan and Government
financing.



ANNEX 0- SUMMARY TABLE
Agricultural Institutions Component                      PPF       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
Velhicles                                                     60.0    440.0                                     500.0
Vehicles for Agricultural Institutions                          0.0    280.0                                    280.0
Vehicles for Ag ricutitural Research Council                   10.0      10.0                                    20.0
Vehicles for Agricultural Support Centers                     50.0    150.0                                     200.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cornputer Equipment                                           69.5    289.5       31.0       16.0       8.0    414.0
Conputer and Publishing Equipment for Ag Inst.                         206.5       31.0      16.0       8.0    261.5
Comnputer Eq. for Ag Research Council                          11.5       4.0                                    15.5
Computer Equipment for Ag Support Centers                      58.0      79.0                                   137.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Office Equipment & Furnishings                                 10.0    128.0       12.0      12.0               162.0
Office Furnishings for Ag Inst.                                         72.0       12.0      12.0                96.0
Office Equipment for Ag Research Council                       10.0                                              10.0
Office Equipment for Ag. Support Centers                                56.0                                     56.0
Tralining Equipment           |                                25.0      73.8                                    98.8
Training Equipment for Ag Institutions                                   48.8                                    48.8
Training Equipment for Ag Support Centers                     25.0       25.0                                    50.0
=                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Lab and Field Equipment (incl. Irrig. Eq.)                      0.0    320.0    380.0    120.0          4.0    824.0
Rehabilitation                                                6 _   65.0    390.0    165.0   30.0    =O650.0
Refurbishment of Ag. Institutions (incl. Greenhouse)                   290.0    165.0        30.0               485.0
Refurbishment of Ag Research Council                          25.0                                               25.0
Refuirbishment of Ag Support Centers                          40.0    100.0                                     140.0
Training and TA                                               63.0    217.5    169.0    107.5          61.5    618.5
Trairning for Ag Institutions                                           79.5       79.5      69.0      39.0    267.0
TA ifor Agricultural Institutions                                       54.0       51.0      16.0               121.0
Training for Ag Research Council                              45.0        7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5      75.0
TA lFor Ag Research Council                                    18.0      38.0                                    56.0
Training for Ag Support Centers                                         22.5       15.0      15.0      15.0      67.5
TA lor Ag Support Centers                                                16.0      16.0                          32.0
Subtotal                                                     292.5   1858.8    757.0    285.5          73.5   3267.3
Operating Costs                _               ___            68.7   1293.6   1309.8   1317.2   1317.8   5307.1
Research Themes                                                        200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0    800.0
O&M - Ag Institutions                                         14.8    165.8    182.0    189.4    190.0    742.2
Research Literature & Library Publications                              49.8      49.8      49.8       49.8    199.2
Other - Ag Institutions (Imcl salaries)                                598.9    598.9    598.9    598.9   2395.4
Personnel - Ag Research Council                                8.8       35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0    148.8
Maintenance - Ag Research Council                              2.6       11.5      11.5      11.5      11.5      48.5
Other - Ag Research Council                                     2.0       8.1       8.1       8.1       8.1      34.4
Personnel - Ag Support Centers    __     _                     19.3     77.0       77.0      77.0      77.0    327.3
D&M Ag Support Centers                                         14.2    119.0    119.0    119.0        119.0    490.3
Other - Ag Support Centers                                      7.1      28.5      28.5      28.5      28.5    121.1
GRAND TOTAL                                                  361.2   3152.4   2066.8   1602.7   1391.3   8574.4
Non-IBank Financed                                              9.2    635.5    635.5    635.5    635.5   2551.0
WB Loan                                                      352.1   2517.0   1431.4    967.3    755.9   6023.5



Ilutdget TIable IA
Agricultural Researchl Council
Agricultural Research Sub-Coinponeiit, ARSP, Republic of Armenia
($000)
Units             1997             1998             1999             2000              2001             Totals
Items                  Type    Cost       #      Cost       #      Cost      #      Cost      #      Cost      #       Cost      #       Cost
Investnent
Vehicles                             each       10.00      I     10.00      I     10 00                                                          2      20.00
Computer                             each       3.00      2       6.00      1      3.00                    _                                     3        9 00
Printers                             each        I .00    2       2.00             1.00                                                          3       3.00
Photocopier                          each       3.00      1       3.00       1                              _                                            3.00
Phonie Fax                           each       0 50      1       0.50                                                                           1       0 50
Office Furnishings                  roomIl      2 00      5      10.00 _                                                  .                      5       10 00
Refurbishinig                       100111      5 00      5      25.00 _                                                                         5      25 00
Technical Assistance, Internatonal   D          16.00      i     16 00      2     32.00                                                          3      48 00
Technical Assistance, Local          pm          1.00     2       2.00      6      6 00                                                           8       8 00
Training & Seminars, International   pm          7.50     6      45.00      1      7 50       I     7 50   _          7.50      I       7.50     10      75.00
Subtotal Investment                                                 119.50            59 50             7.50             7.50              7.50            201.50
Recurrent from loan')
ARC Salaries                         /yr        35.00   0.25      8.75 _ 1        35 00   _        35.00      1      35.00      I      35.00   4.25     148.75
Vehicles M&O                         each         2.5   0.25      0.63      2      5.00      2      5.00      2       5.00      2       5.00      2      20 63
Equipment Maint                      total       5%    0.25       0.27 _           0.47       I     0 47      I       0.47      1       0.47   4.25       2.14
Communications                        /yr        3.00   0.25      0.75 ___         3.00       I     3.00      1       3.00      1       3.00   4.25      12.75
Supplies                              /yr        3 00   0.25      0.75      1      3 00       I     3.00      1       3.00      1       3.00   4.25      12.75
Subtotal Recurrentfrom loan                                           8.00            46.47           46.47             46.47             46.47            197.02
Recur-r-entfifrom GOA
37% payroll tax                          /yr        8.10   0.25      2.03   1          8.10      I      8.10      1      8 10      1       8.10   4 25      34.43
Suibtotal Recurrentfrom GOA                             I _          2.031             8 10             8.10 ]           8.10              8.10             34.43
Total                                                   I _        129.531           114.07            62.07   =        62.071            62.07            432.94
1) Recurrent costs are calculated for 3 months 1997.
Page 1



Budget lable Ili
'-esearchi Cenerxis*
Agricultur al Research Stib-Conipoiietit, ARSI, Republic of Armenia
($000)
Units            1997              1998              1999              2000       (2     001              Totals
Items                  Type    Cost       #      Cost      #       Cost      #       Cost      #      Cost      #       Cost      #        Cost
Investment
Vehicles                            each_      10.00                       6      60.00                                                           6        60 00
ComDputec                           eacih       3.00.                     12      36.00      6       18 00     4      12.00     2       6.00     24        72 00
Printers                            each        1.00                      12       12.00     6       6.00      4      4.00      2       2 00     24        24.00
Photocopier                         each        3 00                       61      18.00                                                          6         18 00
Phone Fax                           each        0.50 _                     6       3.00                                                           6         3.00
Furnishings                         room        2.00                      18      36.00      6      12.00      6     12.00                       30        60.00
Laboratory  / Equipment/            each       50.001                      4     200 00      6    300.00       2    100.00                       12       600.00
Field / Equipment/                   set       I S 00                      4      60.00      2      30 00                    _                    6        90.00
Irrigation / Equipment!              set       10.00                       31     30.00      2      20.00                                         5        50 00
Greenhouse / Refurbishmnent/        each       35.00                       I      35.00      I      35 00                                         2        70 00
Refuirbishiings, linternal          roomi       5 )00___                  1 8     90.00      6      30) 00     6     30.00       130                      I 50 00
Refurbishing, external              total     100.00                       I      100 00     1    100.00      _                                           200.00
Technical Assistance, Local          pm         1.00                       6       6.00      3       3.00                                         9          9.00
Subtotal Investment                                                                  6 _  686.00      554 00            158.00             8.00              1406.00
Recurrent
Vehicles M&O                        each         25                        6       15.00     6       15.00     6  (5,00         6      15.00      6         60 00
Equipment Maiitenance               total        5%                        1       19 75      i     39.05      1     45.45      I      45 85      4        150.10
Communications                       /yr        3 00   =      _                     3.00  3          3.00      1      3.00       1      3 00      4         12 00
Supplies                             /yr        3.00                 _              3.00      I      3.00      I      3.00       I      3.00      4         12.00
Moving costs                        each        2 50     6      15.00 so                      _                  __                               6         15 00
Subtotal Recurr ent                                                 15.00     _       40.75            6 60.05          66.451 _          66.85               249.10
Recurrent from GOA                    _                                                      .           .            . .
Salaries /scientists/                /yr        0 60                     I 50     90.00    ISC      90.00   ISO      90.00    150      90.00    150       360.00
Salaries /all other/                 /yr        0 48                     350      168 00   350      168.00   350    168 00    350      168 00    350       672.00
37% payrolltax                       /yr       95.46                        1      95.46      1      95.46      1     95.46      1      95.46      4       381.84
Subtotal Recurrentf iam GOA                                                          353.46           353.46           353.46            353.46              1413.84
Total                            .1_ 15.00                                          l080,21  _        967.51           577.91            428.31             3068.94
Page 2



Budget Table t C
Rescai rch Progranis
Agricultural Rcscarch Sub-Component, ARSP, lRepublic of Armenia
($000)
Units             1997              1998              1999              2000             2001              Totals
I_tems                 Type    Cost       #       Cost      #       Cost       #      Cost       #      Cost      #       Cost      #       Cost
Investment
TIheine /Equipment/                   set       2.00 _  _                  15       30.00     15      30.00     10     20.00      2       4.00     42       84.00
Technical Assistance, International  pm         16.00                       1       16 00      1      16.00      1     16.00 _       _              3       48 00
Tiaihing & Seminars, International   Dm          7.50                       4       30.00      4      30.00      4     30.001                      12       90.00
Subtojal Investmient                     .__                                           76.00             76.00            66.00   =           4.00 _          222.00
Recurrent                                                                                                             _
T hemes Support                      eachi       2 00                      100     200.00    100     200.00    100    200.00    100    200.00    400        800.00
Equipmiienlt Maintenance             total       5%                         1        1 50      1       3.00      1      4.00      I       4 20     4        12.70
Suibtotal Recurrent                                        =     _                    201 50            203.00           204.00             204.20             812.70
Total                                                                                 277.50            279.00 _         270.00            208.20            1034.70
Page 3



Budget T'able D
Agr-icultur-al Resea rch ,Total
Agr-icultural Researchi Sub-Component, ARSP, Republic of Armenia
($000)                                                                 ________
Uh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~plits                                jq997 <       - 1998              - 1999                 .20(0(-  2001                       -    Total$
1t~~~~iii ~ ~ ~   -D   A    costt                                 Cost    ___          Cost       #       Cos9t     #       Cos                     Cost
I ivcstiiient
Vehiicles                              cacti      100(        I      10 00       7       70 00      0            0      0       00                    08                    8()0
Comipulter                             each        3 00       2       6 00      13       39 00)     6        18 00       4      12 00      2       6 00        27           81 00I
Priniters                              eachi   -     00       2       2 00      12       i3 109     6         6.00      4       4.00       2       2 0(1       27           27 00
Plhotocopier                           cacti       3 001      I       3 00       6       18 00        I       0 0               00            I      ,0         7           21.00
Phione Fax                             eachi       0 501      1       0 50       6        3 00      0          .00      0        0( 00     1        .0          7            3 50
Office Ftirnishinigs                   rooim        2.001     5      tO00       18       36 010      6       12 00       6      12.00      0         .00       35           70 0(1
Laboratot)' /Equipmient/              cacti       50 00   0 00        0(1       4         200       6         300       2        100   0 00        00         1 2         600.001
Thcenic /Equipmient/                    set        2.00 ____                    I        3000)     15        30 00      10     20 00       2       4 00        42           84 00
Field /Eguipincicn/                     set        15 00   tI 00      0 001  4 00        60 00   2 00        30 00   0 00       0C 00        00I     M00        6           90).00
Irrigatioin /Eguipment/                 set       10 00   0.00        0 00   3 00        30 00   2 00,       20 0(1   0 00,     0.0 0O     00      0.00I        5           50 00
Greeinhouse /Refiirbishing/            eachi      35 00 (00      0 00 oo      1.00       35.00    1 00       35 00   0.00        0 00   (1.00      (100         2           70).00
Refurbishing, Internal                 roomn       5 001      5      25 (10     18       9(0         6       3(0 0(1    6      3(100       C)      (1.00       35          175.00
Refurbishings, External                total     100 (1(I  0(10       (1 00    1.00     1((((    I )0       1(10.00   0 00      ((10   (1.0        (1 0(1    0 00          200.00
Techinical Assistance, Initernational  ,pill       160(1      1      16 0(       3       48 00       1       16.0(0      1      16 (1(     0       0.00         6           96(1(1
Techniical Assistance, Local   . .piii              I 00      2       2 001    12        12(1(1      3        3 (1(      0       0((  ( 1           (1.00      17           17.00
Training & Seminiars, International     pil         7 51)     6      45 00       5       37 5(1      51      37 50       5,    37 5(1       1       7 501      22          165.0(0
.W,btoxa1Thv~~~i~~netit  -   -    -        119.5(1            82150   -            G37.~~~~561    .    2-3150 _____        ~'95"O"    ,   ,     1829 5
ARC Salaries                            Ir        35.00   0 25        8 75    1.0(1      35(1(1   I10(1      35 00    1 00     35 00    1 00      35 00      4.25          148 75
Vehiicles M&O                          eachi       2 5(1  (125        0.63       8       20 00(      8       20.00       8     20.0(1      8      20 00         8           8(1 63
Equipment Maint,total                      5%    0 25       0.27 I     1       21 72       1       42 52       1     49 92        1      50 52     4,25          164.94
Comimunications                         fyr         3 (10   0 25      0.75       I        6 1)0      1        6 00       I1      6.00      1        6 001   4 25            24.75
Supplies________________                 yL          3 (10   0 25       0,75      1        6 0(1      I         6.00      1       6.00       1       6.00     4 25           24.75
Moving costs                           eachi       2.501      6      15(10                                                                    ____              6,          15.0(1
Thiemies Support                       cacti        2 00                       IN__1((  2(1( 00    10(      200.00    100    2001,00    100    2(1( 00       401)          800 0(1
__  __  _ __  _  __  _ __  _  __ __  _    _ _  _   _ __  _26,14    .2&8.72                                    ,I9.~5z      ,      3hS9Z,             3
Recurrentfro;n GOA-
Salaries /scienitists/                                   ___r_0_60150                    90 0(1    150       9(1.0    150,    90.00    150        9(100       150          360.0(1
Salaries fall other!                          __r____48                        350      168 (1(    35(1      168 0(1   350    168 Ot)   35(1    168 0(1       350          672 00
3 7', pai. r-oll lav                                           11 I025    2(013 __ I       1(13 56      1       10)3 56     I    10)3 56,      1     1(03 56    4- 251        416.7
Sabiwa/ fteirjreM fiUrw,i (10                                             2.0~3 ___        361A6 ____          3 6 L.6            .16L 561           361.$6  i___             448x2
Page 4



Budlget Table 2
Ar-menian Agr-icultural Acadlemy (AAA)
($000)
VUuits            397              198              1909       __ flO                 20010             Totals
_____________________  Tz pe    Cos        #       Cost    #       Cast      It    Cost              C st      #      Cast       #       Cost
Investment
Minibus /AAAI                      cach       20 00                       1      2(0(00  _               -                                              20 00
Vchicles /Libran/                  cacl       I() (10 _                          I() I  1 00                                                    1          0(
Computcr /Libranr/                 each        3.00                       2       6(00     2        6.0(                                       4        12.0()
Printers /Librar)/                 cach         I ()(                     2       1 0(1    2        1.0(                                       4         2 00
Computer accessories /Library/      set          0 (                      I       I                                                             I_ _   1  ()00  1  I (0(
Phone Fax /Library/                each  ().5()              _                    () 50                            = = =                        1        0.5(
Furnishings /Library/              rooni       6.00 (                     6      36.00                                                          6       36.00
Computer /Publishing!               each        3 00                      2       6 00 (                                                        2         6.0(
Scanner /Publishing/               each        0 70(                      2       1 4(                                                          2         1 40
Printer /Publishing/               cach        2 010                      I       2 ()(1                                                        1         2.00
E-print 10()() /Publishing/        each      5( ()()                     I       (1 ()O  _               _                                             5().()(
Binder (Publishing/                cach       14 00                       I      14 (1(1               _                                        1        14 ()(
Cutiter /Publishing/                Cach        I 5()                     1       I 5()       _        _                   _                              1.50
Copier /Publishing/                 eacih      6 ()()                     1       6 (0(0                                                        i         6.()(
Laminator (Publishliiig/           cach        2 5(1                      I       2 50) =                 =                                     1         2.5(0
Refurbishliing /Library/           room        5 ()(                      6      3(0 00                                                         6       3(0 0(
Refurbishing /Pubhsling/           room         5.00                      7      35.0(0                                                         7        35.00
Technical Assistance. Inter.        p/ni       16 00                      1      16 ()0    1      16.00                                         2        32.00
Training & Seminars, Intcr          p/m         7.50(         _4                 3((.00(   4      3(0.00     4     3(.0(10    4      30.00     16       120.00
Training & Seminars. Local          p/m         1.5(1                     8      12.0(0    8      12.00      6      9 ()(1    6       9.((1    28        42.00(1
Sublbo1l 4Wvest#in_                                                                 280.90                  ____       39.OG ____        39.00  _          423.90
Recurrent
Internet Interpreter                /yr        600               _        1       6.00     1       6.00      1      6.00      1       6.00      4       24.0(0
Books & periodicals                 /yr       25 ((0                      1      25 (i(i    1     25.00      1     25 0(0     1      25.00       4     1((1.(00
Traiiiing Materials                 /yr         5(                        I       5 0(     I      5(         1      5 ()()    1       5.00  __4          20 (10
Vehicle M&O                        each        2 5(                       2       5 00(    2       5 00      2      5 0(1     2       5.00      2        20.00
Equipmient & maineinaice ,L        total        5%                        I _     2 2(1    1       2 601     1      2.6(1     1       2 60      4        10.(0
Equipment & maintenance ,P         total        5%                        1       4 20     1       4.20      1      4.20      1       4 20      4        16 80
Communication /Library/             /yr        6 00                       I       6 ()()    1      6 00      1      6 )(It    1       6 00      4       24 00
Comnimunication /Publishing/        (yxr        3()0              _       1       3.00    1        3.00      1      3.00      1       3.00      4        12 ()()
Supplies /Library/                  /yr         3 (1                      1       3 (1(    1       3 0(1     1      3 (1(     1       3 (0  ___ 4 1      12 (00
Supplies /Pubishliuig               /yr        5 (((                      I       5 ()()    1      5.00      1      5 ()(I    1       5 ()(  _  4        2(1 (1(1
Iinstallation /Publishiiig/         /Xr   . 5 ((                                  5 ((1      __                    ..                   ...... I          5 ) (
Subioial Recurk-ent                                                                  69. 40          64.80             64.80             64,80             263.0
Tut~I .,  -                             . -   -         -       -        ......D .............               ...                                        =N 770
Page 5



Budget Table 3
AGROG ITASPURE
($000)
U Unils          1997             1998            1999           2000             2001             l'otals
Items                 Type    Cost    #t        Cost      #      Cost    #    Cost        #     Cost      #       Cost     #      Cost
Investment
Minibus                            each       20 00  =                          20.00 =                                                3         20.00
Vehicles                           eachl       5.00                     32    160.00                  -                                  32     160.00
Computers                          each        3.00                       I      3 00                                                     I       3.00
Printei s                          each        I.00                       I      1.00 _                            _                      I       1.00
Phone Fax                          each        0.50                   -          0.50 _1                                                          0.50
Modein                             eachi       0.30              I_              0.30                  - __                                       0.30
Photocopiers                       each        3 00           C                  3.00                 -        _                                  3.00
Technical Assistance, International  pm       16.00                       1     16.00   1      16.00                                      2      32.00
Subtotal hivestinewt_                                                             203.80          16.00                _                           219.80
Recurrent from loan
Vehicle M & 0                      each        2.00                     33      66.00  33     66.00    33      66.00     33     66.00   33    264.00
Equipment Maintenance              total        5%                        I      0 39   I      0.39      1      0.39      1      0.39    4        1.56
Coniliunications                    /yr        3 00  1____             _ I       3.00   i      3 00      I      3.00      1       3.00    4      12.00
Sutblotal Rec fromn loan                _                                          69.39 _        69.39           69.39             69.39          277.56
Recurrent from GOA                                                                   I__
Salaries                            /yr      105.00                       1    105.00   i    105 00       I    105.00     1    105.00    4    420.00
37% payroll tax                     /yr       38.80                       I    38.80   I      38.80      1 I    38.80     1      38.80    4     155.20
Trips                               /yr        9.00   _                          9.00   I       9.00     1      9.00      I       9.00    4      36.00
Public utilities                    fyr        8 70   _                   I      8.70   I       8.70     I      8.70      I       8.70    4      34.80
Repair & maint. of premises         /yr       12.00                       i     12.00   1      12.00     1     12.00      1      12.00    4      48 00
Other office expenditures           Iyr        6 70   _                   1      6.70   1       6.70     1      6.70      I       6.70    4      26.80
Demonstrations & exibitions         Iyr        9.70                   -          9.70   1      9 70      1      9.70      1       9.70    4      38.80
Subtotal Rec. fronm GOA  ___                                                      189.90         189.90          189.90            189 90          759.60
Totals                                                                     ..   463.09           275.29          259.29            259.29  -      1256.96
Page 6



Budget T'able 4
AGROPIIESS
($000)
___ __ ___ __Unit-   19'7 1f99-                                    1999               211011              20011               Tatals
__ _ _ __   _*           Type       t<sst        #     f  tts    t # ost  #15t 0    'Cost                                             Cost        #       Cost
Vehicles                                each        10 I)_                           .               - .                -                               _                 10((
IPhone Fax                             CelCh         ( 50 _                                 (3 53                                          -                               0 5(
Modeni                                  each         ( 330 _                                0 330         _                                                                0 3(
Video Cassette Recorder [lVI            ceach        8 20                           2      16 40                                          -                       2        16IG0
Video Cassette Player /TV!              each         7 2(0 _                                7 20                                                                   1       7 20
Editing Contoller /FV/                  each         5 50   _                  _            5 5(    -    _              -                                                   5 50
Production Mixer TrV/                   caehi        7 40   -                       1       7 4(                                          -                                  7 4
Colour Video Monitor frv/               eaci         1 40                           3       4 20                                                                  3         4 20
Camera [IVl                             each         1 80                           I        I 80                                                                  1        I 8C
Videotape Recorder frV/                 eacli        0 30                           I       0 3(0                                                                  1        0 30
Computer Comniodor frV/                 eachi        1 20                           I        1 2(                                                                  1        1 20
Computer Commoidor 4000/FV/             eacih        4 5(3 _                                4 5( .                                                                 I        4 5f
l'iipod [IV/                           ecl           (3l 30 30()                            0 3(0                                                                 1        0 3(
Coniputer /Publishing/                 each          3 00                           1       3 ((                                        _                         1        3(30
Lazer lrinter /Publishing/              each         4 00                           1       4 00                                                                   1        4 ()
Ryzograph /Pubhshing/                   each        30 00                           1      30 0((                                                                  I 1     30 (0
I raining & Seminars, Intemational      p/m          7 50                           1       7 50        1      7 50,                                              2        15 (0
&~ bi U lV  s_l                         _   __ __ _        _ __  _ _               10  A                 5 7           _  _   _          _ __  _ _          .1.   _-
Recurrent from loan
Vehicle M & 0                           each         2 5(                           1        2 5(               2 50       1       2 50   3    1       2 5(        1       1000
Equipment Mainteniance                  total         5'%,,                         1       4 3(0               4 30       1       4 30        1       4 3(        4       17 20
Ciommunications for intemet              /yr           4 ()                         1        4 t)0      I       4 00       1       4 00        1       4 00        4       16 0(3
Supplies                                 /yr          4 0                           1       400         I       4 00       I       4 00        1       4 (0        4       16 0(
Subscription "Agroscience"              each        0 009                         600       5 40    600         5 40    600        5 40    600         5.40    600         21 60
Subscription "NorGhyukh"                each        0 012                        120(0      14 40   120((      14 40   1200       14 40   1200         14 40   1200        57 60
Si&41sol rte,(% f,i ktm          =_     __                             _                        4.60                4;60                  0       =4.1                        M 138O4
Recunent from GOA                                                =
Salaries                                 /yr        13 20                           1       13 20(      1      13 20       1      13 20        1       13 20       4       52 80
37% payroll tax                          /yr         4    _90                    -490490 49             I       4 90       I       490                 4 9(        4       19 60
I rips                                  /vr          3 3(                           1       3 3(0              3 30                3 33(3     I        3 3(       4        13 20
IPublic utilities                       /yi          3 0(                           1       3 (0        I       3 00       I       3 00        1       3 00        4       12 00
Printinig costs                          /yr        26 5(                           1      26 50        I     26 5(1       I      26 50        1      26 50        4      1(06 0()
Radio etlher                             _yr         1 3(                           I        1 3(0              1 30       1       130         1        130        4        5 20
TV ether                                 /yr         3 30 C                         I       3 30        1       3 30       1       3 30        1       3 30        4       13 20
&eblof-d  Re   fi~mGOA_                  _  _  _ _ __ __ _ _ _                            55.50 (     _        55     _ _ 55       . 055  50                  _ _       222.00
2nKnA . . ... z -f <.2,                 Pa    7,
Page 7



Budget Table 5
AGRICULTURAL SUIPPOIRT CENTERS
($000)
__________ _ _ -InUnits     1997             1998             1999            2000             2001             Totals
Items                 Type    Cost       #      Cost      #      Cost  |          Cos(     #      Cost       #      Cost      #      Cost
lnvestinent
Vehicles                            eachl     10.00      5     50.00    15    150.00 _                                   _                  20    200 00
Computers                          each       3.00      7     21.00    10      30 00                                                        17      51.00
Printers')                          each       1.00      7      7.00    10      10.00                                                        17      17 00
Portable Computers                  each       4.00      5     20.00      5     20.00                                    -                   10      40.00
Phone Fax                           each       0.50      5      2.50      5      2,50                   _             _                      10       5.00
Modem                               each       0.30      5       1.50     5      1.50                                                        10       3.00
Photocopiers)                       each       3.00      2      6.00      5     15.00                                                         7      21.00
Training /Equipment/                set        5.00     5      25.00     5      25.00                                                       10      50.00
Office furnishing')                room        2.00                      28     56.00                                                        28      56.00
Refurbishingt)                     room        5.00      8     40.00    20    100 00                                                         28     140.00
Trechinical Assistance, International  pm     16.00                       I     16.00      1    16.00                                         2      32.00
Training& Seminars, Local           pmi        1.50                      15     22.50     10    15.00     10      15.00     10     15.00    45       67.50
Subtotal Investment                                               173.00          448.50            31.00            15.00            15.00            682.50
Recurrent from loan 2)
ASC Salaries                        /yr       77.00   0.25      19.25     I     77.00 (          77.00     1    77.00        1     77.00   4.25     327.25
Vehicle M & O                       each        2.5   1.25      3.13    20      50.00     20    50.00    20      50.00     20      50.00     20     203.13
Equipment Maintenance               total       5%   0.25        1.04     1      9.04      I      9.04     I      9.04       1      9.04   4.25      37.19
Communications for internet          /yr      30.00   0.25      7.50      i    30.00       1    30.00      1    30.00        1     30.00   4.25     127.50
Supplies                             /yr      10.00   0.25      2.50      1     10 00      I    10.00      I      10.00      I     10.00   4.25      42.50
Public utilities                    /yr       20.00                       1    20.00 (          20.00 .          20.00       1     20.00      4      80 00
Subtotal Rec. firom loan                                           33.41           196.04          196.04           196.04           196.04            817.56
Recurrent from GOA                                                            I                I                                              _
37% payroll tax2)                   /yr       28.49   0.25      7.12      1     28.49      1    28.49      1    28.49        1     28.49   4.25     121.08
Subtotal Rec. from GOA_                                             7.12           28.49            28.49           28.491            28.49            121.08
Totals                                                           213.54           673.03           255.53          239.53            239.53 _____    1621.15
I) IThc 3 ASC have already received 3 computers, 3 prinlters, 3 photocopiers and iefurbishinig 12 rooms througli USDA Marketing Advisoiy Office Project.
2) Recurrent costs are calculated for 3 months 1997
Page 8



Table 6
Preliminary Budget Summary by Sub-Component
Agricultural Institutions Component, ARSP
($000)
Component                    1997     1998     1999      2000     2001 Total
1 Agricultural Research (ARC)
Investment                              119.50   821.50   637.50   231.50    19.50  1829.50
Recurrent                                26 14   288.72   309.52   316.92   317 52  1258 82
Sub-tofal                               145.64  1110.22   947 02   548 42   337 02  3088 32
Government Cost                           2 03   361 56   361.56   361.56   361.56  1448.27
Total                                   147.67  1471 78  1308.58   909.98   698.58  4536 58
2 Agricultural Education (Academy)
Investment                                0 00   280 90    65.00    39 00    39.00   423 90
Recurrent                                 0.00    69.40    64 80    64 80    64 80   263 80
Sub-total                                 0 00   350 30   129 80   103 80   103 80   687 70
Government Cost                           0 00   0 00      0 00     0 00     0 00        0.00
Total                                   0.00      350.30   129.80   103.80   103 80   687.70
3 Agricultural Extension (Agrogitaspure)
Investment                                0 00   203 80    16 00   0 00      0 00     219.80
Recurrent                                 0 00    69 39    69 39    69 39    69 39   277 56
Sub-total                                 0 00   273 19    85 39    t9 39    69.39   497 36
Government Cost                           0.00   189.90   189.90   189.90   189.90   759.60
Total                                     0.00   463.09   275.29   259.29   259.29  1256 96
4 Agricultural Information (Ag roPress)                   _
Investment                                0.00   104.10      7.50   0 00     0.00      111.60
Recurrent                                 0.00    34 60    34 60    34.60    34.60   138 40
Sub-total                                 0.00   138.70    42 10    34.60    34 60   250.00
Government                                0.00O   55.50    55 50    55.50    55 50   222.00
Total                                     0 00   194.20    97.60    90 10    90.10   472.00
5 Technical Services (Agr. Support Centers)
Investment                              173 00   448 50    31.00    15 00    15 00   682 50
Recurrent                                33 41   196 04   196.04  , 196.04   196 04   817 56
Sub-total                               206.41   644 54   227 04   211 04   211.04  1500.06
Government                                7 12    28 49    28.49    28.49    28 49   121 08
Total                                   213.54   673.03   255.53   239.53   239.53  1621.15
Total for Institution Component                    _
Investment                              292 50  1858 80   757 00   285 50    73 50  3267 30
Recurrent                                59 56   658.15   674.35   681 75   682 35  2756.14
Sub-total                   '           352 06  2516 95  1431 35   967.25   755 85  6023.44
Government                                9 15   635.45   635 45   635 45   635 45  2550 95
Grand Total                             361.20  3152.40  2066 80  1602.70  1391 30  8574.39
Preliminary Budget, ARSP
20-Jun-97
Page 9



Table 7
Preliminary Budget Summary by Cost Item
Agricultural Institutions Component, ARSP
COST ITEM                                7|     1997     19981    19991   20001    2001|Total
1 0 INVESTMENT COSTS
1 1 Vehicles                                  60.00   440 00      0.00     0 00     0.00   500 00
12 Computers/Printers                         56 00   123.00    31.00    16.00      8 00   234.00
1 3 Office Equipment                          13 50    46 10      0.00     0 00     0.00    59.60
1 4 Training Equipment                        25.00    73.80      0.00     0.00     0.00    98.80
1 5 Publishing Equipment                       0 00   120.40      0.00     0 00     0 00   120_40
1 6 Laboratory Equipment                       0 00   230 00   330.00   120 00      4 00   684.00
1 7Field Equipment                             0 00    60.00    30 00      0.00     0 00    90.00
1 8 Irrigation Equipment                       0.00    30.00    20.00      0.00     0 00    50 00
1 9 Furnishings                               10.00   128 00    12.00    12.00      0.00   162.00
1 10 Greenhouse Refurbishing                    0.00    35.00    35.00      0 00     0 00    70 00
111 Refurbishing - Internal                    65 00   255.00    30 00    30.00      0 00   380.00
112 Refurbishing - External                     0 00   100.00   100.00      0.00     0 00   200 00
1 13 Technical Assistance - International      16.00    96 00    64.00    16.00      0 00   192 00
1 14 Technical Assistance - Local               2.00    12 00      3.00     0.00     0.00    17 00
1 15 Training - International                  45.00    75.00    75 00    67.50    37 50   300 00
1 16 Training - Local                           0.00    34 50    27.00    24 00    24 00   109.50
l Sub-total Investment                     292 50  1858 80   757.00   285.50    73.50  3267 30
2 0 RECURRENT COSTS            L      _                                                   __L_
21 Salaries                                   2800   11800   118.00   11800   118.00   50000
2 2 Vehicle M&O                                3 75   143.50   143.50   143 50   143 50   577 75
2 3 Equipment Maintenance (5%)                 1.31    41.85    63.05    70 45    71.05   247.69
2 4 Communications                             825    52.00    52.00    52.00    5200   21625
2 5 Supplies                                   3 25    28.00    28.00    28 00    28 00   115.25
2 6 Moving and Installation                   15.00      5.00     0.00     0 00     0 00    20 00
2 7 Subscriptions, Books, and Training Materials  0 00    49.80    49.80    49 80    49 80   199 20
2 8 PLiblic Utilities                          0.00    20.00    20.00    20 00    20.00    80 00
2 9 Themes Support                             0 00   200 00   200.00   200.00   200 00   800 00
Sub-total Recurrent                             59.56   658.15   674 35   681.75   682 35  2756 14
TOTAL LOAN                                     352.06  2516.95  1431.35   967.25   755.85  6023 44
3 0 GOVERNMENT COSTS
3 1 Salaries                                   0 00   376.20   376 20   376.20   376.20  1504 80
32 Payroll Tax 37%                             9.15   175 75   175.75   175.75   175 75   712 15
3 3 Trips (per diem)                           0.00    12 30    12.30    12.30    12 30    49 20
3 4 Public Utilities                           0 00    11.70    11.70    11 70    11.70    46.80
3 5 Repair/Maintenance of Premises             0 00    12 00    12.00    12 00    12 00    48 00
3 6 Other Office Expenditures                  0.00      6.70     6.70     6 70     6.70    26 80
3 7 Dernonstration                             0.00      9.70     9.70     9.70     9.70    38 80
38 Priniting Costs                             0.00    26.50    26.50    26.50    26.50   106 00
3 9 Radio and TV Ether                          0.00     4.60     4.60     4.60     4 60    18 40
TOTAL GOVERNMENT COSTS                           9 15   635.45   635.45   635.45   635.45  2550.95
GRAND TOTAL                                    361.20  3152.40  2066.80  1602.70  1391.30  8574.39
Page 10



Table 8
Preliminary Compressed Budget Summary by Cost Item
Agricultural Institutions Component, ARSP
COST ITEM                                         1997     1998    1999    2000    2001 Total
1 0| INVESTMENT COSTS                                                I
1 1 Vehicles                                  60.00   440.00      0.00    0.00     0 00   500 00
1 2 Office Equipment                          69 50   169 10   31 00    16 00      8 00   293 60
1 3 Training Equipment                        25 00    73.80     0.00     0 00     0 00    98 80
1 4 Publishing Equipment                        0 00   120 40     0 00    0.00     0.00    120 40
1 5 Research Equipment                          0.00   320.00   380 00   120.00    4 00   824.00
1 6 Furnishings                                10.00   128.00    12.00    12.00    0 00   162 00
1 7 Refurbishing                              65.00   390.00   165.00    30.00     0 00   650 00
1 8 Technical Assistance                       18.00   108.00    67.00    16.00    0 00   209 00
1 9 Training                                  45.00   109 50   102 00   91 50   61 50   409 50
Sub-total Investment                            292.50  1858.80   757.00  285.50    73.50  3267 30
2 0 RECURRENT COSTS                        ,                    _                          _
21 Personnel                                   28.00   118.00   118.00   118.00   11800    50000
2 2 Operation and Maintenance                  31.56   290.35   306.55   313.95   314 55  1256.94
2 3 Subscriptions, Books, and Training Materials  0.00    49.80    49 80   49.80    49 80   199 20
2.4 Research Themes                             0.00   200.00   200.00  200 00  200 00   800 00
Sub-total Recurrent                              59.56   658.15   674.35  681.75   682 35  2756 14
TOTAL LOAN                                      352.06  2516 95  1431.35   967.25   755 85  6023 44
3 0 GOVERNMENT COSTS
3 1 Personnel                                   0 00   376 20   376 20  376.20   376 20   1504 80
3 2 Other                                       9.15   259.25   259.25  259.25   259.25   1046 15
TOTAL GOVERNMENT COSTS                            9.15   635.45   635.45  635.45   635 45  2550.95
GRAND TOTAL                                     361.20  3152.40  2066.80 1602.70  1391 30  8574.39
Page 11






Annex E
Agribusiness Development Center
1.    Currently, enterprises in the agribusiness sector are deficient in knowledge about
management techniques in a market environment. They experience difficulties in qualifying for
loans in large part because they are not capable of providing financial institutions with rigorously
developed plans for the restructuring of their enterprises and the financial requirements regarding
potential investments. Moreover, the management and post-privatization advisory services
available to them are typically through foreign consultants who often have very little knowledge
of the enviromnent which Armenian agribusiness faces. For these reasons, the Ministry of
Agriculture places great emphasis on establishing an Agribusiness Development Center (ADC)
to assist in the provision of training and consulting services to the agribusiness sector. The
functions of the ADC will be:
a) to provide privatized agribusiness enterprises (mainly agro-processing and large commercial
farms) with training on the fundamentals of management, finance, and enterprise restructuring;
b) to provide them with consultations on financial and strategic management and marketing, as
well as on-the-job training in Western enterprises of similar production profiles; and,
c) to help these enterprises in developing feasibility studies and business plans for applying to
financial institutions (including those participating under the Enterprise Development Project
line of credit) for loans to finance investments aimed at post-privatization restructuring;
2.    The ADC is being set up at the facilities of the AgroMarketing enterprise and will
include approximate 15 trainers and business plan specialists. The AgroMarketing enterprise
was founded in September 1996 as a consultancy center for marketing information. It focuses
on executing market studies for agricultural and agro-industry products and establishing links
with similar structures in other countries to develop cooperation in terms of marketing and
information exchange. Special attention is paid to gathering information on product
specifications, purchase and outlet prices, import and export opportunities, technical break-
throughs in processing technology, and exhibition and fairs organized in the other countries. The
AgroMarketing enterprise will help the ADC in organizing local training courses for the ADC
trainers and support the training activities with practical information to be used in consultation
with the agribusiness enterprise management personnel to be trained.
3.    The scope of training activities to be offered by the ADC will cover the following:
a) Management Consulting  - Business Strategy
Marketing and Sales Management
Strategy Design and Development
Economic and Business Environment
Feasibility Studies
b) Financial management  - Performance and Financial Planning
Management Reporting
Assessment of prospective purchasers



Annex E
Page 2 of 3
c) Post-Privatization   -  Enterprise restructuring (operational and financial appraisal,
debt restructuring and financial planning, organizational design,
strategic planning, market and product evaluation)
Transaction implementation (enterprise valuation, identification
of and negotiation with prospective investors)
Post- privatization services ( corporate and business strategy,
mergers, acquisitions and joint- venture, marketing strategy, cost
reduction strategy, distribution and logistics.
4.    During the project period, the ADC's staff will include the component coordinator, 12
specialists involved in both business plan writing and training, the office manager, an
accountant, and office support staff. Under support though the PPF, the specialists (all
graduates of the MBA Program at the American University of Arrnenia) are undergoing
advanced training courses in business plan writing and later will receive on-the-job training
organized by the Armenian Business Support Center (ABSC). Currently, a grant is being
negotiated with the UK Know How Fund for further advanced training by foreign management
and agribusiness specialists. (Their terms of reference follow this component description).
5.    The estimated cost for establishing and operating the ADC for 4 years includes about
70% for equipment and operational costs (including equipment, furniture, supplies, staff
remuneration) and 30% (roughly $US 330,000) for the local training of the trainers and
international on-the-job training of agribusiness management personnel.
Cost Estimate for the Agribusiness Development Center - US$ 1,227,600
The details of the cost break-down are presented in Annex E Summary Table.



Annex E
Page 3 of 3
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training
For Agri-Business Development Center Component
Training and seminars for management of agro-processing enterprises.
Position 1. Specialist in financial management - Management consultant with experience in
financial management of privatized enterprises in transition economies.
Purpose - to teach corporate finance and financial management of privatized agro-processing
enterprises in transition economies. Standard financial management techniques should be taught
in a practical, intuitive way to analyze the financing, capital structure, investment and dividend
decisions of the enterprise with an attention to specific problems of transition economies.
Time frame - one month in early 1998
Position 2. Marketing specialist - Management Consultant with experience in teaching market
demand estimation techniques in agriculture.
Purpose: to teach marketing in terms of product, price, place and promotion and to illustrate
market demand estimation techniques for implementation with the management of agro-
processing enterprises.
Time frame - one month in early 1998
Position 3. Restructuring specialist - Management Consultant with experience in restructuring
of agro-processing enterprises in Central and Eastern Europe and/or the FSU..
Purpose: to teach the management of enterprises to effectively analyze their operations and
develop restructuring plans. The lecture component should involve a range of issues such as
financial analysis, enterprise valuation, the basis of competitive advantage, and human resources
management. Interactive case studies to be included based on studies of Central and Eastern
European and/or FSU enterprise restructuring.
Time frame - one month in mid 1998
Position 4. Strategic planing specialist - Management Consultant with experience in strategic
planing for agro-processing enterprises.
Purpose: to teach the analysis of a business's strategic position and formulation of effective
strategies, involving business simulations to allow participants to manage strategically in "live"
competitive market situations.
Time frame - one month in mid 1998
Position 5. Food Technology/packaging Specialist - experienced food technology specialist
from a developed country with international experience.
Purpose: to provide advisory services on food technology/packaging to agro-processing
enterprises.
Time frame - one month in mid 1998



Annex E - Summary Table
Agro-Business Development Center Component       PPF      Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
Vehicles                                                        40.0                                   40.0
Computer Equipment                                    22.0      14.2                                   36.2
Office Furniture                                       3.0      17.0                                   20.0
Training Equipment                                     3.0       3.0                                    6.0
Training for Trainers & Study Tours                   40.0    244.0      88.0                         372.0
Training and Business Plans by ADC                              40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0    160.0
Operation and Maintenance                             15.3    101.5    111.1    111.1    116.1    455.1
Equipment Maintenance                                0.7      5.1       5.1       5.1       5.1      21.1
Salaries                                            5.0      88.4      93.4      93.4     93.4    373.7
Other Op. and Maintenance                           9.6       8.0      12.6      12.6     17.6      60.3
Taxes                                                  1.9      32.7     34.6      34.6      34.6    138.3
JGRAND TOTAL __85.2    492.4    273.7    185.7    190.7   1227.6



Annex F - Armenia: Agricultural Reform Support Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
______________ _____________Section   1:, Procurement Review                       _  _ _  _ _  _    _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _
Element (Goods/Works)                ICB                 NCB                IS                 NS               Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds     Works: n.a         Works:<$200,000    Works: n.a.         Works: n.a.      Minor Works: <$ 50,000
Goods:>$200,000    Goods: n.a.        Goods: <$200,000    Goods: n.a.     Refurbishment
Technical          Technical Services:                    Technical       Technical Services: n.a.
Services:>$200,000   <$200,000                            Services: n.a.  No objection on budget
for recurrent costs
2. Prior Review                      all                 first two for each    first            n.a.            yes
procurement
category
Element (Consultant Services)        QCBS                QBS                Sole Sourcing -     Least Cost      Other methods
none
3. Procurement method thresholds     >$200,000           <$200,000          n.a.                <$100,000       individual
4. Prior Review                      yes                 yes                yes                 yes             yes (>$50,000)
5. Ex-post Review                    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during periodic
supervision missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
I~~~~~~~ ...   ..        .. .... .. ..
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirenments
6. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the Project Implementation Unit.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: 8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Country Procurement Strategy Paper was issued May 1997.                              actions of the first year ready by negotiations?  No
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
9. Estimated date of Project      10. Estimated date of        I 1. Indicate if contracts are subject  12. Domestic  13. Domestic
Launch Workshop: April 1998       General Procurement Notice  to mandatory SPN in Development  Preference for    Preference for
publication: January 1998    Business:     No                  Goods/Works:    Consultant
No/No             Services: No
14. Retroactive financing    No                                                    |15. Advanced Procurement    No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
TORs for all consultant service contracts will be submitted for no-objections by the Bank. In addition, the PIU will develop a monitoring/reporting system for
timely implementation of training.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:                   Division:             Ext.
Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst,                                               ECSRE           x32182
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team.



Procurement Plan: Republic of Arnenia - Agriculture Reforn Support Project
(expressed in US$'000)
Descnption                    Type    No of   Estimated        Procurement        Document        Invitation         Contract          Contract
contracts   cMst           method          preparation       to bid             signing          completion
Equipment                                                                  10     2167.9
Vehicles                                                       G            2       571.3         ICB                 Mar-98             May-98    Aug-98, Dec-98  Feb-99 to Jun-99
Vehides for Agrobusiness Dev. Center                                  44.8
Vehicles for Agricultural Institutions                               313 6
Vehicles for Agricuftural Research Council                            11.2
Vehides fbr Agricultural Support Centers                             168.0
Vehides for P1IU                                                      33.6
Computer Equipment                                             G            2      419.7          ICB                 Apr-98             Jun-98   Sep-98 to Mar-00           Sep-00
Computer Equipment for Agribusiness Dev. Center                       15.9
Computer Equipment for Agricultural Institutions                     292.9
Computer Equipment for Agricultural Research Council                   4.5
Computer Equipment for Agricultural Support Centers                   88.5
Computer Equipment for PIU                                            17.9
Office Furnishings and Equipment                               G            4       162.2          IS                 Apr-98             Jun-98   Aug-98 to Mar40             Sep.00
Office Fumiture for Agribusiness Dev. Center                          19 0
Office Fumishings for Ag. Institutions                               107.5
Office Fumishings for Agricultural Support Centers                    24.4
Office Fumishings for PIU                                             11.2
Training Equipment                                             G            1        91.6          IS                Aug-98              Sep-98            Sep-98             Jan-99
Training Equipment for Agribusiness Dev. Center                        3 4
Training Equipment for Agricultural Institutions                      54.7
Training Equipment for Agricultural Support Centers                   28 0
Training Equipment for PIU                                             5.6
Other Equipment                                                G             1      923.0         ICB                Aug-98              Oct-98             Mar-99            Jun-99
Laboratory Equipment and Field Equipment for Ag. Institutions  1     923 0
Rehabilitation - Refurbishment                                 SW           5       666.5       NCB, MW               Nov-97             Dec-97   Jan-98 to Oct-99            Mar-00
Refurbishment of Research Institutions                       3       543 3 NCB (Slice and Package)    May-98 Aug-98 to Aug 99       Oct-98 to Oct-99           Mar-00
Refurbishment of Agricultural Support Centers                 1      112.0          MW                 Nov-97             Dec-97       Jan to Oct-98           Mar-99
Offmce Refurbishment for PIU                                  I       11 2          MW                 Feb-98             Mar-98             Apr-98            Jun-98
Technical Services                                             TS           6       365.8         NCB                 Mar-98    Apr-98 to May-01   May-98 to Aug41            Dec-01
Vehicle Maintenance Contracts                                 3      210 9         NCB                 Feb-99             Mar-99             Apr-99            Apr-02
Computer Equipment Maintenance Contracts                     3       154 9         NCB                 Mar-99             Apr-99            May-99             Apr-02
Line of Credit                                                                    6850.0           CP
Credits for Onlending                            -                 4850.0           CP
Domestically Raised Onlending Funds              -                  2000.0         NBF



Training and Technical Assistance                           CFICI        11    1120.2   QCBS. OBS, LC, I          Nov-97   Dec-97 to May-99   Jan-98 to Mar-00          Jun-01
Training for Agnbusrness Dev. Center Personnel  CF          3     371 9          QBS               Nov-97             Dec-97      Jan-98-Mar-00           Jun-01
Local Training for Agncultural Institutions   CF            2     299.1          QBS               May-98             Aug-98             Oct-98           Jun-01
Technical Assistance for Agricultural lnstitutions  CF      1      135 5         QBS               May-98             Aug-98             Oct-98           Jun-00
Local Training for Agnaultural Research Council  CI         1       33 6          I                Nov-97             Dec-97            Feb-98            Jun401
Technical Assistance for Ag. Research Council  Cl           1       42 6          I                 Nov-97            Dec-97            Feb-98            Sep-99
Local Training for Agricultural Support Centers  CF         1       75 6         LC                May-98             Aug-98             Oct-98           Jun-01
Technical Assistance for Ag. Support Centers   Cl           1       35 8          I                May-98             Aug-98             Oct-98           Jun-99
Training and Technical Assistance for PIU     CF            1      126 0        QCBS               May-98             Aug-98             Oct-98           Jun-99
Proiect Implementation                                                   92    1829.4
Consultants for Business Plans by Agnbus Dev. Ctr    Cl    15      390.6           I                Feb-98             Mar-98            Apr-98           Apr-02
Other - Agnbusiness Development Center                             154.9         NBF
Consultants - Agricultural Research Council    Cl           9      144.2           I                Feb-98             Mar-98            Apr-98           Apr-02
Other - Agriculural Research Council                                38.6         NBF
Consulants - Agricultural Support Centers      Cl          60      344 2           I                Feb-98             Mar-98   Apr-98 to Apr-00          Apr-02
Other- Agricultural Support Centers                                135.6         NBF
Consultants - PIU                              Cl           8      453 5           I                Feb-98             Mar-98            Apr-98           Sep-02
Other- PIU                                                         167 8         NBF
Orerating Cstk                                                                  5315.2
Operation and Consumables - Agnbusiness Dev. Ctr.                  246 8
Consumables - Agricultural Research Centers                        896.1
Operation and Consumables - Agricutural Institutions               654 4
Recurrent Costs - Research Literature and Library Publications     223 1
Other - Agricultural Institutions                                 2714 8         NBF
Consumables - Agricultural Research Council                         54.3
Operation and Consumables - Agricultural Support Centers           462 1
Consumables - PIU                                                   63 7
GRAND TOTAL                                                                    18314.9



PPF Financed                                                                       1500.0
Total Vehicles                                                  G           11      110.0          IS                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Vehicles for PIU                                                      10 0
Vehicles for Agrcultural Research Council                             10 0
Vehicles for Agricultural Support Centers                             50.0
Vehicles for Property Registration                                    40 0
Computer Equipment                                              G            1      133.0          IS                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Computer Equipment for Agrobusiness Dev Center                        22 0
Computer Equipment for Agncultural Research Council                   11 5
Computer Equipment for Agncultural Support Centers                    58 0
Computer Equipment for Property Registration                          41.5
Other Equipment                                                 G            3      106.0          IS                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Training Equipment for Ag. Dev Center                                  3 0
Training Sets for Ag Support Centers                                  25.0
Total Stations for Property Registration Component                    48.0
Plan Storage and Office Eq. for Prop Registration                     30.0
Office Fumishings                                               G            1       67.2          IS                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Fumishings for Agribusiness Development Center                         3 0
Fumishings for Agricultural Research Council                          10 0
Fumishings for-Agricultural Support Centers                           34.2
Fumishings for Property Registration                                  20.0
Refurbishment of Facilities                                    SW            2       65.0          MW                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Refurbishment of Ag Research Council                          1       25 0
Refurbishment of Agricultural Support Centers                 1       40.0
Training and Technical Assistance                             CF/CI          6      191.0         I, LC
Training for Agribusiness Dev Center Staff      Cl            2       400            1                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Training for Agricultural Research Council Staff  Cl          1       45.0           1                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Training for Property Registration Component    CI            1       30 0           1                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Technical Assistance for Property Registration  CF            1       58 0          LC                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Technical Assistance for Ag Research Council    Cl            1       18 0           1                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Credit Line                                                                         650.0          CP
Incremental PIU Costs                                                                76.4
Maintenance and Other Recurrent Costs                                               101.4
Tiy= G -goods, CF - consulting firms; Cl - individual consultants; TS- technical services
Procurement Method: ICB - intemational competitive bidding; NCB - national competitive bidding; IS - intemational shopping;
NS - national shopping; MW - minor works; IC - individual consultants; QBS - consultants quality based, QCBS - quality and cost based selection;



Description                  Type    No. of   Estimated      Procurement        Document        Invitation         Contract          Contract
contracts    cost          method          preparation       to bid            signing         completion
;:oidnmAnI                                                               10.0    2167.9
Vehicles                                                          G        2      571.3          ICB                Mar-98             May-98    Aug-98, Dec-98  Feb-98 to Mar-99
Computer Equipment                                                G        2      419.7          ICB                Apr-98             Jun-98   Sep-98 to Mar-00           Sep-00
Office Fumishings and Equipment                                   G        4      162.2           IS                Apr-98             Jun-98   Aug-98 to Mar400           Sep40
Training Equipment                                                G        1       91.6          IS                 Aug-98             Sep-98            Sep-98            Jan-99
Other Equipment                                                   G        1      923.0          ICB               Aug-98              Oct-98            Mar-99            Jun-99
Rehabilitation - Refurbishment                                  SW         5      666.5       NCB, MW               Nov-97             Dec-97   Jan-98 to Oct-99           Mar-00
Technical Services                                               TS        6      365.8          NCB                Mar-98   Apr-98 to May-01   May-98 to Aug-01           Dec-01
Line of Credit                                                                   6850.0          CP
Training and Technical Assistance                             CF/CI       11    1120.2    QCBS, QBS, LC, I          Nov-97   Dec-97 to May-99   Jan-98 to Mar40            Jun41
Prolect Implementation                                           CI       92      1829.4        I, NBF              Feb-98             Mar-98            Apr-98            Sep42
ORmiraUng Costs                                                                   5315.2
GRAND TOTAL                                                                      18314.9
PPF Financed                                                                      1500.0
Total Vehicles                                             G               11      110.0          Is                Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97           Jan-98
Computer Equipment                                         G                1      133.0          IS                Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97           Jan-98
Other Equipment                                            G                3      106.0          IS                Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97           Jan-98
Office Fumishings                                          G                1       67.2          IS                Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97           Jan-98
Refurbishment of Facilities                                SW               2       65.0         MW                 Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97           Jan-98
Training and TechnIcal Assistance                          CFICI            6      191.0         I, LC              Oct-97             Nov-97             Dec-97            Jan-98
Credit Line                                                                        650.0          CP
Incremental PIU Costs                                                               76.4
Maintenance and Other Recurrent Costs                                              101.4
Tyvcg G -goods, CF - consulting firms; Cl - individual consultants, TS- technical services
Procurement Method: lCB - intemational competitive bidding, NCB - national competitive bidding: IS - international shopping,
NS - national shopping; MW - minor works, IC - individual consultants, QBS - consultants quality based; QCBS - quality and cost based selection,






ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                            ARMENIA                      Project ID No:                      AM-PA-35806
Project Name:                       Agriculture Reform           Total Project Cost:                 $29.0 million
Support Project
Appraisal Date:                     10-15-97                     Task Manager:                       Mark R. Lundell
Board Date:                         1-22-98                      Sector:                             Agriculture/Title
Managing Division:                  ECSRE                                                             Registration
Lending Instmments:                 Investment Loan              Status:                              Appraisal/Negotiations
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  NA
EA Category (A/B/C):                B                            Date Assigned:                      June 14, 1996
Date Shcet Prepared/Updated         November 20, 1997
(Please do not leave any items blank: use 'N/A' or 'To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
Financing an expansion of the rural credit system, establishing a unified registry system  of both rural and
urban land and other real estate, establishing an agribusiness development center to offer information and
training on agro-industrial restructuring, and institutional strengthening with i) financing for intensification
of agricultural extension services, ii) investments in retraining the teaching staff for higher agricultural and
agribusiness education, and (iii) critical investments in the agricultural research system.
Major Envionmenal Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
No significant negative environmental impacts are anticipated from  this project. The average loan size in the
rural finance component is small (US$1000 per borrower) and the types of investment would be aimed at
increasing agricultural productivity of individual private farmers with average holdings of 1.4 hectares. The
share of fertilizers and agricultural chemicals in farm  input costs (indicated by a 1996 farmer survey) is
15%.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
The project's rural finance and agricultural extension components could promote use of off-farm  inputs such
as agro-chemicals and fertilizers.
Proposed Actons: (describes actions proposed to mitigate enviromnental issues described in project)
All agro-chemicals and fertilizers promoted by the Agricultural Extension Service under the project would
be in accordance with OD 4.03. The credit officers of the participating financial institutions Cooperative
bank and others) will receive training in the screening of loan applications for the use of agricultural
chemicals, including awareness of hazardous pesticides.
JustficationlRatonak for Envronmental Category: (reasons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from initial classification)
The project was classified as category "B" because the rural finance and agricultural extension components
could promote use of off-farm  inputs such as agro-chemicals and fertilizers, but sufficient screening and
monitoring procedures will be in place.
Stu of Category A Environmental Assessmentk (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
NA
Remarks: (gives staus of any other enviromnental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc)
A National Environmental Action Plan is currently being worked out with relevant counterparts in the
Government of Armenia.
Signed by:                                                       Signed by:                                                     l
Jo_ ayachel de Nevers, Sector LeIer, ECSRE
l ______________________________________________________  1                                                    November 20, 1997






Armenia at a glance
Eu.r4:p:1 &
POVERTY and S0CCAL                                  Cent    Law.
Anmneas    Asa Income                Deve0pmefe dli_n
Populaton mrd.1995 (Mnos)                     3.8      48    3.180
GNP p  cptt 1995 IMJSUS                       730    2220      "a            I           Lim
GNP 1995 (ns US57                              Z8    1,084   1,399
Average annual ghwd, 199041
PopulaUon (%)                                  1.2     0.3      1.7t
Labrorc(I t                                    1.4     0.5      1.7            GNP
Most rectm estmaW gated yetrAdo   wv  1988)                                    calz
Prvety. hadcount ked  (    W d)
Uroanpopulaionfl(%dofelpoSdps                  .50      6S      29
LUfa *vowicy at b8 &*W)                        73      e8       63
Infant moitey (Dv 1.O NWO  lhe 21                       28      69                      Acssto sof war
Chdd malnumth.n (% o   Idf  u                   _               Al
Aiss  to safe wat (% odpo o                     ..       .,     s7
lteracy (% of popa,}n a 15;)                                    34 1n
Goss pnrmay enrofnt (% af3dxwo   popum,        s0       97     105             -Low           mup
mew                                          87       97     112
Fonrale                                      93       97       s                                -
KEY ECONOMIC RAIOS and LONrTERM TREOMS
1*75    19"     1914   1998 1998.S        E    n 
GOP (bilons USS)                        ..    5.1       0.7     1.3     1.6
<;osa damsc inGDestmrVOP                ..   27.8    10.8    10.2       7.1
E!=on  of good_ and nw4atser"I                  .    39.5    23.7   22.9
Gross domec SaVuqWGOP                   ..   32.8   -29.2   -28.0   .25.9
Gross nonal sv GP                       _              11.7    -.2    -83
cw,nsvt acon bawnal6DP (awe g_             _355   -:3.9   -25. \ 
Tal daoDu           GOP                               30.7    3Z9    38.2
TW dett sele)poll.                                      3.1    20.4    18.8
Pim vauefdeo de P                       _.      _      7.9
Prit valu of dswlwm                     ..            79.6
1575.84 1 J8-    1t"4    19S   191 ti 191748          -Ann
(averg annual gM!)                                                                - L oog
GDP                           41.1   41t.4     5.4     6.9      5.3     6.1
GNP per capt                     -    122     4.5      3.9     4.J     4.3
E-orts of goods and rds         _       _     3.0    10.0    14.2       9.8    __
3TRUCTURE of this CONOMY
1t51    1181    1954   191  1116.1
(% of GOP)                                                                             t   of d _ _ _
Ag-uttrs                                _    14.7    43.5    42.8    38.3                     1%
Irndy                                   .    51.3    35.8    34.0    31.9
Manufacig                                       .   25.1    24.0    22.8 
ser#ls                                  .    30.0    17.5   19.7    23.0
PW? uonsumpbo                           _    46.4   117.7   115.0   113.9                          96  Is
Genr govemmem canun-ption                    20.S    11.5   13.0    12.0
1rnmor of goods and                             .,4atr sw   . .  79.5    61.9   5S.9 1   -a   -*30P
117144 19815-      1994   19s, 1996 1
(&Vev* annual gmw0)
Agrncutu                                ..      ..   -12.0      5.2     3.0  |
icusy                                          ..    20.0       1.8     2.2j
Manufang                              ..      ..       ..     2.5     2.5       4
Sees                                    ..            70.5    I9.4    9.1
P1va  consumption                      ,,       ,      8.8    21.9     9.2
General gaveme   nuo     on             ,.      _     13.3    40.a      1.5        '
Gcoss domeotc invesullnt               ..       _     S7.0     9.4   .22.4                ;
I prnt   df goods and son-iot rQrvS     .. _           5.0    35.8     9.9  I    _   _,,      ,
Gros natonal produ                      ..  -10.9      5.4     4.2    5.1
dhoiamonds sfow four kaytndle  neeeni (In tiold) coipafe4wihrtwcoregroupaveage.If dw na rssu, w     e n drd VS
s Esswiate



Annena
PRICES and GOVERNIT RINANCE
157     155     1584    1518 155.        k.idan%I
OomC plc.s
(% denge)                                                                      __
Crunw Qnm                               _       _  5.273.4   176.7   18.       4
IHrriit GOP defator                    0.4    4.7   .273.4   161.2   19.5    '
Govenm nn
of atGDP)                                                                     4          1    u          W  J
Cuaemt ruwue (gxd gram)                 _       _      15.     16.2    16.2
C-imnt Wbeforce (pd gw)_              -t S6.5   J.                     .345
Over0l surt( devgct(Uah ")              _             -2B.3   .13.5   -10.1         -t              -C _pI
TRDE
(-  197S   1S6    1554    1t1S 1M16e of              a  klmpeeim (mu.tS5
(1Wms US$) 
Tow expo  (tb)                          _       _      200     271     290
n.s.                                  _       _                               4  . 
manuf _b                                              41      39      40   .      _
Tite tmpot (c m                   _                    401-   673      726      Zan
Food                                  _       ..    113      229    247       *    .
Fwu and nery                                         160     17_     194 I
Caoia goods                      _      _              14     26      25            a n      a  a     a
rt ce ila  (1994-10                                    100     108     113                 cS     
[moon pnct mto  (1994-00J               _       _      100     119     115
TermsOf d* (99404100                            .      100      95      06     ___________
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1575    158     1594    1956  199 o          Cw1e             t
(jndions US$)                                                                                  %
Ex.ts of goods aid no_trv=s             .              257     304    365
lcorm of goodst aidmx4acrssvis          .              51_      796    890
Rmowr  atanr                            _             -m 21    -42    -525
mm factor  one            __                            -927 V0         2     4     n
SWK currommttt                          _       _       36      as      74   1w J
nur" cwt sl                                                                  140               
3eftm offal toaea                     .       _        1     43    -424                           L
FW=nqg ibns                             _       _      238        465    434
Cianes in ne r_ves                                      -7    -29      -t1
A emo:_
Rwtnesndud  gk dO    US5,               _       _       32     107    167
C4nversmn rim (_b                        Lt4E-03      96.3   25Z.7
EXTERNAL OEWT ad RESOURCE PLOWS5
tmUSSst~~~~~~~~~I    j3 It"IsS l9t
ToWdeotmoutiAk    nrAisbwsd             _     134      200    423    al6
iBRD                                 _       1        2        5      11
IOA                                                   5     - 94    181                    A
ToW dedtsw4=                            .       2        a      63    6C
IBRO                                 _       0        a       0        1                           94
IOA                                  _       0        0       0       1
CorPOSMOn o net rtMCe  flOWS
ofIomI gruno                         .      76      237    199       17s    168.4
Oclkaa , atou                        -      87       41      72    174
Pnvw _dts                             .      0        0       a       0
;orman diraiWaneft                           a O      3       is     22                              C
poerdo.eqwty                         ..      0         0 O
womI Bank wo~qmsn
CO _ivsm                                     12       28     149     79                  g A.EURO     - EB-_
Olsowwt s                                     1        7      92     92     3.10A -O.ownuatU  F - PVM
Prlnouaireanymen                     .       0         0       0      0     a-MP                    G-Shoo.
NotIIows                             -        1        7     92      92
,n,*.sQ aymenm                       _       o        0        1      2
Not tunur                            -       t        6      91      91
lntmauorat Ez:nom  Oeo m0
Note: Estmatas for gowmie of St bm  So"it Union am eubic to mor tn VW e ua igunpd wmt.
e Estimate



4E Am                         To SBW-ved                                                         46 1A- 4'4
GEORGIA                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEORGIA
/                                              xToS=9dunovia  ',_,NZ /t  <   [ r*S  a  tt  '--  \   4c                    .t            UKRANE
,o~""\/   A   < 7          >      X                 ;<,                         ,    <loedi  -y  -m bei                                                                       R t''  USS AN            UrAIA
GVU>,.                                                                                                                                                                                                 KAZAKS ,  *  o   - 'trANN
'xLORI                                         I                                                              SI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '~OLDOVA  FEDERATION    '               m
4aa Wh '                                                                                                                                                     GAROM  IA                      1
C  ,-"-  >jW -ZiF t  o  %( .I       IJANZo             Ierd                                          MINGECHAURSKOYE                                                 A
G        KOSu         , -VANADZORN~ >                                                                                              RESERVOIR                                                            ' REI  ~ ' qW,BCAJKENISTAN
/                                                              , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yTURKEY                                                                  t,
L}t  __ .SARAKtm Y               V   '        Dili1orn
t))  ;i  'f4b  Asl4TARAi>_i4TtE   GAVARt t 5S<<At8    X        o*s                                             REPUBLIC  OF  ARMENIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRIN  ILAMC EPULI
AkFuno  {SIRK               S1tX aa?-                                              -~~-                                                                               -            ,, .-o-C                        < q1tKU   N1 .s 
h7  '  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YRTASH:~'                                                     ARAB \ 9 
Up                                                                                                                                        ModBtorroooon    1' REP  -      I RAG              O E IRAN
r,                          khk.dr                                                    AZERBAIJAN
A,.q.t ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ Kososls5 R-RAN%
$AGTZOTN7
YcASAAAK-                                                   GUREPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
N   of rhs vzd E ek                                                       >'~~~~~~~~~~~   j                                     i       DR 
CRESERVOIRS
y,                                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TGWNS/V VLLAGES
AR4                                                                                                                                      (F)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrlo  orei    BEGION MARZI CAPITALS
 NATIONAL CAPITAL
R,                                                                                                                                                 '=    EElo ZSaROADSl40'
HAT                                                                                                                     . 45' 46   u R11-ROADSLA
REGION 9,%ARZ) BOUNDARIES
Arorot                                   J-kAY T D R                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIE
TSGGNDZR 
.ol                YEGEG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''-N  
AZERBA&IJAN         To k-;A  /           T';
-.4             ~~ISLAMIC
Tho,pes,-odsai                                REPUBLIC                       Bo,s,                                                          ,      TZoeo                           S        2         B       AMe
-39-                                    ~~~~~~~OF IRAN                                                                                                                     ID 2D       Q    0    '       0K,.r   9-
SB;ns~,,,Uo,eso,,A`k
ik5 'opAoeot'n~~~~~~~~t~~ tm  t                                                                                                                 B    15    55    55    45    55   ASK senIors  49'~~~~~~~~T.  ld~~d 
44'                                               45                                                                                                 A7R'8
JULY 1997



