Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2299 YEM
          (Agriculture Sector Management Support Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated October 7, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2299 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
the Netherlands a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount
equivalent to three million U.S. Dollars to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Government of the Netherlands; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AREA" means the Agricultural Research and Extension
Authority established and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 32
of 1983;
      (b)   "MAWR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources of the Borrower; and
      (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2001 and ending April 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MAWR and Part B of the Project through AREA with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  5
      (a)   that the Netherlands Grant Agreement shall have failed
to become effective by June 30, 1992, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the Netherlands Grant shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the Netherlands
                  Grant Agreement.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  con- ditions consistent with the obligations of
                  the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)   the Agriculture Sector Analysis Specialist, the Budget
and Financial Control Specialist, and the Human Resources Management
Specialist referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement shall have been recruited in accordance with the
provisions thereof; and
      (b)   the Netherlands Grant Agreement shall have been duly
signed by the Borrower and the Government of the Netherlands.
      Section 6.02. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  CENPLAN                         2266 CENPLAN YE
                  Sana'a
Page  6
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:                Telex:
                        INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                        Washington, D.C           248423 (RCA),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                  By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ram K. Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   (a) Civil works           300,000         85%
          under
          Part A (1) of
          the Project
      (b) Civil works         3,800,000         85%
          under
          Part B (1) of
          the Project
(2)   (a) Equipment,            600,000         100% of foreign
          vehicles,                             expenditures,
          spare parts                           100% of local
          and materials                         expenditures
          under Part A(1)                       (ex-factory
          of the Project                        cost) and 90%
                                    of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
Page  7
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
      (b) Equipment,          2,200,000         100% of foreign
          vehicles,                             expenditures,
          spare parts                           100% of local
          and materials                         expenditures
          under Part B(1)                       (ex-factory
          of the Project                        cost) and 90%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)   Office supplies,          100,000         90% of local
      laboratory equipment,                     expenditures up
      research materials                        to SDR50,000,
      and field expenses                        and 45% of
      under Parts A(2) and                      expenditures
      B of the Project                          thereafter
(4)   (a) Technical            1,300,000        100% of foreign
          assistance                            expenditures and
          and train-                            90% of local
          ing under                             expenditures
          Part A of
          the Project
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
      (b) Technical            1,600,000        100% of foreign
          assistance                            expenditures and
          and train-                            90% of local
          ing under                             expenditures
          Part B of
          the Project
(5)   Unallocated                900,000
                              __________
            TOTAL             10,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithsdanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the MAWR's
capabilities for planning, monitoring and implementing the
development of the agricultural sector of the Borrower; (ii) to
improve the AREA's capabilities for managing, programming and
Page  8
carrying out agricultural research and extension activities; and
(iii) to improve the coordination of agricultural extension
activities and management of the Borrower's national agricultural
sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Assistance to MAWR
      The strengthening of the MAWR's institutional and human
resources, through:
1.    Improvement of facilities: (a) Improvement of facilities at
MAWR's headquarters to enhance technical capabilities, provision of
equipment for these facilities, and provision of vehicles.
      (b)    (i)  Carrying out of studies to determine the future
                  manpower needs of MAWR and to assess
                  architectural requirements based on such
                  projections; and
            (ii)  On the basis of such studies, preparation of a
                  design for new headquarters of MAWR.
2.    Development of a national management capability for the
agricultural sector: strengthening and improving the key departments
of MAWR responsible for administration, financial management, human
resources, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and crop production,
as follows:
      (a)   General Directorate for Planning and Monitoring:
development of methodologies and procedures for project preparation,
evaluation and supervision, creation of an Agricultural Policy
Department for sector and policy analysis, and provision of training
to strengthen staff capabilities for agricultural planning,
commodities review and analysis, monitoring and evaluation,
procurement and disbursement, information systems, and statistical
data analysis.
      (b)   General Directorate for Finance and Administration:
strengthening management and control of MAWR's resource
requirements, strengthening MAWR's personnel management, development
of a program for in-service training, strengthening of MAWR's
storage and inventory control, and provision of training to develop
staff capabilities for budgeting, financial control, human resources
development, and organizational efficiency.
      (c)   Other Directorates: improvement of policies for
distribution of agricultural inputs, improvement of the organization
and operations of MAWR, and provision of training to strengthen
staff capabilities for technical planning, coordination of crop
production, and training in the English language.
Part B:     Assistance to AREA
      The strengthening of AREA's institutional and human resources,
through:
1.    Improvement of Facilities: the construction of a National
Agriculture Training Center, construction of a National Information
Center, construction of offices for the Department of Extension and
Training and additional offices and staff houses at regional
research stations, provision of facilities for regional research
farms, provision of equipment in connection with the foregoing, and
provision of vehicles.
2.    Research Policy: planning a research program to address
priority national agriculture policy objectives and farmers' needs,
creation of an international scientific panel to review research
operations, and continuation and expansion of priority agricultural
Page  9
research work.
3.    Strengthening Extension: Management and operation of a
National Agriculture Training Center, management and operation of a
National Information Center, and support to the Department of
Extension and Training to develop national policies and strategies
for training and field extension services for farmers, including
development of information materials and creation of an Outreach
Unit to: (i) assist in strengthening the linkage between extension
and agricultural research, (ii) assist in systematic interchange
with farmers on a continuous basis, and (iii) assist in coordinating
verification trials and demonstrations.
                 *               *               *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding:
      Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of not
more than $250,000 per contract and $3,000,000 in the aggregate may
be awarded on the basis of comparison of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Local Shopping:
      Contracts for equipment, furniture or machinery estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to the first contract for the construction
of civil works awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally pursuant to Part C (1) of this Schedule 3, each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
Page  10
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts A (1)(b), A (2), B (2) and B (3), the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Project General Director shall be directly responsible to
the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources with such respon-
sibilities and powers as may be necessary or desirable for the
proper execution and supervision of the Project, and shall be
responsible, in particular, for monitoring and coordinating progress
towards institution building objectives, assessing the efficiency of
technical assistance, preparing reports on implementation issues,
and preparing annual implementation programs for project opera-
tions, and shall coordinate Project-related activities.
2.    Individuals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association shall be appointed in the MAWR to fill the positions
of Agriculture Sector Analysis Specialist, Project Planning
Specialist, Budget and Financial Control Specialist, and Human
Resources Management Specialist, all on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, with
organization and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
to monitor the progress of the Project and to coordinate its
components.
4.    For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project
Management Unit established within MAWR with organization,
facilities, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
5.    The Borrower shall cause the MAWR to establish an Agricultural
Policy Department within the General Directorate for Planning and
Monitoring to advise the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources
on policy options within the agriculture sector, to review sector
performance, analyze the role of the agriculture sector in the
Borrower's development, and to assist the MAWR in preparation of the
Page  11
Five-Year Development Plan.
6.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by September 30 of each year or such later date as the
            Association may agree, furnish to the Association for
            its concurrence, MAWR's and AREA's proposed annual work
            programs for the Project and proposed budgetary
            allocations for the carrying out of said programs during
            the following year; and
      (b)   by March 31 of each year or such later date as the
            Association may agree, ensure that annual budgetary
            allocations required for the carrying out of the said
            programs during the following year are made.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that the National Scientific
Research Council shall:
      (a)   by April 30 of each year or such later date as the
            Association may agree, review AREA's research
            achievements; and
      (b)   by October 31 of each year or such later date as the
            Association may agree, advise the Minister of Agri-
            culture and Water Resources on AREA's technical work
            programs and review AREA's policy and 5-year rolling
            program for research.
8.    The Borrower shall provide to the Association for its
approval, by December 31, 1992, or such later date as the
Association may agree, terms of reference for an interim review, and
shall discuss recommendations for a work program for imple-
mentation of the Project with the Association by June 30, 1993, or
such later date as the Association may agree. The Borrower shall
implement said work program according to a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3
and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to US$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
Page  12
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
Page  13
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
