Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3035 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Reform Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3035 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March  12, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
(30) days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"ADC" means the Agribusiness Development Center to be established under 
Part A of the Project; 
(b)
"ARC" means the Agricultural Research Council, an agency of the MOA (as 
defined below) responsible for consolidation of research facilities and coordination 
of the national agricultural research program; 
(c)
"ASCs" means the Agricultural Support Centers, local agencies of the MOA 
(as defined below) responsible under Part C of the Project for coordination of 
research and extension activities; 
(d)
"Beneficiary" means a recipient of a Subloan under Part B of the Project; 
(e)
"Credit Guidelines" means the Credit Guidelines referred to in Part C (4) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(g)
"PFI" means a participating financial institution, to be selected, in 
accordance with the criteria referred to in Part C (2) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, for the provision of Subloans under Part B of the Project;
(h)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within MOA; 
(i)
"PMB" means the Project Management Board, established by the Borrower to 
oversee Project implementation; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
"Subloan" means a loan to be provided by a PFI to a Beneficiary for 
purposes of Part B of the Project and in accordance with the provisions of the Credit 
Page  3
Guidelines; and 
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the PFIs in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
C (3) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
(i) the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary of a Subloan under Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to 
the Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2008, and ending December 15, 2032.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2017 shall 
be one- and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, C and D of the Project through MOA and PIU, and shall cause the PFIs to 
carry out Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, engineering, credit and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated under 
Category (2) of the table shown in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the provision of 
subloans under Part B of the Project to the PFIs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and the PFIs, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association including those set forth in Part C (3) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, C and D of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
Page  5
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each PFI to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the PFI.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each PFI to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
Page  6
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Credit Guidelines shall have 
been amended, suspended, repealed or waived without the Association’s prior consent.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan, 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Ruben Shugarian 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Parts A, C,  
583,000
100% of foreign
and D of the Project
expenditures,
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Subloans under 
    3,580,000 100% of amounts
Part B of the
disbursed by the
Project
PFIs
(3)
Goods under
    1,358,000 100% of foreign
Parts A, C and D 
expenditures,
of the Project
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 90% of local
items procured 
locally
(4)
Consultant’s 
    1,535,000 100%
services and training  
under Parts A, C and D
of the Project
(5)
Incremental operating
    1,587,000 75% of expenditures
cost for Project
incurred prior to June
Institutions
30, 1999; 60% of
expenditures incurred
prior to June 30, 2000,
40% of expenditures
incurred prior to June
30, 2001, and 20% of
expenditures incurred
thereafter
(6)
Incremental operating
      44,000
100%
costs for the PIU
(7)
Refunding of Project
   1,101,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     912,000
Page  8
TOTAL
  10,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operating expenditures 
incurred for purposes of the Project implementation, including expenditures on account 
of office materials, utility supplies and vehicle operation and maintenance, but 
excluding salaries; and 
(d)
the term "Project Institutions" means ADC, ARC, and ASCs. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, and (b) on account of any Subloan unless (i) the Credit Guidelines have 
been adopted and agreed upon with the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C (4) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) such Subloan has been provided in 
accordance with the provisions of the Credit Guidelines.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii)  services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) incremental 
operating costs of the PIU and Project Institutions, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the development of private 
sector farming and agro-processing; (b) improve and expand credit in the farming 
sector; and (c) increase the efficiency of providing agricultural services relating to 
research, education, information, and extension.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agribusiness Development Center (ADC)
Establishment of ADC as a \1fsemi-autonomous agency of the Borrower, responsible 
for providing consultant services to the managers of large commercial farms and 
agro-industrial enterprises and for conducting training for such managers in the areas 
of financial management, marketing and strategic planning.
Part B:
Subloans
Provision through the PFIs, in coordination with the PIU, of subloans to 
farmers, farming enterprises and agribusiness enterprises.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening 
(1)
Equipping of the Agricultural Research Council (ARC). 
(2)
Strengthening of higher agricultural education through the provision of training 
materials and the creation of a computerized information network to improve library 
facilities and access to international technical information. 
(3)
Strengthening of extension services through the establishment and equipping of 
ASCs, including the provision of transportation and communications equipment and 
training materials.
Page  9
Part D:
Strengthening of the PIU 
(1)
Strengthening of PIU’s financial management and capacity to monitor progress of 
the Project implementation, through provision of consultant services, equipment, 
vehicles and training of its staff. 
(2)
Support of project preparation activities for title registration under the State 
Cadastral Administration. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services Under 
Parts A, C and D of the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
Page  10
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B of this Schedule, (ii) the first two contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of this Schedule, and (iii) the first contract 
awarded under each of the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services under the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 
1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The short list of consultants for services under Part C of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for training and technical assistance for ADC and other Project 
institutions shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Least-Cost
Services for local training of ASCs, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
Page  11
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services costing the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Project Management and Supervision  
(1)
The Borrower shall maintain the PMB with representatives from MOA and assign to 
PMB the responsibility for overall management of the Project and supervision of the 
activities of PIU under the Project.
(2)
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU at least until completion of the Project 
under a suitably qualified Project Director, and with such facilities and resources 
and under such terms of reference as shall be required for performance of its 
responsibilities in Project implementation, which shall include, inter alia: 
(a)
by February 15 in each year, the preparation and furnishing to the 
Association, for its review and comments, of annual work programs for the Project;
(b)
the coordination of all activities under the Project; 
(c)
maintenance of  the Project financial records and accounts;
(d)
the coordination and supervision of the preparation of bidding and 
contract documents under the Project, including coordination of the recruitment of 
foreign and national consultants required for Project implementation; and 
(e)
the preparation and furnishing to the Association and PMB, of  
consolidated semi-annual reports on the status of Project implementation.  
B.
Part A of the Project (ADC)
PIU shall implement Part A of the Project and shall, for this purpose:  
(a)
implement, not later than June 30, 1998, a plan agreed upon with the 
Association for the equipping and staffing of ADC;
(b)
prepare and discuss with the Association, by June 30, 1998, a plan, 
including a time-schedule, for the carrying out of  feasibility studies and business 
plans for agro-industrial enterprises and of training of managers of such enterprises; 
and 
(c)
prepare, in agreement with the Association, and thereafter implement, a 
plan for the technical assistance, including the consultancy services, required for 
the proper carrying out of activities included in Part A of the Project.  
C.
Subloans under Part B of the Project
Provision of Subloans under Part B of the Project shall be managed by the PIU in 
accordance with the following arrangements:
(1)
Credit Specialist: An agricultural credit specialist whose qualifications and 
Page  12
experience are satisfactory to the Association shall be appointed and assigned to the 
PIU, by June 30, 1998, to undertake the responsibility for managing the credit 
activities, including:  
(a)
reviewing satisfaction of the criteria, described in paragraph (2) below, 
for accreditation of PFIs under the Project;
(b)
managing withdrawals from the Credit Account (or the Special Account) for 
purposes of the Subloans, and monitoring the carrying out by the PFIs of their 
undertakings under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(c)
maintaining separate records and accounts within the PIU for the 
Subloans; and 
(d)
preparing semi-annual reports on the status of implementation of Part B 
of the Project for incorporation in the reports referred to in Part A (2) (e) of this 
Schedule.
(2)
The PFIs:  A banking or a financial or a cooperative institution of the Borrower 
may be selected by the Borrower as a PFI under the Project on the basis of the 
following criteria, namely, that such institution:
(a)
has an acceptable audit prepared by external auditors and covering its 
last year of operation;
(b)
has the capacity to extend credit for farming and agribusiness purposes 
and relevant experience therein;
(c)
has a capital adequacy ratio of not less than 4%;
(d)
is in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the National Bank of 
Armenia;
(e)
has adopted a strategic corporate plan satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(f)
has adopted, based on the audit report referred to in (a) above, adequate 
policies and procedures for its credit operations.
(3)
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements:  The Borrower, acting through its Ministry of 
Finance and Economy, shall conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each PFI under 
terms and conditions agreed upon with the Association which shall include:  
(a)
the amount of the Credit to be onlent to the PFI; 
(b)
the obligation of the PFI to use such amount exclusively in the provision 
of Subloans under Part B of the Project;  
(c)
the denomination of the amount onlent under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, at the option of the PFI, either in Drams or in Dollars;  
(d)
the obligation of the PFI: (i) to repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement over a period not exceeding fifteen 
(15) years, and with interest at a rate to be determined at such level as shall ensure 
a reasonable spread for the PFI over the interest rate applicable to Subloans provided 
by it;
(e)
the undertaking of the PFI to use amounts repaid to it under Subloans, 
and not required to meet the PFI’s debt-service obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, in the provision of further Subloans under Part B of the Project; and
(f)
the undertaking of the PFI to apply the Credit Guidelines in determining 
the terms of Subloans provided by it under the Project.
(4)
Credit Guidelines: 
(a)
The Borrower shall take all actions to ensure adoption by the PIU, not 
later than June 30, 1998, of Credit Guidelines satisfactory to the Association. The 
Credit Guidelines shall cover such matters as the maximum amounts of Subloans, the 
eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries of Subloans, the procedures for approval of 
Subloans, the farming and agribusiness purposes for which Subloans may be provided, 
the collateral requirements under the Subloan contracts, the repayment periods for 
Page  13
short-term and medium-term Subloans, the basis for determination of interest and other 
charges on Subloans, the procurement procedures to be followed by Beneficiaries of 
Subloans and the reporting requirements to be binding on Beneficiaries of Subloans 
under their contracts with the PFIs.
(b)
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no Subloan shall be 
provided in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $50,000.
(c)
 The Credit Guidelines shall specifically provide, with respect to the 
procurement of goods and works under the Subloan contracts, that (i) works, and goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $15,000 per contract, may be 
procured by the Beneficiaries in accordance with relevant commercial practices, 
provided that such practices involved obtaining quotations from more than one supplier 
or contractor, and that due account is taken of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the supplier and, when relevant, 
availability of maintenance and spare parts, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of not more than $50,000 per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with national shopping procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to adopt operating procedures adequate 
to monitor adherence by the PFIs to the terms of the Credit Guidelines in the 
provision and administration of subloans under Part B of the Project. 
D.
Institutional Strengthening under Part C of the Project
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to prepare, in conjunction with relevant 
officers of MOA, and to furnish to the Association for its comments, by September 30, 
1998, a program of action for the implementation of agricultural service activities 
under Part C (3) of the Project, and thereafter to implement said program in 
accordance with the time-schedule thereof and taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon.   
E.
Monitoring
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,250,000 
Page  14
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  15
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
