Report No. PID7384
Project Name                     Africa-Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       3APE63683
Borrower(s)                      MINISTRIES OF FINANCE OF PART. COUNTRIES
Implementing Agency
Address AFRICAN TRADE INSURANCE AGENCY
COMESA
101 Union Avenue, Harare, Zimbabwe
Contact Person: Mr. Isa Lukwago
Tel: 263 4 726 246
Fax: 263 4 790 954
Email: Ilukwago@ID.CO.ZW
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                August 1, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 1-19, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Private Sector DevelopmentTo achieve significant and sustainable poverty
alleviation in Africa, economic growth of 7 per cent per annum on average
is necessary over the next ten to fifteen years. This level of growth can
only be attained if it is led by the private sector in increasingly
diversified economies. Private sector development is therefore a key
component in the strategies of the governments in the region targeted by
the RTFP. There are several areas related to private sector development
which need to be addressed in order to foster high and sustainable levels
of economic growth in Africa. The issues raised below apply to all or
most of the countries which would participate in the project. For the
sake of clarity and simplicity, the discussion will not differentiate
among countries, but rather will flag factors affecting private sector
development in the region as a whole.Enabling EnvironmentEfforts to
improve the legal and regulatory framework have already been made in the
vast majority of counries in the region, and are being pursued further in
most countries with World Bank support. Investment codes, labor codes,
product markets and prices, trade and tax regimes, and foreign exchange
have been liberalized. Privatization programs have been launched.
Regional organizations, like COMESA and SADC, play an important role in
this context, harmonizing reforms and promoting regional cooperation
though trade, privatization and regulatory networks. Regional trade and
investment promotion actions continue under the aegis of the Regional
Integration Facilitation Forum (RIFF), the successor to the Cross Border
Initiative (CBI), including the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers
to trade and investment. In addition, COMESA is at the forefront of
promotion of intra-regional trade, with the impending introduction of a
free trade area among its member states on October 31, 2000 as a precursor
to the creation of a customs union with low external tariffs.     Security
and Political RisksThe liberalization policies mentioned above are steps



in the right direction to encourage both foreign and domestic private
sector investment. However, participating countries have not yet
established a track record in terms of implementing and maintaining these
policies. Understandably, the private sector is wary to invest in
countries that have reversed such policies in the past, or have only
recently shown their commitment to opening up their economy to the private
sector.Security concerns are present in certain parts of the region. Many
countries have recently emerged from war. Other countries have been
indirectly affected by conflicts in the region. Peace and stability
continue to be at risk, as evidenced by the on-going conflicts in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea and Ethiopia, and Angola. The
real and perceived risk of renewed conflict and/or civil disturbance is a
major impediment to foreign private investment in these areas.Availability
of CreditA functioning financial sector is critical to private sector
development. Emphasis is being put on privatization of state-owned banks,
competition in the banking sector, banking supervision, capital
mobilization, access to credit for small-scale agricultural and industrial
activities, and rural areas. It is realistic to say, however, that the
domestic banks in the region do not yet have the capacity to provide the
support needed to achieve private sector led growth.A survey of and
follow-up discussions with foreign banks that are active in the region
have confirmed that they also are limited in their provision of capital
for private commercial transactions in Africa. In this case, the capacity
to finance viable commercial transactions is restricted by internally
imposed country risk limits as well as constraints imposed by their
regulatory authorities. However, bankers agree that there are many viable
transactions which they could finance if it were not for these exposure
limits, which relate to the risk profile of the financial institution's
portfolio. Banks and other lending institutions must diversify their
portfolio to spread risk, and country limits are one tool they use to
achieve risk diversification. If country risk is covered by insurance,
these country limits are no longer a constraint, and lenders can focus on
the commercial transaction seeking financing rather than on exogenous
political risks.Diversification of Economic ActivityThe economy, and
particularly exports, in countries that would participate in the Regional
Trade Facilitation Project rely heavily on a few key commodities (copper,
gold, minerals) and cash crops (coffee, tea, maize, tobacco, cashew nuts,
etc.). This reliance is detrimental to economic development for well
known reasons, including fluctuations in world market demand and prices,
as well as sensitivity to drought and other natural causes for
agricultural goods. A primary objective of the region's development
strategy is to diversify economic activity towards sectors such as
manufacturing, agro-processing, and tourism that have a higher value added
and are less sensitive to exogenous factors.
2. Objectives
The Regional Trade Facilitation Project's (RTFP) principal objective is to
contribute to poverty alleviation through private sector led growth in
participating countries by improving access to financing for productive
transactions and cross-border trade.The Common Market for Southern and
Eastern Africa (COMESA) initiated the RTFP as an important complement to
its regional integration activities, in particular the introduction of a
free trade area on October 31, 2000. The project will initially cover
seven countries (Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, and
Zambia), and can be extended to cover all African countries, in order to
- 2 -



broaden the development impact of the project as much as
possible.Financing for productive activities in Africa is presently
severely constrained by a perception of high risk in the region as a
whole, and in individual countries in the region. Interviews with market
players indicate that a significant element of this perception is
associated with risks caused by government behavior and political events,
such as war and civil commotion. In many countries, however, this
perception is not justified by current circumstances.     The same is true
for the perception that Africa as a region would be inherently more risky
than other regions or continents.There are significant gaps in the private
political risk insurance market when it comes to the assumption of
political risk in cross-border transactions involving African countries,
which hinders growth of productive activity in Africa. Political risk
cover from commercial sources or export credit agencies is not available
at all for some African countries, and where cover is available it is
usually very costly and on unfavorable terms. In particular, available
cover is either very thin or non-existent for transactions over the medium
term thereby restricting the import of essential capital goods into
African countries.The project aims to address this problem by bringing
together a group of countries who are willing to address the market's
perception by setting up a credible insurance mechanism against losses
caused by political risks. The governments of these countries would agree
to be the ultimate risk takers in the insurance mechanism, thus creating a
strong disincentive to cause claims. This type of insurance is currently
not available from the private market, particularly for medium-term As a
result of the public sector addressing political risk through the RTFP,
the private insurance sector will have the ability to extend its
activities in the region. International export credit insurers, in
cooperation with local financial institutions, will use the political risk
insurance facility to offer commercial risk insurance, which will result
in comprehensive export credit coverage being available to the private
sector in Africa.The project will thus widen the scope for private sector
activity, in particular by extending the maturities at which credit is
available, creating a more stable business environment by ensuring the
availability of coverage on a consistent and predictable basis, and, by
improving the risk, lowering the risk premium. Participating countries
will reap earlier and more substantive benefits from improved policies, as
the private sector will increase its activity without having to wait for a
long track record of policy and political stability.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
From discussions with key stakeholders, it appears that effective
political risk cover requires a partner such as the World Bank, that has
the ability not only to cover the political risks but also to mitigate
these risks by its participation in the scheme. If a government takes
action that could result in a claim, the Bank can use its ongoing policy
dialogue with the government to convince the government to fix the problem
before an actual claim is filed. The Bank's participation in the scheme
also adds credibility to the ATI: the Bank would play a key role in
establishing procedures and rules for issuing insurance, and it would
supervise ATI's operations, thus ensuring transparency and consistency.IDA'
s participation will be particularly valuable as IDA funds will be
leveraged thanks to: (i) the participation of the private political risk
insurance market which will increase its business in the region thanks to
this project; (ii) the revolving nature of the facility which allows funds
-3 -



to support several rounds of transactions; and (iii) donor funds.
Discussions with the private insurance market and export credit agencies
have confirmed that they would not perceive this project as competing with
their business, but rather as a facility that could increase their
involvement in Southern and Eastern Africa because of the Bank's risk
mitigating ability explained above.
4. Description
The project will consist of Political Risk Insurance Facilities (PRIFs)
for each of the seven participating countries, as well as financing for
the start-up operational costs through year two of project operations.
Burundi, PRIF
Kenya, PRIF
Malawi, PRIF
Rwanda, PRIF
Tanzania, PRIF
Uganda, PRIF
Zambia, PRIF
Start-up Operational Costs through year two
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               378.81
IBRD
IDA                      75
Total Project Cost       453.81
6. Implementation
The institutional set-up of the project is critical to its success as the
insurance mechanism must be credible in the eyes of potential policy
holders. The implementing agency must be credible in the eyes of the
market, and must protect the interests of all participating
countries.After exploring different alternatives for the implementing
agency's legal set-up, participating countries, COMESA and the Bank
decided that creating a multilateral institution was the best way to
ensure that the agency implementing the RTFP would be: (i) highly
credible, both from a perspective of legal structure and in the sense of
being free from historical or political baggage; (ii) an agency of the
highest professional standards, which would be dedicated solely to the
important task of implementing the RTFP, a novel facility for the region;
and (iii) open to participation by all African countries, without creating
sensitivities between the various regional and sub-regional organizations
in the region. Therefore, to implement the project, participating
countries are in the process of establishing a multilateral agency, the
African Trade Insurance Agency (ATI). At the COMESA Summit of Heads of
State on May 18, 2000, the Agreement Establishing the African Trade
Insurance Agency was adopted by the Heads of State and recommended for
signature. Burundi, Kenya and Uganda signed the agreement at the Summit.
The Secretary General of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) is the
depositary of the Agreement Establishing ATI. ATI's Board of Directors
will always have 50t private sector representation.    ATI will be
autonomous and enjoy administrative and financial independence..ATI would
manage the facility according to a detailed Operations Manual which spells
out the criteria for determining the eligibility of applications, the form
of insurance contracts, and the procedures for issuing insurance
- 4 -



policies. The Operations Manual would be agreed between the respective
governments, IDA, and the private insurers, and it could not be altered
without the approval of ATI's Board of Directors, IDA, and the insurers.
It would play an important role in building the credibility of ATI. It
would be available to the public, and particularly potential policy
holders, to demonstrate that the rules governing the facility were fair
and transparent.There are a number of insurance structures that ATI will
be able to use in order to provide political risk insurance to risk takers
whether they be a supplier, financial institution or other party
financing, insuring or guaranteeing an eligible transaction. Under all
structures, eligible transactions would include exports from one
participating country to another; exports from a participating country to
a third country; and imports of goods or capital from anywhere to a
participating country as long as the import is related to a productive
activity. The insurance would cover a range of political risks, including
traditional political risks: war and civil disturbance, currency
inconvertibility, inability to transfer currency, expropriation, and
government interference in covered transactions such as arbitrary removal
of import/export licenses, seizure of goods.The preferable and most likely
structure will involve a syndicate of private risk insurers with whom ATI
has agreed in principle on a partnership agreement to leverage the IDA
[and donor] funds allocated to the project. It is possible that the
private insurers may not be willing to take risk in some of the countries
that will participate in the project. This could be the case in countries
where there is still a high risk of civil disturbance (e.g. Burundi). In
such cases, ATI would use a non-leveraged structure that would
nevertheless involve the insurers participation to issue policies on a
fully cash-backed basis. A third structure has been envisaged that would
allow for risk sharing among participating countries, but this structure
would not be used until the facility had been functioning smoothly for
some time, and unless participating countries agreed that risk-sharing was
necessary and desirable in order to expand the facility's capacity and
enhance regional cooperation.IDA would extend a credit to each country
participating in the RTFP. Donor funds would be sought to supplement the
IDA credit. For this purpose, the project team is engaged in a dialogue
with the European Commission and EIB, aimed at making this a joint
project. The size of the IDA credit and donor contribution would depend
on the expected demand for insurance in and the size of the economy of
each country. The IDA credit and donor funds would serve as financial
back-up to each insurance policy. It is important to note that the IDA
[and donor] funds contributed by a participating country remain in the
ownership of that country and the Agencies role is confined to
administering these funds according to agreed criteria. Thus, unless a
participating country agrees to joint the Callable Funds Facility (see
below), the IDA [and donor] funds contributed by one country are at risk
only for political risk in with that country.A. Leveraged StructureUnder a
leveraged structure ATI works in cooperation with a syndicate of private
risk insurers to issue insurance policies. The insurance policies are
issued either directly by the syndicate of insurers, or by ATI in the name
of the private risk insurers. Each country participating in the project
would place the IDA [and donor] funds allocated to it for the project in a
separate trust account and the funds could be withdrawn from this account
only to pay valid claims, and only by the private insurers. A country's
funds, as well as the leverage ratio for that country, as agreed with the
syndicate, would determine the maximum amount of insurance available to
- 5-



cover transactions involving that country (both import and export
transactions). For example, if a country received a USD 10 million IDA
credit and the equivalent amount in donor funds, and the leverage ratio
agreed with the syndicate was 3 to 1, a maximum of USD 60 million in
insurance policies could be issued (USD 20 million times 3). Leverage
ratios may vary among participating countries depending on the outcome of
negotiations with the syndicate. Having a comparatively lower leverage
ratio may be a way of including a higher risk country (e.g. a country with
a high risk of civil disturbance) in the leveraged structure.The funds in
trust would earn interest, which would be used to defray the cost of
operating the facility and to build up reserves.The risk sharing mechanism
between ATI/the countries and the syndicate would be as follows. Claims
would be paid out of the trust account until the funds in the account were
exhausted at which point the syndicate would be liable for additional
claims. It should be stressed that it is not expected that claims would
reach a level where a country's funds would be completely used to pay
claims unless a disaster scenario (such as a full-fledged civil war)
occurred. In addition, for claims occurring as a result of government
actions, i.e. all covered risks other than war and civil disturbance, the
Bank's Credit Agreement with the country would require the government to
replenish the trust account. This requirement strengthens the disincentive
for the government to cause claims.An insurance brokerage firm was
selected by COMESA during project preparation, which assisted the project
team design the insurance facility, negotiate a risk-sharing agreement
with private risk insurers and develop the detailed implementation
arrangements.B. Non-leveraged StructureThe non-leveraged structure would
be used for political risk cover in countries where the private insurance
market is no longer willing to take risk and leverage the IDA [and donor]
funds.The same structure as under a leveraged structure would be used
except that the policies issued, either by the syndicate, or by ATI in the
name of the private insurers, would always be fully cash-backed by the
funds in the trust account.Similarly to a leveraged structure, the
government would have to replenish the trust account in case of a claim
payment resulting from a risk other than war or civil disturbance.C.
Callable Funds FacilityAs mentioned above, the participating countries
would initially have separate trust accounts in which their IDA credit and
donor funds would be deposited. This implies that claims occurring in
country X would only have an impact on the funds of that country. Over
time, the facility could evolve into one where risk sharing among
countries would also be possible. Risk sharing among countries could
create additional capacity and flexibility, and could foster regional
cooperation. Under a risk-sharing agreement, country funds would be
pooled, and claims would be paid from the pool of funds.The pooling of
funds would allow further leveraging of the facility thanks to the spread
of risk. Leveraging would be conservative and set according to an agreed
formula which would depend on the number of participants and the size of
individual participants in the pool. An important prudential control
would be that no country could exceed the agreed leverage ratio for the
scheme as a whole, i.e. if the agreed leverage ratio would be 2 to 1, then
each country would be limited to commitments of twice the amount of its
contribution to the fund.The prudential controls of the CFF would be
tested in the market to determine whether prospective policy holders would
feel comfortable with such arrangements.The terms of the CFF would require
that a participating country be liable to reimburse the pool immediately
for any claims paid as a result of all covered risks other than war and
- 6 -



civil disturbance. Participating countries would also have to agree to be
liable to the pool for a maximum of the amount of the funds in the pool
belonging to that participant. As such, a participating country would
have to accept a level of risk on other participating countries. If the
level of claims in one country were to exceed its share of the pool
including reserves, other countries funds would be at risk if the country
causing the claims did not reimburse the pool for the amount in excess of
its share.This risk would be mitigated through sanctions that would be
imposed on countries that did not meet their obligations. The RTFP would
suspend the issue of further insurance policies in respect of a
participant who did not live up to its commitments, and the participating
country would suffer the consequences of breaching a covenant under an IDA
credit, namely the requirement to reimburse the RTFP. In addition, the
RTFP would have irrevocable rights to committed IDA and donor funds of all
participating countries as commitments under issued insurance policies run
off. Furthermore, insurance premium fees and interest earned on the funds
in trust would build up reserves over time, which would be tapped into
before country funds were called.
7. Sustainability
The project aims directly at allowing the private sector to build business
links on a fully commercial basis. If the underlying transactions are
successful, this will help build a viable private sector which is not
dependent on official assistance or special programs. The fact that the
project will be based on market selection will ensure that the result is
fully sustainable.The participation of the private political risk
insurance market under the leveraged structure will greatly enhance the
sustainability of the project. In the better performing countries, it is
expected that, after the facility is closed, the private market will take
over ATI's role. In these countries, there will have been a track record
built up over the life of the project of acceptable levels of political
risk to allow business to proceed without the support of the
project.Discussions with private insurers indicate that the RTFP and the
private market's involvement in the political risk insurance facility is
likely to lead to their involvement in covering commercial risk in the
region. The broker hired by COMESA has put forward a proposal to make
available commercial risk insurance for trade transaction in parallel with
the project's political risk insurance. It would involve a commercial
arrangement with a major international insurer specializing in trade
credit insurance. To enter the Southern and Eastern Africa market, the
insurer would most likely create a joint venture with a local partner(s),
such as a local insurance company or commercial bank. ATI and the joint
venture could then enter into a reinsurance agreement whereby the joint
venture/trade credit insurance company would issue comprehensive
(political and commercial risk) policies and ATI would reinsure the joint
venture against political risks. The experience with private insurers in
Bosnia and Herzegovina has demonstrated that (i) the market is used to,
and more likely to purchase, comprehensive cover rather than political
risk-only cover and (ii) when private insurers are involved in and aware
of the Bank-financed political risk insurance facility, they are willing
to explore opportunities to cover commercial risks as well. The creation
of a commercially based trade credit insurer in the region would strongly
contribute to the sustainability as well as the development impact of the
RTFP.
-7-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed project design incorporates lessons learned from projects
which established political risk guarantee/insurance facilities (PGFs) in
the ECA region. Three PGFs have been implemented so far, in Moldova,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Albania. The main lesson learned from
preparing and supervising these projects is to root project preparation
firmly in a demand survey of the target market, obtain clear indications
of demand, and build on the survey's results and subsequent contacts with
the private sector to develop a strong database of prospective clients for
the facility. In addition, experience with the Bosnia facility shows that
the PGF concept has tremendous scope for attracting other risk takers,
especially private political risk and credit insurers.The proposed risk
sharing mechanism with private insurers has been used in a single country
scheme in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the World Bank-financed Emergency
Industrial Re-Start Project. A key feature of this mechanism is that it
achieves an efficient risk distribution by allocating most of the risk to
the party that has the strongest ability to mitigate the risk, in this
case the governments of participating countries. In Bosnia and
Herzegovina, this mechanism has demonstrated its effectiveness in
attracting the private market in a country where it was either off-cover
or offering patchy cover.Lessons have been learned in Africa from previous
efforts aimed at increasing capital flows by offering political risk
cover. Entities which have the authority to provide political risk
insurance in the region already exist, such as PTA Bank and Afreximbank.
However, their mainstream business is not the assumption of pure political
risk, but rather acting as a lending institution, and they have in fact
indicated that, in some situations, they would like to reinsure their
political risk with ATI.Previous experience thus indicates that, for a
political risk insurance scheme to be successful, it needs not only to
protect risk-takers, but also to involve players which have the ability to
mitigate the risks which it covers.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The sub-projects being supported by the project are
demand driven and therefore are not yet known. Therefore the
environmental category of the project is Financial Intermediary (FI).
The facility's Operations Manual must take this into account and allow for
different standards to apply for projects of different environmental risk
categories (low, intermediate and high risk). As an FI project, the
Operational Manual clearly articulates that, before approving a
sub-project, ATI must verify through its own staff, outside experts, or
existing environmental institutions, that the sub-project meets the
environmental requirements of appropriate national guidelines and
procedures, and is consistent with OP/BP/GP/4.10 and other applicable
environmental safe guard policies of the Bank.The project's environmental
guidelines reflect the fact that the political risk insurance that will be
made available under the project will cover mostly short-term trade
transactions, and that quick responses to applicants will be key to the
success of the project. Therefore the environmental screening procedures
are as streamlined as possible, particularly when the projects are
expected to have minimal environmental impact. For Category A
sub-projects, ATI will provide a written assessment of the institutional
mechanisms including, as necessary, identification of measures to
- 8 -



strengthen capacity for its sub-project environmental assessment. The
Operations Manual includes standard guidelines and procedures for all
participating countries and provides detailed guidance for ATI's staff.
The manual includes standard environmental screening categories,
descriptions of the types of projects that would fall under each category,
and environmental screening forms to be filled out by applicants and
ATI.The manual clearly establishes the steps that are to be taken by
applicants when applying for political risk insurance regarding the
provision of environmental information on the project, and explains the
applicants' responsibility to provide truthful and accurate information in
their application(s) (at the risk of being denied coverage if untruthful
information is found to have been provided). It also describes how ATI
will assess the potential environmental impact of and environmentally
screen projects applying for insurance using the information provided by
the applicant.In addition, the manual contains up-to-date information on
national environmental laws, regulations and policies, specifies national
requirements and circumstances, and includes an interim policy framework
based on World Bank standards for countries where national requirements
are not acceptable. It also lists the ministries/agencies with which ATI
will need to communicate to obtain information on the projects/companies
applying for political risk insurance (status of their licenses to
operate, etc.), and contains a list of banned import goods.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Onno Ruhl
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-9119
Fax: 202-477-2978
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 4, 2000.
-9-



