Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21901 AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 85.2 MILLION
(US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI, REPUBLIC OF KENYA, REPUBLIC OF MALAWI,
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA,
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA, REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AND AFRICAN TRADE INSURANCE AGENCY
FORA
REGIONAL TRADE FACILITATION PROJECT
March 12, 2001
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2001)
Country             Currency Unit              US$1 is equal to             Fiscal Year
Burundi         Burundi Franc (BIF)           BIF          777.00       January 1  -  December 31
Kenya          Kenya Shillings (KES)          KES            78.78      July 1      -  June 30
Malawi         Malawi Kwacha (MWK)            MWK            80.25      January 1  -  December 31
Rwanda         Rwanda Francs (RWF)            RWF          431.49       January 1  -  December 31
Tanzania       Tanzanian Shillings (TZS)      TZS           810.50      July I      -  June 30
Uganda         Uganda Shillings (UGX)         UGX          1842.50      July 1      -  June 30
Zambia         Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)           ZMK         3550.00       January I  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATI                African Trade Insurance Agency
CBI                Cross Border Initiative
COMESA             Conmnon Market for Southern and Eastern Africa
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
ECA                Europe and Central Asia Region
EMP                Environmental
ERR                Economnic Rate Return
Fl                 Financial Intermediary
FMS                Financial Management System
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
LAPSO              Inter-Agency Procurement Service
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Association
IFC                International Finance Corporation
LCS                Least Cost Selection
MIGA               Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NBF                Not Bank Financed
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NPV                Net Present Value
OAU                Organization of African Unity
PGF                Political Risk Guarantee/Insurance Facilities
PMR                Project Management Reports
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
PSR                Project Status Report
PTA                Preferential Trade Area
QCBS               Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RIFF               Regional Integration Facilitation Forum
RTFP               Regional Trade Facilitation Project
SADC               Southern Africa Development Community
SME                Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
TAC                Technical Advisory Committee
TAG                Technical Advisory Group
UNCITRAL           United Nations Commnission on International Law
VAT                Value Added Tax
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Onno Ruhl



AFRICA
REGIONAL TRADE FACILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environmental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23
2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          63



AFRICA
Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Private Sector Unit
Date: March 12, 2001                              Team Leader: Onno Ruhl
Country Director: Yaw Ansu                        Sector Manager: Demba Ba
Project ID: P063683                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [X1 Credit    [ Grant    [ Guarantee    [ ]  Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $110.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                    Service charge: 0.75%
FinanciK Plan:    Source      .                              Locjl         Foreln           Tota
BORROWER                                                        0.70           0.00          0.70
IDA                                                             0.00         110.00         110.00
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                              195.00           0.00        195.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                        195.70         110.00        305.70
Borrower: MINISTRY OF FINANCE IN EACH COUNTRY
Responsible agency: AFRICAN TRADE INSURANCE AGENCY
Address: Times Towers, Haile Selassie Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Mr. Erastus J.O. Mwencha, Interim Managing Director
Tel: 254 2 343 310               Fax: 254 2 343 310               Email: MD@ATI-ACA.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUSS
Annual   30.00       45.00      35.00
Cumulative   30.00      75.00      110.00
Project Implementation period: 2001-2011
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2011



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Regional Trade Facilitation Project's (RTFP) principal objective is to contribute to poverty alleviation
through private sector led growth in participating countries by improving access to financing for productive
transactions and cross-border trade.
The Common Market for Southern and Eastern Africa (COMESA) initiated the RTFP as an important
complement to its regional integration activities, in particular the introduction of a free trade area on
October 31, 2000. The project will initially cover seven countries (Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda,
Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia), and can be extended to cover all African countries, in order to broaden
the development impact of the project as much as possible.
Financing for productive activities in Africa is presently severely constrained by a perception of high risk in
the region as a whole, and in individual countries in the region. Interviews with market players indicate
that a significant element of this perception is associated with risks caused by government behavior and
political events, such as war and civil commotion. In many countries, however, this perception is not
justified by current circumstances. The same is true for the perception that Africa as a region would be
inherently more risky than other regions or continents.
There are significant gaps in the private political risk insurance market when it comes to the assumption of
political risk in cross-border transactions involving African countries, which hinders growth of productive
activity in Africa. Political risk cover from commercial sources or export credit agencies is not available at
all for some African countries, and where cover is available it is usually very costly and on unfavorable
terns. In particular, available cover is either very thin or non-existent for transactions over the medium
term thereby restricting the import of essential capital goods into African countries.
The project aims to address this problem by bringing together a group of countries that are willing to
address the market's perception by setting up a credible insurance mechanism against losses caused by
political risks. The governments of these countries would agree to be the ultimate risk takers in the
insurance mechanism, thus creating a strong disincentive to cause claims. This type of insurance is
currently not available from the private market, particularly for medium-term transactions (over one year).
As a result of the public sector addressing political risk through the RTFP, the private insurance sector will
have the ability to extend its activities in the region. International export credit insurers, in cooperation
with local financial institutions, will use the political risk insurance facility to offer commercial risk
insurance, which will result in comprehensive export credit coverage being available to the private sector in
Africa.
The project will thus widen the scope for private sector activity, in particular by extending the maturities at
which credit is available, creating a more stable business environment by ensuring the availability of
coverage on a consistent and predictable basis, and, by improving the risk, lowering the risk premium.
Participating countries will reap earlier and more substantive benefits from improved policies, as the
private sector will increase its activity without having to wait for a long track record of policy and political
stability.
-2 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators to measure project development objectives would be:
*   the volume of policies issued per country (see targets below);
*   that the implementing agency, the African Trade Insurance Agency (ATI), becomes self-financing after
two years of operation;
*   the level of claims - on average one claim or less resulting from a government performance risk per
country per year;
*   the establishment of a leveraging partnership with private risk insurers for political risk insurance
cover.
Project output would be measured by the value of insurance policies issued.
Measuring performance would require tracking the value and number of policies issued measuring (i) the
increase of imports into the region, excluding donor-financed imports, (ii) exports from the region, and (iii)
the volume of intra-regional trade. The project would have achieved its objective if there was an average 7
percent growth per year in the value of trade flows involving countries outside the region, measured in
United States dollars. The growth rate for intra-regional trade should start at around 7 percent and
increase to around 15 percent per annum by project end. Increasing regional integration will foster higher
volumes of intra-regional trade which is vital for the region's sustainable economic development.
Performance benchmarks for project output/value of insurance policies issued in participating countries
after three years and ten years of implementation are as follows:
Year 3                    Year 10
Burundi:              US$7 million              US$70 million
Kenya:                US$35 million             US$350 million
Malawi:               US$14 million             US$140 million
Rwanda:               US$7 million              US$70 million
Tanzania:             US$20 million             US$200 million
Uganda:               US$25 million             US$250 million
Zambia:              US$20 million              US$200 million
These figures are based on detailed projections in the project files, which are based on (i) the size of the
hiternational Development Association (IDA) credit for each country; (ii) the expected leverage ratio and
resulting total capacity per country; and (iii) expected demand. It is expected that the volume of coverage
per year would increase gradually over the life of the project. Indeed, the figures for year three appear modest
in comparison with the year ten benchmarks, as a slow uptake in demand is expected in the project's early years
while the market becomes familiar with ATI and its insurance policies, and ATI builds its reputation. Quicker
growth in the later years of the project also reflects expected diversification of the economies of participating
countries and thus higher and more diverse demand.
Other important indicators of performance would include: (i) catalyzing the introduction in the market of
private comprehensive trade credit insurance; (ii) the increase in the volume of bank lending for trade
transactions (including local and foreign banks); an average 10 percent per annum increase over the
project's life would be a significant achievement; (iii) a decreasing trend in cost and increasing trend in
maturity of trade finance; (iv) increasing the number of participating countries over the life of the project;
- 3 -



(v) the broadening of ATI's client base in individual participating countries over the life of the project; (vi)
the diversification of participating countries' economies and export markets to be demonstrated by a
decreasing trend in the share of commodities and cash crops as a percentage of GDP and exports; and (vii)
an improvement in the perception of political risks in participating countries as indicated, inter alia, by
higher leverage ratios from the private risk insurers involved in the facility, more favorable political risk
country ratings, and new private market entrants providing risk coverage in the region.
It will take a number of years for the project, in conjunction with other initiatives and reforms in the region,
to have a measurable impact on the areas listed above. The indicators will be monitored throughout the life
of the project, but it should be noted that the results in the first couple of years may not be representative of
the impact the project will have over its ten year life.
The following indicators will trigger corrective action at the mid-term review (after three years of
operation):
*   ATI is not self-financing;
*  the second tranche of IDA credits for individual countries is not yet fully utilized (i.e. is not backing up
insurance policies).
Although the project will play an important role in facilitating trade, success in attaining the project's
objectives will hinge upon continued market-oriented reforms in participating countries, the success of
regional integration initiatives, such as the COMESA free trade area, and the degree of political stability in
individual countries and the region as a whole. The evaluation of the project will therefore need to take into
account progress or lack of progress in policy and institutional reforms supporting private and financial
sector development, as well as policies supporting regional integration and political developments in the
region.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A              Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
CAS document number:                    Date of latest CAS discussion:
Republic of Burundi, 14442-BU              May 2, 1995 (Interim Strategy No 19592-BU,
October 5, 1999)
Republic of Kenya, 18391-KE                September 2, 1998
Republic of Malawi, 21419-MAI              December 21, 2000
Republic of Rwanda, 17478-RW               March 17, 1998 (CAS Progress Report
IDA/R99-135, June 29, 1999)
United Republic of Tanzania,               June 15, 2000
20426-TA
Republic of Uganda, 20886-UG               November 16, 2000
Republic of Zambia, 19889-ZA               November 17, 1999
-4 -



This project would address an objective which is underlined in all of the above CASs as a primary goal of
the relevant Government and the Bank -- private sector led growth, with a focus on diversification of
economic activity, and exports in particular.  The project would facilitate access to financing for
companies, both small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) and large enterprises, whose development has
been hindered by limited access to capital, especially beyond maturities of one year. The provision of
insurance policies against political risks would allow foreign financiers to fund viable short- and
medium-term commercial transactions in participating countries, thereby lifting an important impediment to
private sector development. Business transactions generating foreign exchange through exports would also
benefit from the insurance, regardless of the source of financing. In addition, in post-crisis countries, the
project could contribute significantly to the reconstruction of infrastructure, a vital prerequisite for private
sector development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Private Sector Development
To achieve significant and sustainable poverty alleviation in Africa, economic growth of seven percent per
annum on average is necessary over the next ten to fifteen years [Note: This figure comes from a joint
report by the United Nations Economic Commission for AFrica and the World Bank - (World Bank, 2000.
"Can Africa Claim the 21st Century?" Washington, D.C.). This level of growth can only be attained if it
is led by the private sector in increasingly diversified economies. Private sector development is therefore a
key component in the strategies of the governments in the region targeted by the RTFP. There are several
areas related to private sector development which need to be addressed in order to foster high and
sustainable levels of economic growth in Africa. The issues raised below apply to all or most of the
countries which would participate in the project. For the sake of clarity and simplicity, the discussion will
not differentiate among countries, but rather will flag factors affecting private sector development in the
region as a whole.
Enabling Environment
Efforts to improve the legal and regulatory framework have already been made in the vast majority of
countries in the region, and are being pursued further in most countries with World Bank support.
Investment codes, labor codes, product markets and prices, trade and tax regimes, and foreign exchange
have been liberalized. Privatization programs have been launched. Regional organizations, like COMESA
and Southern Africa Development Community (SADC), play an important role in this context, harmonizing
reforms and promoting regional cooperation though trade, privatization and regulatory networks. Regional
trade and investment promotion actions continue under the aegis of the Regional Integration Facilitation
Forum (RIFF), the successor to the "Cross Border Initiative" (CBI), including the removal of tariff and
non-tariff barriers to trade and investment. In addition, COMESA is at the forefront of promotion of
intra-regional trade, with the impending introduction of a free trade area among its member states on
October 31, 2000 as a precursor to the creation of a customs union with low external tariffs.
Security and Political Risks
The liberalization policies mentioned above are steps in the right direction to encourage both foreign and
domestic private sector investment. However, participating countries have not yet established a track
record in terms of implementing and maintaining these policies. Understandably, the private sector is wary
to invest in countries that have reversed such policies in the past, or have only recently shown their
commitment to opening up their economy to the private sector.
Security concerns are present in certain parts of the region. Many countries have recently emerged from
-5 -



war. Other countries have been indirectly affected by conflicts in the region. Peace and stability continue
to be at risk, as evidenced by the on-going conflicts in the region. The real and perceived risk of renewed
conflict and/or civil disturbance is a major impediment to foreign private investment in these areas.
Availability of Credit
A functioning financial sector is critical to private sector development. Emphasis is being put on
privatization of state-owned banks, competition in the banking sector, banking supervision, capital
mobilization, access to credit for small-scale agricultural and industrial activities, and rural areas. It is
realistic to say, however, that the domestic banks in the region do not yet have the capacity to provide the
support needed for private sector led growth.
A survey of and follow-up discussions with foreign banks that are active in the region have confirmed that
they also are limited in their provision of capital for private commercial transactions in Africa. In this case,
the capacity to finance viable commercial transactions is restricted by internally imposed country risk limits
as well as constraints imposed by their regulatory authorities. However, bankers agree that there are many
viable transactions which they could finance if it were not for these exposure limits, which relate to the risk
profile of the financial institution's portfolio. Banks and other lending institutions must diversify their
portfolio to spread risk, and country limits are one tool they use to achieve risk diversification. If country
risk is covered by insurance, these country limits are no longer a constraint, and lenders can focus on the
commercial transaction seeking financing rather than on exogenous political risks.
Diversification of Economic Activity
The economy, and particularly exports, in countries that would participate in the RTFP rely heavily on a
few key commodities (copper, gold, minerals) and cash crops (coffee, tea, maize, tobacco, cashew nuts,
etc.). This reliance is detrimental to economic development for well known reasons, including fluctuations
in world market demand and prices, as well as sensitivity to drought and other natural causes for
agricultural goods. A primary objective of the region's development strategy is to diversify economic
activity towards sectors such as manufacturing, agro-processing, and tourism that have a higher value
added and are less sensitive to exogenous factors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Increasing the volume of financing for trade within the region and with third countries is crucial to achieve
private sector-led growth. Private sector development has been constrained by the small size of the
financial sector in Africa, the limited number of foreign financial institutions active in Africa and the small
volumes of foreign financing from the private sector flowing to Africa. The project would enable increased
regional and international financing flows for enterprises involved in cross-border trade by addressing the
issues listed above under "Security and Political Risks" and "Availability of Credit". The project would
also indirectly underpin efforts to diversify the region's economy.
The proposed project would directly address the concerns of risk takers regarding a lack of policy
continuity and consistency by providing insurance against the risk of a reversal in the government's policies
which negatively affects business (for example restricting the conversion of local currency into foreign
exchange, retro-actively increasing import tariffs, arbitrarily removing a license, or customs unlawfully
intervening in the import or export of goods).
-6 -



The insurance facility would also provide cover against losses resulting from the occurrence of war and
civil disturbance, thus addressing the second component of country risk that impedes increased private
sector capital flows to the region.
Furthermore, the project was specifically designed to allow international export credit insurers to build
upon the political risk insurance facility and offer comprehensive coverage, i.e. political and commercial
risk cover. This is starting to pay off, as ATI is about the sign a Memorandum of Understanding on a
strategic partnership to offer comprehensive coverage with one of the largest credit insurance companies in
the world. This partnership, which might include International Finance Corporation (IFC) will not use IDA
or governnent funds to cover commercial risk.
This project is specifically designed to increase the availability of credit for viable comnercial transactions
that increase productive activity and hard currency flows to the region. It recognizes that domestic sources
of finance are not sufficient to achieve strong private sector growth, and that foreign sources of finance are
not yet willing or able to channel the capital which is needed to spur growth. As the facility would mitigate
political risks, it would allow foreign banks to increase their lending to the region. They would be able to
obtain insurance against political risk, and thus extend their exposure beyond their internal, and in some
cases, regulatory country limits. Discussions on this issue with regulatory authorities in key countries are
being inititiated by ATI.
The project could also play an indirect role in diversifying the economy by enabling small and medium
sized enterprises and joint ventures to attract financing to develop new areas of business, giving them
access to working capital, capital goods and input goods for processing.
- 7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will consist of Political Risk Insurance Facilities for each of the seven participating countries,
as well as financing for the start-up operational costs through year two of project operations.
indicative            Bank-:   ;;  of
Comwsponnt¢                sec  t;: ;to  Cots-   %4off :afinancing    Banf
Burundi, PRIF                      Financial Sector   15.00       4.9       7.50       6.8
Development
Kenya, PRIF                        Financial Sector   75.00      24.5     25.00       22.7
Development
Malawi, PRIF                       Financial Sector   45.00      14.7      15.00      13.6
Development
Rwanda, PRIF                       Financial Sector   15.00       4.9      7.50        6.8
Development
Tanzania, PRIF                     Financial Sector   45.00      14.7      15.00      13.6
Development
Uganda, PRIF                       Financial Sector   60.00      19.6      20.00      18.2
Development
Zambia, PRIF                       Financial Sector   45.00      14.7      15.00      13.6
Development
Start-up Operational Costs through  Institutional      5.00       1.6      5.00        4.5
year two                           Development
Initial Contribution to ATI        Institutional       0.70       0.2       0.00       0.0
Development
Total Project Costs                 305.70     100.0    110.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                  305.70      100.0    110.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As mentioned above, the countries and the Bank are focusing on creating an enabling environment for
private sector development. This project would not specifically address outstanding policy or institutional
issues. Rather, it would build upon the results that have already been achieved on the policy side and speed
up the benefits that ongoing liberalization can bring to the region by protecting the private sector against
policy reversals while countries build a track record of policy continuity. In addition, the project would
stimulate good governance because of the fact that government interference in insured commercial
transactions would come at a cost for the country, i.e. if a government causes a claim, it has to pay the
claim, and it risks suspension from the facility.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The principal medium-term benefit of the project will be poverty alleviation through sustainable, private
sector-led growth. Private sector-led growth will foster increased employment and production which will
result in poverty reduction. The project will also foster increased exports and the generation of foreign
exchange.
The project will address a major impediment to economic growth in participating countries, i.e. the lack of
financing for viable productive activity and cross-border trade. It will facilitate the creation of sustainable
cross-border business links, which, over time, will reduce dependence on aid and lead to an improved image
of the region as a place to do business.
The project will facilitate intra-African trade and enhance ongoing regional integration efforts. It will bring
together a significant block of countries and eliminate political barriers to trade among participating
countries as enterprises will have access to political risk insurance when trading with partners in another
participating country. This feature will encourage other African countries to join the project as insurance
against political risks in African countries will only be available if the country is participating in the
project. Covered risks will include transit risk for goods being transported through participating countries,
thereby facilitating trade to and from land-locked countries. The inclusion of transit risk will make regional
transport corridors for trade more reliable.
The project will have major spin-offs through its partnership with private risk insurers and by facilitating
the availability of comprehensive cover (political and conmmercial risk insurance). First, the capacity to
cover political risks will be increased through a leveraging arrangement between the implementing agency
and a syndicate of private risk insurers. This will not only allow the project to cover larger volumes of
trade, but will also allow syndicate members to become more familiar and comfortable with taking risk in
participating countries. Second, having a reliable mechanism to cover political risk, which is harder to
evaluate and mitigate than commercial risk for the private market, will allow the private market to take
commercial risk in these countries. The insurance broker that is assisting the project team design the
insurance facility has put forward a proposal to attract a large international credit insurer to the region, that
would enter into a joint venture agreement with a local partner(s). Based on this proposal, ATI is about to
sign a Memorandum of Understanding on a strategic partnership with one of the largest credit insurance
companies in the world. The credit insurer would provide comprehensive cover and could reinsure its
political risk under the project. Making comprehensive cover available for trade in the region will amplify
and solidify the project benefits listed above.
The main target population of the project would be commercial firms in participating countries involved in
trade, and the population benefiting from increased employment and production.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional set-up of the project is critical to its success as the insurance mechanism must be credible
in the eyes of potential policy holders. The implementing agency must be credible in the eyes of the market,
and must protect the interests of all participating countries.
After exploring different alternatives for the implementing agency's legal set-up, participating countries,
COMESA and the Bank decided that creating a multilateral institution was the best way to ensure that the
agency implementing the RTFP would be: (i) highly credible, both from a perspective of legal structure and
-9-



in the sense of being free from historical or political baggage; (ii) an agency of the highest professional
standards, which would be dedicated solely to the important task of implementing the RTFP, a novel
facility for the region; and (iii) open to participation by all African countries, without creating sensitivities
between the various regional and sub-regional organizations in the region. Therefore, to implement the
project, participating countries have created a multilateral agency, the African Trade Insurance Agency
(ATI). At the COMESA Summit of Heads of State and Government on May 18, 2000, the Agreement
Establishing the African Trade Insurance Agency was adopted by the Heads of State and recommended for
signature. Burundi, Kenya, and Uganda signed the agreement at the Summit, and Malawi, Rwanda and
Zambia have signed since then. In addition, these six countries have ratified the agreement and paid their
initial capital contribution to ATI, thus becoming ATI's founding members. Consequently, the Agreement
Establishing ATI came into effect on January 20, 2001 and ATI's General Assembly held its first meeting
in Nairobi, Kenya on February 19 and 20, 2001. The Secretary General of the Organization of African
Unity (OAU) is the depositary of the Agreement Establishing ATI, and has delegated his responsibility as
depositary to the Secretary General of COMESA. ATI's Board of Directors, which will hold its first
meeting on March 26 and 27, 2001, will always have 50 percent private sector representation. ATI is
autonomous and enjoys administrative and financial independence (See Annex 2 for more details on ATI's
structure and operations).
ATI would manage the facility according to a detailed Operations Manual which spells out the criteria for
determining the eligibility of applications, the form of insurance contracts, and the procedures for issuing
insurance policies.  The Operations Manual was agreed at negotiations between the respective
govemments, IDA, and the private insurers, and cannot be altered without the approval of ATI's Board of
Directors, IDA, and the insurers. It will play an important role in building the credibility of ATI. It will be
available to the public, and particularly potential policy holders, to demonstrate that the rules governing the
facility are fair and transparent.
There are a number of insurance structures that ATI will be able to use in order to provide political risk
insurance to risk takers whether they be a supplier, financial institution or other party financing, insuring or
guaranteeing an eligible transaction. Under all structures, eligible transactions would include exports from
one participating country to another; exports from a participating country to a third country; and imports of
goods or capital from anywhere to a participating country as long as the import is related to a productive
activity. The insurance would cover a range of political risks, including traditional political risks: war and
civil disturbance, currency inconvertibility, inability to transfer currency, expropriation, and government
interference in covered transactions such as arbitrary removal of import/export licenses, seizure of goods
(please go to Annex 2 for a detailed description of these risks).
The preferable and most likely structure will involve a syndicate of private risk insurers with whom ATI
has agreed in principle on a partnership agreement to leverage the IDA funds allocated to the project. It is
possible that the private insurers may not be willing to take risk in some of the countries that will
participate in the project. This could be the case in countries where there is still a high risk of civil
disturbance, In such cases, ATI would use a non-leveraged structure that would nevertheless involve the
insurers participation to issue policies on a fully cash-backed basis. A third structure has been envisaged
that would allow for risk sharing among participating countries, but this structure would not be used until
the facility had been functioning smoothly for some time, and unless participating countries agreed that
risk-sharing was necessary and desirable in order to expand the facility's capacity and enhance regional
cooperation.
IDA would extend a credit to each country participating in the RTFP. The size of the IDA credit would
depend on the expected demand for insurance in and the size of the economy of each country. The IDA
- 10-



credit would serve as financial back-up to each insurance policy. It is important to note that the IDA funds
contributed by a participating country remain in the ownership of that country and the Agency's role is
confined to administering these funds according to agreed criteria. Thus, unless a participating country
agrees to join the Callable Funds Facility (see below), the IDA funds contributed by one country are at risk
only for political risk in with that country.
A.    Leveraged Structure
Under a leveraged structure ATI works in cooperation with a syndicate of private risk insurers to issue
insurance policies. The insurance policies are issued either directly by the syndicate of insurers, or by ATI
in the name of the private risk insurers. Each country participating in the project would place the IDA [and
donor] funds allocated to it for the project in a separate trust account and the funds could be withdrawn
from this account only to pay valid claims, and only by the private insurers. A country's funds, as well as
the leverage ratio for that country, as agreed with the syndicate, would determine the maximum amount of
insurance available to cover transactions involving that country (both import and export transactions). For
example, if a country received a US$10 million IDA credit and an equivalent amount in donor funds, and
the leverage ratio agreed with the syndicate was 3 to 1, a maximum of US$60 million in insurance policies
could be issued (US$20 million times 3). Leverage ratios may vary among participating countries
depending on the outcome of negotiations with the syndicate. Having a comparatively lower leverage ratio
may be a way of including a higher risk country (e.g. a country with a high risk of civil disturbance) in the
leveraged structure.
The funds in trust would earn interest, which would be used to defray the cost of operating the facility and
to build up reserves.
The risk sharing mechanism between ATI, the countries and the syndicate would be as follows: Claims
would be paid out of the trust account until the funds in the account were exhausted at which point the
syndicate would be liable for additional claims. It should be stressed that it is not expected that claims
would reach a level where a country's funds would be completely used to pay claims unless a disaster
scenario (such as a full-fledged civil war) occurred. In addition, for claims occurring as a result of
government actions, i.e. all covered risks other than war and civil disturbance, the Bank's Credit
Agreement with the country would require the government to replenish the trust account. This requirement
strengthens the disincentive for the government to cause claims.
An insurance brokerage firm was selected by COMESA and the founding members of ATI during project
preparation, which assisted the project team design the insurance facility, negotiate a risk-sharing
agreement with private risk insurers and develop the detailed implementation arrangements. At this stage in
the negotiations with private insurers, it is expected that leveraging will be possible in all participating
countries. Tentative leverage ratios by country are: Burundi - 2; Kenya - 3; Malawi - 4; Rwanda - 2;
Tanzania - 4; Uganda - 4; Zambia - 3. See Annex 2 for a more detailed description of the leveraged
structure, including premium sharing arrangements between the countries, ATI and the private insurers,
allocation of responsibilities among ATI, its broker, and the private insurers, claims resolution
mechanisms, etc.
B.    Non-leveraged Structure
The non-leveraged structure would be used for political risk cover in countries where the private insurance
market is no longer willing to take risk and leverage the IDA funds.
- 11 -



The same structure as under a leveraged structure would be used except that the policies issued, either by
the syndicate, or by ATI in the name of the private insurers, would always be fully cash-backed by the
funds in the trust account.
Similarly to a leveraged structure, the government would have to replenish the trust account in case of a
claim payment resulting from a risk other than war or civil disturbance.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A) Regional Facility vs. Independent Country Facilities
The project team considered creating independent insurance facilities in individual countries such as those
currently operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, rather than a regional facility with a common
agency. This alternative was rejected for a number of reasons explained below.
Improving Africa 's reputation
Individual country facilities would not be effective in sending a clear message to the private sector that
most African countries are now liberalizing their policies and regulatory environment to promote private
sector development and foster trade and investment both within the region and with the rest of the world.
The fact that a number of countries are willing to join forces to improve access to financing for productive
activity makes a strong statement regarding the governments' commitment to reforrn. A piecemeal
approach with facilities opening up in different countries at different times could not create the same level
of awareness among private sector players. As a result, a regional agency could significantly reduce the
legacy of the past regarding the perception of Africa as too risky a place to do business. It would lower the
level of risk in a meaningful group of countries in Africa in one go, making it worthwhile for foreign
enterprises and banks to explore business opportunities in the region. This element should be strongly
reinforced by an aggressive marketing campaign aimed at improving Africa's reputation as a place to do
business. Such a campaign would not have credibility other than at the regional level.
- 12 -



Economies of Scale
A country-by-country approach would not enable economies of scale in terms of operating costs as each
country would have to set up its own agency. Combining resources to create a regional agency will move
ATI one step further from the governments which control most of the risks which are covered, and will thus
enhance the credibility of ATI with the private sector. In addition, feasibility studies for several
country-based export credit agencies have shown that, with few exceptions, the necessary underwriting
skills required for covering export to third countries could not be maintained in a single country scheme in
Sub Saharan Africa without heavy subsidies necessary because of insufficient economies of scale.
Peer Pressure to maintain good policies
A regional facility would create incentives for participating countries to take measures before claims were
made if they deemed that one country's policies were going off-track. Governments would use their
influence in the "stray" country to convince that country to maintain its commitment of non-intervention in
private sector transactions. A regional facility thus has the ability to mitigate risks, a characteristic which
is lost in a country-by-country approach.
B) IDA's role
The project team also considered whether there would be agencies other than IDA which would be better
placed to support this project.
First, within the World Bank Group, the project is designed to be fully complementary to Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) coverage by providing cover only for those short- and medium-term
trade transactions that MIGA cannot support according to its convention. The project was prepared in
close cooperation with MIGA as demonstrated by the secondment of a MIGA staff member to the
COMESA project team during project preparation.
The fact that IDA's clients are the governments of participating countries enables the project to credibly
mitigate the risks being covered, as governments causing risks would suffer a financial loss if claims were
paid using IDA credit funds placed on trust. IDA has an ongoing policy dialogue with these governments
and can discuss potential government performance risks through this dialogue. IFC does not have this
direct relationship with the governments which is vital for the risk-mitigating feature of project.
Outside the World Bank Group, consultations with both the private sector and official agencies revealed
that there is no other agency which has both the capacity and the mandate to move into this area as leader
and trigger others to follow. These consultations also allowed the project design to allow for as much
cooperation as possible with private sector providers of similar insurance products (see "Institutional and
implementation arrangements" above, "Sustainability" below, and Annex 2). Regional institutions, export
credit agencies and the private insurance market are convinced that the proposed mechanism for the RTFP
--an IDA-enhanced Government commitment-- is the strongest possible mechanism to address the risk
perception associated with Africa as a region (see also the discussion of the value added of Bank support in
D5), so much so that they have indicated a strong interest to work with the facility with the objective of
expanding its capacity.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).Not applicable
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (P)    Objectie (DO)
Other development agencies
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project design incorporates lessons learned from projects which established political risk
guarantee/insurance facilities (PGFs) in the Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA). Three PGFs have
been implemented so far, in Moldova, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Albania. The main lesson leamed
from preparing and supervising these projects is to root project preparation firmly in a demand survey of
the target market, obtain clear indications of demand, and build on the survey's results and subsequent
contacts with the private sector to develop a strong database of prospective clients for the facility. In
addition, experience with the Bosnia facility shows that the PGF concept has tremendous scope for
attracting other risk takers, especially private political risk and credit insurers.
The proposed leveraging mechanism with private insurers has been used in a single country scheme in
Bosnia and Herzegovina under the World Bank-financed Emergency Industrial Re-Start Project. A key
feature of this mechanism is that it achieves an efficient risk distribution by allocating most of the risk to
the party that has the strongest ability to mitigate the risk, in this case the governments of participating
countries. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, this mechanism has demonstrated its effectiveness in attracting the
private market in a country where it was either off-cover or offering patchy cover.
Lessons have been learned in Africa from previous efforts aimed at increasing capital flows by offering
political risk cover. Entities which have the authority to provide political risk insurance in the region
already exist, such as PTA Bank and Afreximbank. However, their mainstream business is not the
assumption of pure political risk, but rather acting as a lending institution, and they have in fact indicated
that, in some situations, they would like to reinsure their political risk with ATI.
Previous experience thus indicates that, for a political risk insurance scheme to be successful, it needs not
only to protect risk-takers, but also to involve players which have the ability to mitigate the risks which it
covers.
- 14 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The RTFP results from an initiative taken by COMESA in the context of the reconsideration of the role of
the COMESA Clearing House. As a result, a group of countries --Burundi, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda,
Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia-- approached the Bank to request support for the creation of the proposed
facility. These countries understand that their participation would make them the ultimate risk takers in the
scheme and accept this concept. The commitment of these countries is strongly corroborated by the fact
that they have formed Technical Advisory Committees (TAC) - which include both public and private
sector participants - for the preparation of the project. These TACs have participated in five Technical
Advisory Group (TAG) meetings to discuss key aspects of project design, including the agreement to
establish a regional multilateral agency, the facility's Operations Manual, the results of the demand survey,
proposed arbitration and claims resolution mechanisms, etc. In addition, Project Preparation Facilities
(PPFs) have been approved for all participating countries. Prior to adding the proposed credits to the
lending program for each of the countries, this decision was reviewed with the respective borrowers and the
relevant country teams. The commitment described directly above, as well as the relevance of the project's
development objectives in view of the CAS goals for these countries were the main criteria used in deciding
to proceed.
The COMESA Heads of State and Government adopted the Agreement Establishing the African Trade
Insurance Agency at the COMESA Summit of Heads of State and Government on May 18, 2000, thereby
taking a key step in creating ATI. In addition, three countries (Burundi, Kenya and Uganda) signed the
Agreement at the Summit, and by January 2001, three more countries had signed (Malawi, Rwanda and
Zambia).   These six countries subsequently ratified the Agreement and paid their initial capital
contribution to ATI, thus becoming ATI's founding members at the first meeting of ATI's General
Assembly on February 19 and 20 in Nairobi, Kenya. The seventh participating country (Tanzania) has
confirmed its commitment to join ATI and is in the process of completing the procedures required to do so.
Technical assistance and institutional support for the creation of ATI was financed by the European Union,
the Government of Japan, as well as the World Bank's Institutional Development Fund.
It is anticipated that other African countries will join at a later stage. New participants would be welcomed
by the initial group, since their participation would reinforce the effectiveness of the project. In this
context, it should be stressed that countries could decide to become members of ATI without requesting
IDA support, since ATI is an agency set up by African States. If any countries were to join ATI and
request IDA support similar to the proposed credits to the first seven countries, such requests would be
reviewed within the context of the applicable Country Assistance Strategy and submitted to the Board for
separate consideration.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
From discussions with key stakeholders, it appears that effective political risk cover requires a partner such
as the World Bank, that has the ability not only to cover the political risks but also to mitigate these risks
by its participation in the scheme. If a government takes action that could result in a claim, the Bank can
use its ongoing policy dialogue with the government to convince the government to fix the problem before
an actual claim is filed. The Bank's participation in the scheme also adds credibility to the ATI: the Bank
would play a key role in establishing procedures and rules for issuing insurance, and it would supervise
ATI's operations, thus ensuring transparency and consistency.
IDA's participation will be particularly valuable as IDA funds will be leveraged thanks to: (i) the
participation of the private political risk insurance market which will increase its business in the region
thanks to this project; and (ii) the revolving nature of the facility which allows funds to support several
- 15 -



rounds of transactions. Discussions with the private insurance market and export credit agencies have
confirmed that they would not perceive this project as competing with their business, but rather as a facility
that could increase their involvement in Southern and Eastern Africa because of the Bank's risk mitigating
ability explained above.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Since the insurance facility would not cover commercial risks, the sale of insurance covering all
transactions, other than those involving exports to a non-participating country, would be demand-driven,
i.e. they would be granted on a first-come first-serve basis so long as applicants complied with the general
eligibility criteria on matters such as the environment, and the market would select the transactions to be
insured. No further economic analysis would be required for these transactions.
Where the political risk being assumed is not in a participating country, i.e. for transactions involving
exports to a non-participating country, a more traditional approach to the assumption of political risk by
ATI would be required in order to protect the capital and reserves of participating countries. This would
entail setting country limits and an element of "underwriting" or risk assessment which requires specialized
skills and training. ATI would receive technical assistance in the early stages of its development to help
staff acquire and develop these skills as quickly as possible and the facility's Operations Manual would
describe the risk assessment methodology to be applied by ATI when covering export transactions.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
(1) Operating Expenses of ATI
Fixed costs of ATI will consist of salary payments to the managing director and the staff, including
underwriting, finance and administration, legal, marketing, economics and accounting personnel, and
support staff. There will also be rental expenses for office space and office maintenance costs. Capital
expenses are limited to motor vehicles, computers, and other office equipment. Variable costs will consist
principally of brokers' fees and other fees related to the risk sharing arrangements with private insurers that
ATI may enter into.
(2) Income of ATU
It is proposed that ATI's start-up operating expenses during its two first years of operation be financed by
IDA as part of this project. A technical assistance component is included and involves an IDA credit to
ATI. This arrangement will allow ATI a comfortable period to get organized and establish itself as an
independent, self-financing agency. ATI's income would come from premium income charged to policy
holders, which after the initial period should be enough to cover operating expenses. A matrix of rates for
insurance will be developed and included in the Operations Manual, which will take account of the tenor of
the insurance policy, the type of transaction, and the presence of a local bank guarantee of the obligation
covered by the political risk insurance. Any income in excess of operating expenses would be available to
build up reserves and for additional insurance capacity. Interest on funds lodged in the trust account and
interest thereon will be available for ATI's expenses, if needed, and to build up reserves and additional
capacity.
- 16 -



(3) Financial controls
The participating countries authorize the syndicate of insurers to draw IDA credit funds to pay valid
claims. Interest income on funds lodged in trust can be withdrawn for ATI's operational expenses, but only
with IDA's approval. Fees from issuing insurance policies are available at any time for operational
expenses.
(4) Stop-loss provision
hn order to limit the potential for large losses due to claims, IDA will have the right to suspend issuance of
new insurance policies in a country where a claim occurs, where there would be a serious reversal of
policies affecting the covered risks, or where war or civil disturbance breaks out. This will not prevent
claims under policies already issued, but it would stop ATI from "insuring a burning house." Because a
suspension could result in the Government not having access to the funds remaining in trust upon
expiration of the facility, this suspension right will create a strong disincentive for the Government to cause
claims. (Please see Annex 2 for a more detailed discussion on this issue.)
Fiscal Impact:
In the initial stages of the project, apart from the obligation to service the IDA credit, and the payment of
the initial capital contribution to ATI, there are no implications for the participating countries' budgets.
Except for the start-up period, ATI's operating expenses will be covered by income from issuing insurance
policies and interest on IDA and donor funds. However, as a consequence of their obligation to reimburse
the trust account in case of a claim caused by a government performance risk, countries would take a
contingent liability equal to their participation in the facility. It is important to note that this contingent
liability is an essential element in the incentive structure created by the project, as it constitutes a deterrent
to government actions which might cause claims.
3. Technical:
The function of ATI is to provide insurance against what are generically known as "political risks." These
risks would be specified in a insurance policy contract, using definitions that are well-established in the
market. These risks would include the following:
- inability to convert local currency;
- inablity to transfer local currency;
- expropriation or imposition of a moratorium by the Government of the debtor country on the right of a
policy holder to receive payment from a debtor;
- interference by the Government of a debtor country in the operations of a debtor causing the debtor to
default in performance of its financial obligation to a policy holder;
- seizure by the government of a debtor country of goods;
- imposition by the government of a debtor country of import or export bans on goods;
- retro-active or discriminatory imposition by the government of a debtor country of new or increased
import or export taxes on goods;
- war;
- civil commotion;
- embargo;
- 17 -



Diversion of voyage as a consequence of any of these risks, as well as the same risks occurring
Nvhile goods are in transit in a participating country, will also be covered. A more detailed
description of the covered risks can be found in Annex 2.
4. Institutional:
The quality and transparency of the management of the project by ATI will be crucial for the
credibilitv of the facility. This is addressed by a detailed Operations Manual, which leaves very
little discretioniary decision-making power vithi ATI's staff. Exceptions to the rules set forth in
the Operations Manual will require the consent of both ATI's Board and IDA. These measures,
together with the financial credibility provided by the involvement of a syndicate of insurers,
have proven to add up to an instrument with strong credibility in the market place other countries,
such as Bosnia and Herzegovina where there is a Bank-finaniced project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
ATI's staff will be selected only on professional experience and merit. The selection of ATI's
Managing Director is being carried out by a Selection Committee, which is comprised of the
COMESA Secretary General in his capacity of Interim Managing Director of ATI, the Chairman
of ATI's Board of Directors, a World Bank representative, and a private sector member of ATI's
Board of Directors. Once selected, the Managing Director will submit his/her choice of
candidates for ATI's two managers, responsible for Finance and  Administration and
Underwriting/Operations respectively, as well as ATI's Chief Counsel. to the Board of Directors
for approval.
4.2 Project management:
To ensure quality project management from the start, insuranice policies issued by ATI will be
subject to prior reviewv bv IDA until sufficient experience in applying the Operations Manual has
becen built up. Finally, to give policy holders comfort even in a worst case scenario, the insurance
contracts will be subject to arbitration outside the region and subject to English law.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project will involve a limited amount of procurement of goods and services from IDA funds,
under the technical assistance component. ATI wvill purchase office and information technology
equipmenit, vehicles, and consulting services with this credit. See aunex 6 for more details.
4.4 Finaincial management issues:
ATI has hired an Administrationi and Finance Manager to whiom ATI's accountant will report.
The accountanut's main responsibilities will include:
* Maintaining a reliable, transparent and effective accounting system;
* Producing quarterly and year-end accounts, in conformity with International Accounting
Standards;
* Preparing an ainual report for public distribution;
. Preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) on a quarterly basis and submitting them to
IDA;
* Managing cash and investments for the Agency (treasury function);
* Helping to produce agency-wide budgets;
* Helping the member countries manage the financial accotnting side of the IDA credits, and
maintaining records of the IDA loans'
situation in each of the borrowing countries.
18



ATI is establishing a sound Financial Management System (FMS) which will facilitate the
production of accurate financial reports for the Borrowers, the World Bank and ATI on a regular
basis. A detailed financial managemenit manual has been prepared and is part of the Operations
manual whicih was agreed upon at negotiations. An action plan for implementing the FMS was
also agreed uponi (see Annex 6). The financial management manual was formally adopted by
ATI's General Assembly at its first meeting.
The FMS inclutdes the planniing, internal controls, accounting, financial reporting and audit
arrangements relatinig to the project and will be maintained by ATI.  Periodic Project
Management Reports (PMR) will be used as the basis for financial reporting to IDA and will
cover the use of IDA funds for the sevcn country credits as well as the credit to ATI.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
The sub-projects being supported by the project are demand driven and therefore are not yet
knowvn. Therefore the environmental category of the project is "Financial Intermediary" (FI).
The facility's Operations Manuial takes this into accounit and allows for different standards to
apply for projects of different enviroinmental risk categories (low, intermediate and high risk).
As an Fl project. the Operational Manual clearly articulates that, before approving a sub-
project. ATI mutst verify tlhroughl its oWvn staff, outside experts, or existing environmental
institutions, that the sub-project meets the environmental requirements of appropriate national
guidelines and procedures, and is consistent with OP/BP/GP/4. 10 and other applicable
environmental safe guard policies of the Bank.
The project's environmental guidclines reflect the fact that the political risk insurance that will
be made available under the project will cover mostly short-term trade transactions, and that
quick responses to applicants will be key to thle success of the project.  Therefore the
environmental screening procedures are as streamlined as possible, particularly when the
projects are expected to have minimal environmental impact.
The Operations Mantual includes stanudard guidelinies and procedures for all participating
countries and provides detailed guidance for ATI's staff. The manual includes standard
environmental screening categories, descriptions of the types of projects that would fall under
each category, and environmental screening forms to be filled out by applicants and ATI. This
part of the Operations Manual is available to the public, including in the World Bank Info
Shop.
The manual clearly establislhes the steps that are to be taken by applicants when applying for
political risk insuranice regarding the provision of environmental information on the project,
and explains the applicants' responsibility to provide truthful and accurate information in their
application(s) (at the risk of being denied coverage if untruthful information is found to have
been provided). It also describes how ATI will assess the potential environmental impact of,
anid environmenitally screen projects applying for insurance using the information provided by
the applicant.
In addition, the manual containis up-to-date information on national environmental laws,
regulations and policies. specifies national requirements and circumstances, and includes an
interim  policy framework based oni World Bank standards for countries where national
requirements are not acceptable. It also lists the ministries/agencies with which ATI will need
19



to communicate to obtain inforimiation on the projects/companies applying for political risk
insurance (status of their licenses to operate, etc.), and contains a list of banned import goods.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequatc? N/A
53 For Category A and B projects. timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and whiich groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environmenti? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomiies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are kcy stakeholders participating in the project?
The primavry beneficiaries of the project are (i) enterprises in the region that will receive inputs,
capital goods and working capital to engage in productive activity and produce goods for
export. and local banks, who will be in a position to expand their business with foreign banks;
and (ii) the population of participating countries that will benefit from the economic growth,
job creation. and as a consequence, poverty reduction, resulting from project implementation.
To ensure that the interests of these groups were thoroughily taken into account during project
desigin and preparation, each prospective participating couitry formed a TAC   which
comprises both public sector, private sector, and financial sector membership. The TACs have
been constilted in a serics of workshiops in each country, and during five Technical Advisory
Group meetings. The input from the TACs ranged from couitry specific comments (e.g. the
Bumrndi embargo) to various detailed technicat suggestions to improve the project design. The
TACs provided important input on the creation ATI, its legal status, the selection and
qualifications of its managing director, and its organizational set-up.
In addition, the TACs conducted demand surveys of local enterprises to obtain feedback from
a wider group of beneficiaries than those represented in the TACs. The analysis of responses
from enterprises from Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania and Zambia shows that (i) covering imports
inlto the region will initially be the main focus of the facility as enterprises in the region
genieralIy import significantly more than they export, this finding confonrs with established
pattems of economic growth and development where companies must first import capital
goods and inputs for production before being able to develop their export markets; (ii)
companies often import capital goods and raw materials from outside the region and export to
buyers in the region, (iii) political risk is a barrier to increased intra-regional trade which the
project will address: and (iv) combiniing political risk insurance with commercial risk
insurance will significantl ernhance the project's impact on intra-regional trade as credit/non-
pavlilent risk is a major concern for exporters in the region selling to neighboring countries.
20



A regional survey of commercial banks finanicing trade transactions in participating countries
was also conducted by the project team  in cooperation  with the COMESA  Bankers'
Association, The restults of this survey corroborate the results of the foreign bank survey, and
slhow that political risk is a key impediment to increased trade witlhin Sub-Saharan Africa, and
between the participating countries anid non-African countries. The results further confirn the
additional benefits of introdtucing comprehensive credit insurance to the region, so as to make
available commercial risk insurance as well as political risk insuranice. All but one respondent
out of fifteen stated that foreign banks would offer better financing terms for imports if they
had access to the proposed political risk facility. All but two respondents believe that they will
offer better temis to their exporting clients if they have access to political risk insurance.
The TACs feedback received during these discussiois, and the results of the surveys have been
r eflected in the design of the project.
6.3 How does the projcct involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or otlher civil society
organizations?
The other key stakeholders are the suppliers of goods and/or credit outside Africa, which could
bc exporting enterpriscs or financial institutions, and the private political risk insurers and
official export credit agencies active in Africa. Tlhese stakeholders were consulted throughout
project preparation by way of individual meetinigs (in case of the export credit agencies with
the Berne Union and directly wvith Afrexim Bank), and by sending theml a discussion paper for
commllents. Many helpful comments wvere received, providing important technical input and
gcnerally giving strong support for the proposed project design.
Consultations with the Bernie Union have led to a proposal from the Bemne Union that ATI
obtain observer status in meetings for nascent export credit agencies organized by the Berne
Ulnion as soon as ATI is legally in existence and hias senior staff, pending furtlher consideration
of its status.
Fuirthermore a survev of interniationial banks was conducted, to (i) establish whether there
woould be demand for insurance against political risk from such banks, and (ii) get feedback on
the facilitv's design to better adapt it to the need of the international financial sector. The
results of the survev confirmed that foreign banks Nvill use the facility. The survey's main
findinigs include: (i) there is ample demanid for the proposed facility, particularly from current
traditional lenders to the target market. Of the 72 institutions surveyed, 32 responded, which is
an exceptionally hlighi response rate of 44 percent; (ii) the current market of the respondents
closely matches the proposed market for the facility; (iii) political risk was cited as the risk
type most likely to result in banks reducing business in or withdrawing from the target market;
and (iv) the marketing of the facility Nvill be key to its success, as will be the operational
structure of the insurance policy. Furtlher consultationis with respondents after the completion
of the survev have demonstrated the strong interest international banks have in the project, and
the project's relevajice in attracting trade finanicing to the region.
Feedback from surveyed banks will assist ATI market the facility to foreigii banks alnd address their
specific conicerns. Thie firsi imarkelinig event geared towards thlese baniks will be a road-show to visit
intcniational banks that have expressed iitcrest in the facility sooin after the appointmenit of ATI's
managing director.
6.4 Wlhat institutional arrangements have beeii provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
N/A
6..5 How wvill the project monitor performance in terms of social developmiienit outcomes?
N/A
21



7. Safeguard Policies:
7 1 Do anv of the following safeguard policies apply to the project'?
Policy                                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                        No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                         No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)    No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
Not applicable
22



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims directly at allowing the private sector to build business links on a fully commercial basis.
If the underlying transactions are successful, this will help build a viable private sector which is not
dependent on official assistance or special programs. The fact that the project will be based on market
selection will ensure that the result is fully sustainable.
The participation of the private political risk insurance market under the leveraged structure will greatly
enhance the sustainability of the project. In the better performing countries, it is expected that, after the
facility is closed, the private market will take over ATI's role. In these countries, there will have been a
track record built up over the life of the project of acceptable levels of political risk to allow business to
proceed without the support of the project.
Discussions with private insurers indicate that the RTFP and the private market's involvement in the
political risk insurance facility will lead to their involvement in covering commercial risk in the region. The
broker hired by COMESA and the founding member states has put forward a proposal to make available
commercial risk insurance for trade transaction in parallel with the project's political risk insurance. It
would involve a commercial arrangement with a major international insurer specializing in trade credit
insurance. To enter the Southem and Eastern Africa market, the insurer would most likely create a joint
venture with a local partner(s), such as a local insurance company or commercial bank. ATI and the joint
venture could then enter into a reinsurance agreement whereby the joint venture/trade credit insurance
company would issue comprehensive (political and commercial risk) policies and ATI would reinsure the
joint venture against political risks. ATI is about to sign a Memorandum of Understanding on the
development of such a joint venture with one of the largest credit insurance companies in the world. The
experience with private insurers in Bosnia and Herzegovina has demonstrated that (i) the market is used to,
and more likely to purchase, comprehensive cover rather than political risk-only cover and (ii) when private
insurers are involved in and aware of the Bank-financed political risk insurance facility, they are willing to
explore opportunities to cover commercial risks as well. The creation of a commercially based trade credit
insurer in the region would strongly contribute to the sustainability as well as the development impact of
the RTFP.
-23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Low credibility of ATI as a new            S         New multilateral agency, endorsed by all
institution                                          participating countries;
Partnership with a syndicate of private risk
insurers;
Expert technical assistance;
Operations Manual with as little discretionary
authority as possible;
Complete transparency of all procedures;
Election of key personnel on merit.
From Components to Outputs
Security Risks (renewed war/civil          S         IDA will have the nght to suspend the issuance
disturbance in some participating                    of new insurance policies in countries that are
countries)                                           experiencing (or are expected to experience)
political turmoil.
Low demand                                 M         Demand surveys conducted both inside and
outside the region which confirmed demand and
provided input for project design;
Ongoing marketing campaign before and during
implementation;
Feedback loops from the market during
implementation to modify project design when
warranted by changing needs and circumstances.
Availability of comprehensive risk cover from a
private credit insurer.
Slowing down or backtracking in policy     M         IDA's ongoing policy dialogue with the
and institutional reforms                            governments.
Slow-down or breakdown in regional         M         IDA's ongoing policy dialogue with the
cooperation                                          governments.
High level of claims                       M         Financial incentives to stimulate responsible
behavior of participating countries;
Bank's ongoing policy dialogue with the
governments;
"Notice of potential loss" process which allows
to avoid potential claims by involving high leve.i
government officials.
Overall Risk Rating                        5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 24 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N.A.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
For a participating country's IDA credit to become effective, the country must (i) sign and ratify the Agreement
Establishing ATI, (ii) pay its initial capital contribution of US$100,000 to ATI, and (iii) sign the Participation
Agreement with ATI, and ATI must establish a Security Trust Account and Income Account for that country.
In addition for Kenya, the capital city of which has been selected by the General Assembly of ATI as ATI's
permanent headquarter seat, the signature and ratification of a Headquarters Agreement with ATI will be an
effectiveness condition.
2. Other [classifyt according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
N.A.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
ER 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Onno Ruhl                          Demba Ba                            Yaw Ansu
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                      Country Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
KyPerformance
I    ~   ofOjctvsIndicators                           Moniitonring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve sustainable and     GDP growth: 7 percent       Economic data               Continued market-oriented
broad-based private        (2001-2011)                                              reforms in participating
sector-led growth to reduce                                                         countries;
poverty                                                                             Regional integration
initiatives are successful;
A reasonable level of
political stability is
maintained in individual
countries and in the region
as a whole.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact             Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Improve access to financing  1. Volume of policies issued 1. ATI reports on insurance  1. The lack of access to
for productive transactions  per country;               activity;                   political risk insurance
and cross-border trade      2. ATI becomes              2. ATI's financial          contrains financing for
self-financing after two    statements;                 productive transactions and
cross-border trade in
years of operation;                                     participating countries
3. On average, one claim or 3. ATI reports on claims;   2. Demand for political risk
less resulting from a                                   insurance is high enough that
government performance                                  ATI's income from selling
risk per country, per year;                            insurance will cover its
4. ATI enters into a        4. Signing of agreement     operating costs and allow ATI
leveraging partnership with  with private risk insurers.  to build reserves;
private risk insurers for                               3. Governments will not
political risk cover.                                   interfere in private sector
transactions arbitrarily, and
cause claims;
4. Private insurers are willing
to cover political risk in
participating countries, in
partnership with ATI.
- 26 -



11411ra-' ~yt     *4".  A2 &t 4      Ev$uation    CrItJca Assumptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
See above
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$105.00 million
Political risk insurance facilities:
The Regional Trade Facilitation Project (RTFP) will establish a regional political risk insurance facility
(the facility) that will be implemented and managed by a multilateral agency (the African Trade Insurance
Agency, ATI) created for this purpose.
The IDA credits to each participating country would provide capital for the facility. (See section on
Development Credit Agreements below.) An additional IDA credit would be extended to finance the
operating costs of ATI for the first two years of operation.
The facility will cover productive activity involving cross-border trade. The project is designed to be fully
complementary to MIGA coverage by providing cover only for those short- and medium-term trade
transactions that MIGA cannot support according to its convention. Both imports into and exports from
participating countries will have access to cover. In other to encourage other African countries to join the
facility, exports within Africa will only be covered if the importing country is also participating in the
project.
The project has been designed so that a wide variety of trade transactions and financing structures can be
covered under the facility. If applicants need cover for a type of transaction that was not foreseen during
project preparation, the design is flexible enough to accommodate new types of transactions. Transactions
for which standard documentation already exists include:
*      Sale of goods, usually on credit terns
*      Letter of credit confirmation
*      Financial lease
*      Operational lease
*      Import/export of capital equipment for use by an insured in carrying on its business
*      Loans by foreign lenders
*      Loans by local lenders
*      Contract/performance bonds
*      Import/export of goods to stock for sale
*      Import/export of goods for processing
*      Services
- 28 -



Covered Risks
The political/non-commercial risks that the facility will cover include:
Inability to convert and/or transfer currency: This coverage would include protection against the inability
of a person owing an insured obligation to obtain in the marketplace of the country, and/or transfer out of
the country, the foreign currency required to discharge that obligation due to the lack of hard currency
available in the debtor country. However, this coverage would not grant the policyholder the right to
convert local currency into foreign exchange at a guaranteed future exchange rate.
Imposition of Exchange Controls: This would include coverage for losses arising from the introduction
by the government of any restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign exchange or the
transfer of foreign exchange out of the country.
Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on Import and Export: This would include coverage for losses
arising from the cancellation or non-renewal by the government of an import or export license or the
imposition by the government of restrictions on the import into the country of working capital inputs or the
export from the country of outputs which were not previously subject to restriction.
Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes: This would include losses arising from the imposition
by the government of new or increased taxes, levies or duties relating to the import or the export of goods
identified as part of the covered transaction. It would not cover losses as a consequence of the imposition
of or increases in general taxes such as VAT and corporate or personal income tax.
Expropriation: This would cover losses caused by expropriation by the government of sums due under an
insured transaction, or of funds held on deposit in the country for payment of such sums, or property or
assets of the local enterprise involved in the transaction or interference in the operations or management of
an entity owing an insured obligation, such as to prevent payment of the insured obligation.
Seizure of Goods, Prevention of Sale, or Prevention of Export: This would include losses arising from the
taking and holding of inputs or outputs by the government for reasons other than ensuring public health,
safety, welfare and protection of the environment.
Interference with the Carriage of Goods: This would include coverage against interference by the
government with carriage or storage of the goods involved in the covered transaction.
War or Civil Disturbance: This would include coverage against losses arising from war or civil
disturbance in the country. Other types offorce majeure -- e.g., flood, drought, other natural disasters,
war in neighboring transit countries, etc. -- would not be covered.
Embargo: This would include an embargo or any other sanction imposed by a group of countries or by the
Security Council of the United Nations pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Diversion of voyage as a consequence of any of these risks, as well as the same risks occurring while goods
- 29 -



are in transit in a participating country, will also be covered.
The facility does not cover losses arising from the failure of the commercial venture or the default or bad
faith by either party.
The operating rules of the facility are set out in a detailed Operations Manual that has been agreed at
negotiations between IDA, all participating countries and ATI. The key features of how the facility will be
run follow.
The IDA credit, and donor funds if available, serve as financial back-up to each insurance policy. At least
initially, each country will have its own IDA credit and donor funds, which would be disbursed into
separate accounts belonging to that country.
ATI will implement the facility in cooperation with a syndicate of private risk insurers (the insurer), and be
assisted by a facility broker. The agreements between ATI, the insurer and the facility broker define how
the facility works.
A. Leveraged and non-leveragedfacility
The insurance policies are issued either directly by the syndicate of insurers, or by ATI in the name of the
private risk insurers. Each country participating in the project will place the IDA and donor funds
allocated to it for the project in a separate trust account. The funds can be withdrawn from this account
only to pay valid claims, and only by the private insurers. A country's funds, as well as the leverage ratio
for that country, as agreed with the syndicate determines the maximum amount of insurance available to
cover transactions involving that country (both import and export transactions). For example, if a country
receives a US$10 million IDA credit and the equivalent amount in donor funds, and the leverage ratio
agreed with the syndicate is 3 to 1, a maximum of US$60 million in insurance policies can be issued
(US$20 million times 3). In a non-leveraged facility, the leverage ratio is 1, meaning that a US$ 10 million
credit will allow a maximum of US$ 10 million of policies to be issued.
B. Premium
The involvement of the insurer and facility broker, and in some cases, a producing broker (a broker who
introduces a client to ATI), has implications for the allocation of premium income from policies. The
facility broker plays an administrative role whereas the insurer takes risk along with ATI. Once the
aggregate value of policies issued covering risk in a given country exceeds the funds placed on trust by that
country to back up policies, the insurer becomes potentially liable to pay claims, and the formula to share
the premium between ATI and the insurer changes to reflect the change in risk allocation.
C. Policy Issuance Procedures
When an application is sent to ATI the following steps take place:
(1)    ATI reviews the application for completeness using a Checklist and Underwriting Issues that form
part of the Operations Manual;
(2)    ATI completes a Non Binding Indication using Issues for Completion of Insurance Offer Letter
forming part of the Operations Manual as a guide;
(3)    ATI discusses the Non Binding Indication with the applicant and where agreement is reached with
the applicant, amends the Non Binding Application to conform with the agreement;
- 30 -



(4)    ATI's Managing Director, or where necessary, ATI's Board, approve or deny the application;
(5)    If approved, ATI prepares and submits a request to IDA for no-objection;
(6)    ATI submits the amended Non Binding Application to the facility broker with a request addressed
to the insurer to approve the issue of a formal and binding Insurance Offer Letter;
(7)    The facility broker submits the Non Binding Indication and request to the insurer who is bound to
approve providing the transaction complies with the terrns of the Operations Manual;
(8)    ATI issues the Insurance Offer Letter to the applicant after the facility broker provides advice of
approval by insurer, and copies the facility broker;
(9)    The facility broker enters the details of the policy in the facility spreadsheet. The facility
spreadsheet is a document recording the amounts and dates of liabilities assumed under the facility and the
apportionment of premium between ATI, the insurer, the facility broker, and if relevant, the producing
broker;
(10)   The applicant accepts the Insurance Offer and pays the premium to facility broker;
(11)   The facility broker instructs the insurer to issue the policy (or ATI issues the policy in the name of
the insurer) and advises ATI of the acceptance of the Insurance Offer Letter and payment of premium.
(12)   The facility broker administers the premium distribution to the insurer, ATI, and producing broker
where applicable.
An insurance policy comprises a number of documents. Firstly, there is the application form or "proposal"
submitted by the applicant. This, together with the Insurance Offer Letter, which attaches General
Conditions of Insurance comprising the detailed terms and conditions of the arrangement, when accepted by
the applicant, comprise the Insurance Policy. It is an important legal principle that when an insurance
policy is issued, the insurer relies upon the statements made by the applicant in its application. If these
applicant's statements are later determined to be untrue and are material to the risks assumed by ATI and
the insurer, there is no liability to pay a claim.
D. Transparency and Credibility
A number of the operating rules defined in the Operations Manual are designed to enhance credibility of the
facility and ensure transparent decision-making and policy issuance. These rules are reinforced in the
Development Credit Agreements between the participating countries and IDA and the Project Agreement
between ATI and IDA. The Operations Manual will be available to the public allowing all applicants to
know the rules to which ATI is bound.
One important rule is the "first come, first served" rule, which states that applications for policies must be
handled in the order they are received. This avoids preferential treatment of certain applicants over others.
Another key requirement, at least in the first stages of ATI's life, is the "no objection" rule. A policy
cannot be issued unless IDA provides its no objection after reviewing the application and supporting
documentation. This rule ensures that ATI adopts a consistent and objective standard in underwriting
applications for insurance, that only eligible transactions are covered and that all the procedures set out in
- 31 -



the Operations Manual, including, for example, the environmental screening of projects, have been
followed.
ATI's partnership with the insurer and facility broker will increase the credibility of the facility in the eyes
of the market, and will provide an additional safeguard for transparency, as the insurer and facility broker
are involved in the underwriting and approval process.
The General Conditions of Insurance provide for claims procedures. An insured must provide the insurer
and ATI with notice of the occurrence of an event which causes or is likely to cause loss covered by the
guarantee. This is called a Notice of Potential Loss. The insured must then wait 45 days after providing
the Notice of Potential Loss before being able to lodge a formal claim. This cure period gives ATI time to
research the background and make attempts to rectify the situation. Obviously this would be impossible in
the case of say war or major civil unrest, but where the cause of the loss is a "government performance"
risk, being any risk other than war or civil disturbance, ATI should be able to exert some influence to
attempt to rectify the government failure which caused the loss, bearing in mind that failure to rectify the
situation would result in a claim becoming payable and loss of the IDA credit or donor funds. A valid
claim could result in suspension of the facility and a loss of confidence by investors in doing business in the
country of the government causing the claim.
In each country, a government official at most senior level will be appointed as "ombudsman" for the
facility. That person will be ATI's contact point in case of a Notice of Potential Loss and will have
influence within the government to assist ATI to rectify the situation.
Once the 45 days has expired after delivery of the Notice of Potential Loss, the insured has another 45 days
within which to lodge a claim. A strict time limit is imposed to allow ATI to investigate the claim while
events are still recent or seek any additional information before making a decision as to whether a claim is
payable.
Once a claim is lodged, ATI makes any further investigations it wishes to make to allow it to form an
opinion as to whether a claim is payable or not. Within 15 days of receipt of the claim, ATI furnishes a
report to the insurer setting out the background, and if applicable details on the efforts undertaken to
remedy the situation so as to avoid a claim. The report is delivered to the insurer with a recommendation
as to whether a claim is payable.
ATI must act responsibly and advise a claim where, on a balance of probabilities, the circumstances are in
favor of an insured event having occurred. Failure to admit a claim promptly in circumstances that indicate
an insured risk has occurred, or imposing conditions upon the insured requiring proof of occurrence of a
covered event which are too strict or demanding, can quickly lead to a loss of confidence in the integrity of
ATI and the countries' intention of providing a favorable environment for investment. The Operations
Manual provides assistance as to what evidence is required to make a decision.
The insurer reviews the information contained in the report furnished to it by ATI. If there is agreement to
pay a claim, the insurer takes loan or donor funds held on deposit and makes payment of the claim. If a
dispute arises between ATI and the private insurers as to whether a claim is payable, there will be a
mechanism to allow for an informal expedited arbitration to resolve this dispute.
- 32 -



The insured has the right to arbitrate in the event that ATI and the insurer agree to deny a claim and the
Insured is dissatisfied with that finding. In the event of an arbitration award in favor of the insured, the
insurer uses the funds placed on trust to make payment. In the event that the credit and donor funds are
exhausted as a result of prior claims, the insurer uses its own funds to pay the claim.
The arbitration rules that will apply are UNCITRAL rules, which are recognized worldwide. Policy
holders will be given the choice of applicable law from several legal systems that have well developed
insurance law. When covering import transactions, English law would be used as the default law. The
Harare Arbitration Centre would be the arbitration venue for disputes arising under policies covering
exports from the region. Policy holders from non-participating countries could select alternative arbitration
venues, such as the London Court of Intemational Arbitration.
An arbitrator usually awards the costs of the arbitration hearing against the party losing the decision which
can sometimes amount to a considerable sum of money. This should serve as an important incentive for
ATI, the insurer, and the insured to agree when a claim is payable.
The African Trade Insurance Agency
ATI and IDA will enter into a Project Agreement which requires ATI to carry out its function with due
diligence and efficiency using appropriate administrative and financial practices. ATI is required to
maintain accounts of its financial dealings, have these accounts audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, furnish regular reports to IDA of its operations, and participate in reviews and
evaluations with IDA of the operations of the project.
ATI's Structure
ATI is an intemational institution governed by the Agreement Establishing the African Trade Insurance
Agency. ATI has full juridical personality and will be deemed to be a legally constituted body corporate.
It is endowed with the legal capacity of a corporation. Even though the ATI's constituent instrument is an
Agreement between sovereign states, its character is modeled as a private corporation incorporated or
organized under the municipal laws of a state. Persons can take out judicial or administrative proceedings
against ATI.
The Secretary General of the OAU is the depositary of the agreement creating ATI, and has delegated his
responsibility as depositary to the Secretary General of COMESA.
African States or any public entity nominated or designated by any such State, international development
financial institutions, regional economic organizations (such as Common Market for Eastern and Southern
Africa, Southern Africa Development Community, Economic Community of West African States and the
European Union), and private corporations (such as privately owned insurance companies) may become
members of ATI upon signature and ratification, accession or acceptance of the Agreement Establishing
ATI.
The diverse background and competence of members will provide a fusion of different perspectives,
encourage partnerships and co-operation and foster common approaches in dealing with the negative
perception of Africa as a place to do business. Opening ATI to private sector participation will increase its
acceptability to the market.
In addition, ATI may cooperate with other organizations and institutions, whether public or private,
- 33 -



national or intemational in the discharge of its functions and may establish specific insurance, coinsurance,
reinsurance and guarantee schemes dedicated to a group of countries or to individual countries. The
Agreement Establishing ATI thereby reinforces the concept of cooperation with the private sector.
ATI has a General Assembly (of Members), a Board of Directors and a Managing Director. All will have
officers and staff as the Board of Directors may determine. All the powers of ATI are vested in the
General Assembly, which is composed of one representative and one alternate of each member. It has the
power to appoint the Board of Director and exercise oversight over it.
ATI's Board of Directors comprises six directors elected by member States, three of whom shall be from
the private sector, and one director elected by other members of ATI (intemational development financial
institution, regional economic organization, or body corporate). Members of the Board of Directors are
required to have internationally recognized qualifications and extensive practical experience in at least one
of the following fields: insurance, trade finance and banking, commercial law, and economics.
ATI is autonomous and enjoys admninistrative and financial independence. The Agreement Establishing
ATl provides that All will be independent from political control from its members. All's operations must
be insulated from political considerations, and be based on commercial considerations.
ATI is managed by a Managing Director, who will be assisted by a Finance and Administration Manager,
an Underwriting/Operations Manager, and a Chief Counsel.  The Managing Director must have
internationally recognized qualifications and extensive practical experience in at least one of the following
fields: insurance, banking, and trade finance. The Managing Director will be responsible to the Board of
Directors for the day-to-day management of the affairs of ATI.
The Administrative Department's role will include marketing, environmental screening, economic research,
and finance and accounting. The Underwriting Departrnent will be responsible for processing insurance
applications, issuing insurance policies, and administering outstanding policies. The Chief Counsel will be
responsible for all legal aspects of the business and operations of the Agency, especially these relevant in
the issuance and administration of insurance policy. All staff appointments will be merit-based.
Development Credit Agreements between participating countries and IDA
The Credit Agreements between IDA and the participating countries are specifically designed to create
strong disincentives for governments to cause claims, as well as to stop further losses in case of claims.
ATI will enter into a Project Agreement which will require it to implement the project in strict accordance
with an Operations Manual, which has been prepared with technical assistance from IDA, and which
cannot be amended without IDA approval. The same applies to the insurance policies used by All. The
key features of the Credit Agreements are as follows:
*     Under the terms of the Development Credit Agreements, credit funds are disbursed in tranches and
placed on deposit in a first class bank in London as insurance policies are issued. The funds remain on
deposit until the end of the project (after a ten year life) when they become available to be used by the
respective governments for another purpose agreed with IDA. If certain conditions -mainly related to the
claims record of the RTFP for the relevant country- are not met, the government concerned will be required
to reimburse IDA immediately, rather than be allowed to use the funds.
*      IDA has the right to suspend disbursements for new liabilities under issued insurance policies and
- 34 -



for the issuance of new policies in a given country if: (i) the government is in arrears on its debt service
payment to IDA; (ii) war or civil disturbance occurs in that country; (iii) payment for a claim resulting
from a risk occurring in that country is made using credit funds; and (iv) failure by the country to
reimburse ATI for the amount of any claim caused by a risk other than war and civil disturbance.
Suspension of disbursement for reasons (i), (iii) and (iv) above automatically leads to loss of the right to
use these funds after the project life.
*      IDA has the right to suspend disbursements for new liabilities under issued insurance policies and
for the issuance of new policies in all participating countries if: (i) there is a failure by ATI to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement; (ii) ATI fails to perform any of its obligations under the
insurance arrangements with the cooperating insurers; (iii) the governments or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken action for the dissolution of the ATI, or the suspension of its operations so far
as it relates to the insurance facility; (iv) the provisions of the multilateral agreement establishing ATI are
amended without the consent of IDA; or (v) any material or substantial provision of the Operations Manual
shall have been changed or there has been a change in the form of policies of insurance without the
approval of IDA.
Project Component 2 - US$5.00 million
ATI's Operating and Capital Costs (see Annex 5)
An IDA credit to ATI will cover the costs for the start-up period of ATI's operations. Participating
countries will share ATI's operating and capital costs. A country's share of ATI's operating costs will be
proportional to the level of ATI's activity related to transactions covering imports into and exports out of
that country. For initial capital expenses, a country's share will be based on the proportion of the country's
IDA credit in relation to the sum of IDA credits made to all participating countries. A fund will be created
for capital expenses to be incurred during the life of the project, to which countries joining the facility at a
later date will contribute.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
2  iiit;j0  ;0;          Local                                 Total
US$minlion      US$ilin              S$mf o
Initial Contribution to ATI                                                        0.70               0.00               0.70
Start-up costs of ATI                                                              0.00               5.00               5.00
Insurance Facility                                                                 0.00            300.00             300.00
Total Baseline Cost                                                                0.70            305.00             305.70
Physical Contingencies                                                            0.00               0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                                                               0.00               0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                            0.70             305.00             305.70
Total Financing Required                               0.70             305.00             305.70
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6.15 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 81.3% of to a]
project cost net of taxes.
- 36 -



Annex 4
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
Covered transactions will be directly selected by the market, with assistance from the new
agency to be created. Therefore, no further economic analysis is required. However, in order
to establish whether the project is likely to generate substantial benefits compared to the costs
incurred by the Government in taking an IDA credit, a model was developed to estimate the
amount of business generated by the Regional Trade Facilitation Project (RTFP). This model
is based on certain assumptions in terms of the numbers of insurance policies issued, maturity
of the transactions, the types of transactions covered and amount of claims (see below).
The benefits of the project are equated to the business it generates. The amount of business
generated is different to the balance of outstanding insurance policies at any point in time
because: (i) some transactions are short-term and therefore revolve more than once a year,
leading to a large number of transactions over the ten year life of the facility; (ii) insurance
policies for processing transactions cover a constant flow of business during the period of
coverage, with an average tumover time of two to three weeks. Therefore, over a one year
period, this type of policy generates an amount of business which is a multiple of the amount it
covers at any point in time. The base case model used to calculate the amount of business
generated by the facility indicates that the facility will support about US$0.8 billion in
productive activity in the region over five years (cumulated) and US$2.1 billion over ten years
(cumulated).
A sensitivity analysis shows that if the demand for the facility were to be low, the facility
would have supported US$1.3 billion in productive activities in ten years. Finally, in a
catastrophic scenario where some 50 percent of all insurance policies would be claimed in two
countries of the size of Rwanda and Uganda simultaneously, twice over the facility period in
year 2 and year 6, with a low demand scenario, the facility would have supported US$1.2
billion in productive activity in ten years. Under this scenario, the costs to the Governments
would include the loss of IDA funds lodged in the escrow account in the amount of US$27.8
million, but interest accumulated during Years 1-10 of about US$71.8 million would remain
which could cover the Agency's expenses and IDA administrative expenses.
Main Assumptions:
*   Insurance Facility: US$142 million in Year I and US$284 million in Year 2
*  Base case - Cumulative Policies Issued
Year 1: US$49.5 million
Year 2: US$194.6 million
Year 3: US$375.7 million
Year 4: US$586.9 million
Year 5: US$800.8 million
Year 6: US$1.00 billion
Year 7: US$1.27 billion
Year 8: US$1.53 billion
Year 9: US$1.80 billion
- 37 -



Year 10: US$2.09 billion
*         At any point in time, the portfolio will be composed of the  following transactions:
5% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 90 days
10%  of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 180 days
20% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 270 days
25% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 365 days
25% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 545 days
10% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 730 days (2 years)
5% of facility covering transactions of average maturity of 1095 days (3 years) and more
Insurance underwritten (as % of capacity available)
Yearl  Year2  Year3  Year4  Year5  Year6  Year7  Year8  Year9  YearlO
Low case    20%  30%  30%  40%  40%  50%  50%  50%  60%   70%
Base case   30%   50%   70%   80%   80%   80%   80%   80%   80%   80%
High case    70%   70%   80%   80%   80%   90%   90%   90%   90%   90%
*         Claims amount to 50 percent of the average premium income. This figure is realistic for
commercial insurance companies. It is conservative for this project since for the import transactions and
intra-regional export transactions, the agency will be in a unique position to mitigate claims losses directly
with the countries that are its shareholders.
BASE CASE
(USS)                            Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4           Year 5          Year *          Year 7
Capital in escrow account     0  52,500.000.0  105,757,601.5  109.969,668.3   115,950,204.5   122.484,531.7   129.659.535.4   137,557.204.5
Private sector rlst sharing   0  90.000,000.0  181,250.724.3  188,481,410.3   198,727.918.B   209,914.849.9   222.192,210.7   235,700,847.5
Insurance Issued              0  42,750,000.0  142,194,479.8   208.342,900.5   250,829,733.2   265.077,533.3   260,478i,453.2   297,421,787.4
Productive Activities Generated by Type of Transactions
90         5%              8.688.750     28.833.881      42.247.310      50.862.696       53,751,833      56,874,392      80,310,529
180        10%              8.8668,750    28.833.881      42.247.310      50,882.896       53,751.833      56,874,392      00.310,529
270        20%             11.558.333     38.445,174      58,329.747       87,818,928      71,889.111      75.832.523      80.414,039
365        25%             10,687,500     35,548.820      52.085,725       62,707,433      98,269.383      70.119.113      74,355.447
548        25%              7,144,574     23,764,187      34,819,212      41,919,804       44.300.961      46,874,499      49.706.480
730        10%              2,137,500      7,109,724      10.417,145      12,541.481       13.253.877      14.023.823       14,871.089
1095         5%                712.500      2,369,908       3,472.382       4,180,496        4,417,959       4,674.808       4.957.030
Productive Activity                49.577.908    164.905.374    241.618.832      290,891.540     307,414,957      325.273,349     344,925.143
Cumulative prod. Activity          49,577,908    214,483.282    456,102,114      746,993,653   1,054.408.610   1.379,681,959   1,724,807.102
New productive cctivity            49,577,908    145,074.211     181.110.252     211,193,728     213.881,954      229,180.681     242.568.693
New Cumulative prod. Activity      49,577.908    194.652.119    375.762.371      586,956.099     800.838.052   1,029.998,933   1,272,565.628
- 38 -



Sensitivity Analysis
Cumulative Amount of Productive
Activity (US$ bn.)
Base Case                                                              2.1
High case                                                              2.5
Low case                                                                1.3
Catastrophic scenario (50 percent of policies are claimed in            1.2
two countries, twice over the facility period, low demand case)
-39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
IDA Credit to ATI (US$5 million)
Implementation Period
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6       Year 7
Investment Costs             367,000           -      40,000
Recurrent Costs            2,891,926    2,637,874    3,055,953    3,154,040    3,469,444    3,816,388    4,198,027
Additional Reserves          745,212    2,479,711    3,019,611    3,766,302    4,064,171    4,279,950    3,887,452
Total Project Costs          4,004,138    5,117,585    6,115,563    6,920,342    7,533,615    8,096,339    8,085,479
FINANCING
IDA                        3,258,926    1,648,671          -            -           -           -
ParUcipatng countries        745,212    3,468,914    6,115,563    6,920,342    7,533,615    8,096,339    8,085,479
Total Financing Required     4,004,138    5,117,585    6,115,563    6,920,342    7,533,615    8,096,339    8,085,479
*       Insurance premiums calculated based on amount of transactions and average value of insurance policies expected;
*       All countries will be leveraged on a 3:1 basis, except for Burundi and Rwanda (2:1 basis);
*       2/3 of the premium income will be ceded to the excess of loss insurer
*       Claims will amount to 50 percent of the premium income. But an average of 66% of the claims will be recovered
*       In Year I
Salaries:                                US$1,026,436
Administrative Expenses:                 US$1,013,690
Operational Expenditures:                US$851,800
-       Surplus revenue would be added to the insurance facility
-40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Procurement
IDA Credits for the facility: Funds for the insurance facility will be placed in accounts on trust as secunty
for commercial insurance companies issuing insurance policies, thus no procurement is involved.
IDA Credit to ATI:
Implementation Responsibilities:  ATI will be responsible for procurement under the technical assistance
component (US$5.0 million). Procurement will include the purchase of office equipment and consultant services
related to the setting up of the agency. ATI will undertake the limited procurement under this component in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996 and January 1999). Assistance will be provided to ATI in preparing the terms of
reference and bidding documents for the consulting services and goods to be purchased throughout the project.
Procurement of Goods: Under the technical assistance component, national shopping or IAPSO will be used to
procure goods (a small quantity of office equipment and vehicles) for contracts up to US$80,000 to an aggregate
amount of about US$270,000. Most goods are expected to be available from local dealers and representatives of
intemational companies, which can supply back-up parts and warranty servicing. International shopping will be
used for any items which are not available locally and for individual contracts estimated to cost more than
US$80,000.
Consulting Services: Selection of consultants for this component will be done according to the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, as revised
September 1997 and January 1999). Least-cost selection will be used for contracts totaling about US$100,000 (for
ATI's periodic project audits). Selection based on Quality and Cost-Based selection (QCBS) will be used for
advertising and software contracts, for a total of US$1.16 million. Selection based on consultant qualifications
(including legal, marketing, environment) will be used for small value contracts totaling about US$235,000.
Selection of individual consultants will be on the basis of comparison of CVs of consultants who have expressed
their interest in response to an advertisement.
ATI's Operating Costs: Up to US$4 million of ATI's operating costs for two years will be reimbursed on the
basis of annual budgets approved by IDA as follows: 100 percent of costs in year 1, 75 percent of costs for the
first half of year 2, and 50 percent of costs for the second half of year 2. These costs will include salaries, utilities
and other overhead costs.
-41 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                                                            Total Cost
Procurement          Including
Method             Contingencies
ICB             NCB        Other           N.B_F
1. Works
n/a
2. Goods
Office technology and equipment            --               --           147                               147
(147)1                           (147)
Vehicles                                   --               --           120                               120
(120)l                           (120)
3. Consultant Services                                                   1,395                             1,395
(1,200)2                          (1,200)
4. Miscellaneous
ATI's Operating Expenses                  --               --           4,003                            4,003
(3,250)3                        (3,250)
Total                                   --               --          5,665                             5,665
(4,700)                          (4,700)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
1. National Shopping or Intemational Shopping
2. Procurement according to the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
3. No procurement. ATI's annual operating budget will be subject to IDA's prior review.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Fifteen contracts are expected for the procurement of goods using shopping procedures. The first five contracts
will be subject to IDA's prior review. The remaining contracts will be reviewed ex-post.
For all consultant services, ATI will need IDA's no objection for the terms of reference and short-list of
firns/individuals. Contracts with firms valued at over US$100,000 each will be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval. Contracts with individuals valued at over US$50,000 each will be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval. In addition, the first consultant contract, regardless of size, will also be subject to IDA's prior review.
The remaining contracts would be subject to IDA's post review during project supervision.
Procurement Scheduling
Consultant services will be procured mostly during the first two years, with project audit services engaged before
credit effectiveness.
ATI's purchases of goods, office supplies, and supporting services (as part of operating expenses) will be on a
continuous basis over the 2-year IDA-supported start-up according to budgeted activities.
-42 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review US dollars
Expenditure            Contract Value            Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)                Method             Prior Review I Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Goods (procured by                           National Shopping/lAPSO
ATI)
Office supplies                 < 30,000
Vehicles                        < 80,000
2. Services (procured by
ATI)
Firms2                           <100,000       LCS                             I          50,000
Firms                            >100,000       QCBS                            All3
1,160,000
Firms                           <100,000        Selection based on              1          50,000
Consultants' Qualifications
Individuals                      <50,000        Selection of Individual        First contract
Consultants
Individuals                      >50,000        Selection of Individual         All
Consultants
Total value of contracts     1,260,000
subject to prior review:
I All goods contracts are expected to be under US$80,000.
2 Least cost selection will be used only for ATI's audit.
3 For advertising, marketing and software.
4 Other contracts will be subject to IDA's post review.
-43 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendittre Categry           Amount in US$mil11on           Financing Percentage
Burundi                                       7.50                           100
Kenya                                        25.00                           100
Malawi                                       15.00                           100
Rwanda                                        7.50                           100
Tanzania                                     15.00                           100
Uganda                                       20.00                           100
Zambia                                       15.00                           100
ATI's Operating Costs                         5.00                           100*
Total Project Costs                          110.00
Total                                        110.00
* lo  %foryear 1, 75%for thefirst half ofyear 2, and 50%for the second half ofyear 2.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The total credit is expected to be disbursed over a four-year period and the project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2011. The proceeds of the credit in support of the start-up operating costs of ATI
(US$5 million) are expected to be disbursed in the first two years.
In addition to the credit for ATI's start-up, ATI will be managing seven IDA credits made to the seven
participating countries in the RTFP. The disbursement procedures will be the same for these seven
credits.
The Borrowers for the seven participating countries will establish, under terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, separate Trust Accounts, in United States Dollars, at commercial banks acceptable to IDA. ATI
will, on behalf of the Borrowers, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
these Trust Accounts. The initial authorized allocation for a Borrower's Trust Account will be the
equivalent of 25 percent of its IDA credit. Replenishment applications will be submitted by ATI.
Replenishment will be allowable when the value of new insurance policies issued reaches 50 percent of the
authorized allocation. Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) will be used for disbursements. The SOEs will
provide information on new policies issued.
The proceeds of the IDA credits will back up insurance policies issued by/in the name of a syndicate of
private risk insurers. ATI will submit a request to IDA for its no objection of an approved insurance
application, and submit a Non Binding Application to the facility broker with a request addressed to the
insurer to approve the issue of a formal and binding Insurance Offer Letter. Once the IDA's no objection
and the insurer's approval are received, ATI will issue the Insurance Offer Letter to the applicant, with
copy to the facility broker. Only the insurer will have access to the funds in the Trust Accounts, and then
only to pay a valid claim. A Security Trust Agreement between ATI, the insurers, and the commercial
bank, and an Insurance Facility Agreement between ATI and the insurers will govem the insurer's rights
to access the Trust Accounts. These two agreements will be subject to the IDA's approval.
- 44 -



Special account:
For the credit to ATI, ATI will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a
Special Account, in US Dollars, at a conmmercial bank acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will have an
authorized allocation of US$1 million equivalent. Replenishment will be allowable when the amount in the
Special Account drops to 50 percent of the authorized allocation. Replenishmnent applications will be subnitted
by ATI. Statements of expenditure would be used for ATI's operating expenses (based on the annual budgets
approved by IDA), for contracts with firns below the prior review threshold of US$100,000 and for contracts for
individuals below the prior review threshold of US$50,000.
Financial Management System
ATI is establishing a sound Financial Management System (FMS) which will facilitate the production of
accurate financial reports for the Borrowers, IDA and ATI on a regular basis. ATI is responsible for
implementing a viable system of internal controls to ensure the transparency of transactions and flow of
funds relating to project implementation. Furthermore, the system of intemal controls is meant to seek,
prevent or detect errors or irregularities, which would result in an adverse impact on the financial
statements of the project or the entity. A detailed financial management manual has been prepared and is
part of the Operations Manual which was agreed upon at negotiations.
The FMS includes the planning, intemal controls, accounting, financial reporting and audit arrangements
relating to the project and will be maintained by ATI. The FMS relates to the entire project, irrespective of
the percentage financed by IDA (it is not limited to the funds provided by and/or administered by IDA) and
will enable ATI to provide information which adheres to international accounting standards.
The FMS provides appropriate accounting and intemal control systems that: (i) reliably record and report
ATI's contingent liabilities via commitments made under the issuance of insurance policies, including those
transactions involving the use of IDA funds; (ii) provide sufficient financial inforrnation for managing and
monitoring project activities; and (iii) record, track, and report on all project assets and liabilities.
Audits
By the Agreement establishing it, ATI is required to submit annual audited financial statements to its
member countries. Under the proposed project, ATl is also required to submit such reports to IDA on an
annual basis. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will be appointed to carry out audits on an annual
basis.
Project Management Reports
To comply with the requirement to provide financial reporting, Project Management Reports (PMR) will be
prepared and submitted to IDA on a quarterly basis, no later than 45 days after the end of a quarter. ATI
will submit separate PMRs for each country credit, as well as a set of PMRs covering IDA's credit to ATI.
The fornat of PMRs was agreed upon at negotiations, with one standard formnat for the country credits,
and a different format for the IDA credit to ATI. Given the nature of ATI's operations and the disbursement
mechanism established for the seven country credits, disbursements will not be PMR-based (see
disbursement mechanism described above/below).
-45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18
First Bank mission (identification)              10/23/99                     10/25/99
Appraisal mission departure                     09/04/2000                    09/05/2000
Negotiations                                     11/27/2000                   02/22/200 1
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Joint COMESA/World Bank Project Team
Preparation assistance:
Technical Advisory Committees in participating countries
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Onno Ruh]                         Task Team Leader
Lloyd Edgecombe                   Export Credit Specialist
Paatii Ofosu-Amaah                Chief Counsel
Mark Walker                       Senior Counsel
Said Al Habsy                     Senior Counsel
Marie-Sophie Tar                  Financial Analyst
Ann Rennie                        Banking Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye                  Environmental Specialist
Iraj Talai                        Financial Management Specialist
Richard James                     Consultant (PHRD)
John Byamukama                    Financial Analyst
Dieneba Diarra-Kambou             Consultant
Ashoka Mody                       Peer Reviewer
Jorma Paukku                      Peer Reviewer
Amy Champion                      Program Assistanit
Irene Chacon                      Program Assistant
Marika Behr                       Team Assistant
Josette Percival                  Language Team Assistant
Andrea Vasquez                    Language Program Assistant
-46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AFRICA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Reports
ATI's planned budget
Projections on volume of business generated by the insurance facility
C. Other
Demand Surveys (foreign and local banks; foreign and local enterprises)
ATI's Treaty
Credit Agreements
Project Agreement
*Including electronic files
-47 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURUNDI: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P064556        2000 BI-EERC                                            0.00      35.00                            0.00       4.59     -29.74      0.0D
P064510        2000 Bi-Bursap 11                                       0.00      12.00                            0.00      10.89       1.28      0.0t)
P038801        1995 EMERG. ASSIST PR.EAP                               0.00      14.6                             0.00       0.00      -0.24      0.0)
P000216        1995 HEALTHIPOPULATION 11                               0.00      21.30                            0.00       6.78       t.41      -0.89
P000237        1993 AGRt-SUSINESS PROMOT                               0.00       3.10                            2.96       0.00       2.73      0.00
P000227       1993 81-Sodal Aon                                       0°00       10.40                           00         0.70       073       0.30
P000208        1992 SAL III                                            0.00      30.00                           21.93       0.00      18.63      0.00
P000217        1992 WATER SUP SECTOR                                   0.00      32.70                            0.00       1.45      25.69      1.38
P000226        1992 PRIV SEC                                           0.00      17.00                           10.03       0.00       9.57      0.67
P000219       1991 SI-EnergySectorRethab.                              0.00     22.80                             1.19       0.02       1.24      0.0o
P000204        1990 8ui-Transport Sector                               0.00      43.20                            4.73       0.00       4.67      -2.06
Total:       0.00      242.10                           40.84      24.44      41.97       0.59
- 48 -



BURUNDI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
2000                AEF V&F Export                  0.44     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.44     0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity       Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
- 49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KENYA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS MiNions                             disbursenerWts
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRO         IDA                         Cancel.   Undi3b.      Orig  Frrn Rev'd
P071196       2001 Emorgsncyenerycd                                  0.00     72.00                           000       39.60    -1.333     -1.33
P069501       2001 Economic&PublicSectorRform                        0.00    150.00                           000       98.40     34.13    -49.20
P070920       2001 HV/AMIDS Project (Umbretta)                       0.00     50.00                           000       000        0.00      000
P056595       1999 EMERGENCY INFRAS.REHAB                            0.00     40.00                           0.00      21.51     22.93     - 7.20
P056312       1998 STRUCTURALADJ.CRED                               000       1750                            000      0°00        000       0.00
P001344       1997 ENERGYSECTORREFORM                               0.00    125.00                            0.00    100.49      98.08    -10.42
P001217       1997 TANARIVERPROJECT                                 000        000                            000       490        4.47      0.81
P001354       1997 NARPII   .                                       0.00      39.70                           0.00      17.01      4.24    -18.94
P034180       1997 EARLYCHILDHOODDEV                                 000      27.80                           0.00      17.90     10.26      7.25
P046838       1997 LAKE VICTORA ENV.                                 0.00     12.80                           0.00      6.80       4.12      4.88
P046871       1997 LAKE VtCTORtAENV.                                000        9.80                           0.00       8.07      5.79     .2.31
P049332       1997 STRUC.ADJUST.CREDIT                             0°00       26.60                           000        0.00      0.00      0.00
P001319       1996 URBANTRANSPORT                                    0.00    115.00                           0.00      34.72     11.66    -E7,58
P001331       1996 ARIDLANDS                                         000      22.00                           0.00      10.11     10.86     .9.42
P001334       1996 SAG I                                             0°00     90.00                          65.78      16.26     46.97     90.42
P035691       1996 NAIROBIMOMaASAROAD                                0.00     50.00                           0.00      1442      1340      -3075
P045738       1996 SAC I                                             0.00     36.80                           0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
P001367       1995 INST. DEVELOPMENT                                 0.00     2540                            0.00       560       7.53    -17.82
P001333       1995 SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED                              0.00     40.00                           0.00       1.75      3.49    -36.11
P035579       1994 EDUCATION SECTOR ADJ CREDIT                       000      42.20                           0.00       0.00      o.0       0.00
P001353       1994 MICRO&SSMALLENTERP                              0°00       21.80                           0.00      14.87     1443      12.22
P001369       1993 DROUGHTRECOVERY                                   000      20.00                           1.30       0.00      0.26    -19.74
P001348       1993 PARASTATAL REFORM TA                              000      23.32                           0.00       0.78      176    -21.56
P001372       1993 EDUC SECTORADJ                                    0.00     52.10                           0.00       0.00      000       )00
P001342       1993 AGRIC. SECT. MNGT. I                              0.00     19.40                           5.53       000       5.25      3.65
P001327       1992 EDUCATIONSECT.ADJ.C                               000     100.00                           000        000    -103.44   -203.44
P001345       1992 WtLDLIFE SERVICES PR                              0.00     60.50                           3.78       0.00      0.36     -0.14
P001339       1992 HEALTH REHABILITATIO                              0.00     31.00                           2.87       0.00      3.90    -27 10
P001361       1992 MOMBASAWATERIIENG                                 0.00     43.20                           0.18       0.00      -1.99    -2.03
P001362       1992 UNIVERSITIES                                      000      5500                            0.00       3.22      064       ll64
P001365       1992 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                                0.00     49.20                           0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
P001322       1991 FOREST DEVELOPMENT                                0.00     19.90                           249       0o00       2.65    -17.25
P001364       1991 FINALCIALSECTORADJUSTMENT                         0.00     67.30                           0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
P001300       1991 AG.NATL.EXTII                                    0o00      2490                            8.07       0.00      e.84      s,08
P001312       1990 POPULATIONIV                                      000      35.00                           741        0.00      6.40      606
P001325       1990 COFFEEII                                          0.00     46.80                           4.97       0.00      095    -4.84
P001340       1990 3RD NAIROBI WIS PROJ                              000      64.80                            1.71      0.00      -2.62    -2.70
P001359       1990 FIN SEC ADJ                                       0.00     MO                              0°00       0e00      0.00       00
P001351       1989 INDSECADJ                                         0.00     53.70                           0.00       0.00      0.00      000
Total:       0.00    1,824.52                        120.09     416.43     175.49    -585.77
-50-



KENYA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
in Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Panic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Panic
1999               AIF                            0.00   74.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.55      0.00    0.00
1999               AIM                            0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00
1993               Africa Fund                    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1999               ETI                            0.00     3.75    3.75    0.00    0.00    3.75     3.75    0.00
2000               MSICIH                         0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00      0.00    0.00
1999               PROPARCO AL                   17.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1990               JF Asia Select                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               SEAVI III Trust                0.00    8.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.85      0.00    0.00
1984               SEAVIC                         0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.01    0.00
1984               SEAVIM                         0.00     0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00
1998               AAP                            0.00   28.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.29      0.00    0.00
2000               NCBank                         0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Eurotech                   1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SEF FEFAD Bank                 0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Flecol                     0.61     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.61    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AUTCL                          5.63     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.63    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994               AceiteraChabas                 0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00    0.00    0.00       3.10    0.00
1994               Aceitera General               7.50    0.00    6.90    0.00    7.50    0.00      6.90    0.00
1960/95/97/99      Acindar                       50.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   50.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994/95/96         Aguas                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas                 10.00    0.00    0.00   40.50   10.00    0.00      0.00   40.50
1999               American Plast                10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               Arg Equity Inv.                0.00     2.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.84     0.00    0.00
2000               Argentina SMMC                 0.00    12.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994/99            BGN                            0.00     0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    33.00    0.00
1989/91/96         Banco Frances                  4.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.10    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996/99            Banco Galicia                 50.00    0.00    0.00  245.00   50.00    0.00      0.00  245.00
1995/97            Banco Roberts                 30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               Bansud                         3.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.39    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Bco Hipotecario               25.00    0.00    0.00   102.50   25.00    0.00      0.00  102.50
1996               Brahma - ARG                  14.93    0.00    0.00   16.50   14.93    0.00       0.00   16.50
1988/93            BungeyBom                      0.53     0.00    0.00    4.01    0.53    0.00     0.00    4.01
1996               CAPSA                          8.73     0.00    5.00   24.00    8.73    0.00      5.00   24.00
1999               CCI                            0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00       6.00    0.00
1995               CEPA                           6.67     0.00    3.00     1.20    6.67    0.00     3.00    1.20
2000               Cefas                          10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Correo Argentino              63.00    6.82    5.18    0.00   63.00    6.82       5.18    0.00
1994/95            EDENOR                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998               F.V. S.A.                     11.25    0.00    4.00    0.00    11.25    0.00      4.00    0.00
1998               FAID                           0.00    2.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.75       0.00    0.00
2000               FAPLAC                         10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    10.00    0.00     5.00    0.00
1992               FEPSA                          2.75     0.00    2.00    0.00    2.75    0.00      2.00    0.00
1997               FRIAR                         10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00   10.00    0.00       2.50    7.00
1996               Grunbaum                       6.00    0.00    2.00    3.33    6.00    0.00       2.00    3.33
Total Portfolio:      3373.09   942.24  473.94  3036.23  2776.17  694.95   423.03 2677.88
- 51 -



1999              AIF                              0.00      0.00  25000.00     0.00
2000              MSICIH                           0.00      0.00   3500.00      0.00
1998              Patos Marinza                30000.00      0.00      0.00  50000.00
2000              Hotel Armenia                    0.00   3600.00      0.00     0.00
1998              U.Belgrano                   15000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              USAL                          10000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999              Unisoy                        5000.00   2000.00      0.00   4000.00
2000              ALEF                          25000.00     0.00      0.00 150000.00
2000              APSF                         20000.00      0.00   5000.00  30000.00
1999              American Plast                   0.00      0.00    350.00     0.00
2000              Argentina SMMC               100000.00     0.00      0.00 450000.00
1999              Biopork                       5200.00   2000.00      0.00   5000.00
2000              CAG Fund                         0.00      0.00  10000.00      0.00
1999              Galicia BLfNC                    0.00      0.00      0.00  75000.00
2001              Azer JV Increase                 0.00      0.00     60.00      0.00
2001              SEFBosnalijek II               2300.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              ULC - Bangladesh               5000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              USPCL                            0.00   4000.00   3000.00      0.00
2000              Haripur                      40000.00      0.00      0.00  14100.00
2000              Jalalabad II                 30000.00  10000.00      0.00  30000.00
1998              Khulna                           0.00      0.00   3300.00     0.00
2000              Lafarge B Loan                   0.00      0.00      0.00  15000.00
1998              Lafarge Surma                35000.00      0.00  10000.00     0.00
2000              Podem                         3100.00   2000.00      0.00      0.00
1999              BPBank                        10000.00     0.00  12400.00     0.00
2001              Doverie                        3000.00   1800.00     0.00      0.00
1999              SOBAC                            0.00      0.00     79.22     0.00
2000              FINADEV                           0.00     0.00    352.98      0.00
2001              Banco Ganadero                 5000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Samnaritano                   20000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Sepetiba                      27000.00     0.00   6000.00  18000.00
2000              BBA                           50000.00     0.00      0.00  50000.00
1997              CTBC                         35000.00      0.00      0.00 150000.00
1999              Cibrasec                         0.00      0.00   7500.00     0.00
1998              FSA                          35000.00  10000.00      0.00  45000.00
1996              Globocabo II                     0.00      0.00      0.00  38000.00
1998              Ipiranga-RI 2                    0.00      0.00     92.07     0.00
1999              MBR LTDP                     20000.00   5000.00      0.00 115000.00
1996              Oxiteno/Ethylo                   0.00      0.00   5000.00      0.00
2000              BAL                           10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              COSMIVOIRE RI                     0.00     0.00    998.66      0.00
2000              San Antonio                   35000.00     0.00   3700.00  65000.00
2000              AEF Banagri                     159.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              AEF Complexe II                   0.00     0.00    169.71      0.00
1999              AEF EPA                        997.68      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              AEF Hobec                       338.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF LUNA                       246.86      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              BICEC                             0.00     0.00    702.22      0.00
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00      0.00      0.00   1500.00
2000              SBCF I                            0.00     0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000              SBLAV                             0.00     0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000              SIGC                              0.00     0.00   6000.00      0.00
2000              Shizuishan Carbn                  0.00     0.00   1700.00      0.00
2000              Wan Jie Hospital              15000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              CIG Zhapu                      6000.00   5000.00     0.00      0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                    15000.00   5000.00     0.00  15000.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical              7400.00      0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                    12800.00     0.00      0.00  20000.00
2000              Jinfeng                        9000.00     0.00      0.00   7300.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc              3333.33      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001              Tolcemento                     3333.33     0.00      0.00  10666.67
2001              Cementos Caribe                4047.62     0.00  10000.00  12952.38
1999              Harken                           0.00  10000.00      0.00      0.00
2000              CODACSA                       25000.00     0.00   1600.00  35000.00
2000              ERSA                           8000.00   4000.00     0.00      0.00
- 52 -



Total Pending Commitment:     1010156.8 134027.00 210034.10 1672305.7
8                             7
- 53 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALAWI: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Dibtenc e         u
and ac1a
Ortginal Amount in USS Millions                                disbrrnam
Project ID     FY   Puroose                                         IBRD         IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undlsb.         Orb   Ffm RPAd
P001664        1997 ENV MANAGEMENT                                      0.00      12.40                             0.00       8.39       1.24       0.00
P001648        1996 FISCAL RESTR&DERE                                   0.00     112.20                             0.00       0.67      -2.46       3.17
P001658        1991 FISHERIES DEV.                                      0.00       8.80                             0.00       0.64       0.83       0.13
P001657        1994 INSTIT.DEV.II                                       0.00      22.60                             0.00       6.40       7.05       0.00
P001636        1992 LOCAL GOVT.                                         0.00      24.00                             0.00       s.60       5.07      4.?7
P049599        1999 MASAF If                                            0.00      66.00                             0.00      59.98      26.98       0.00
P001667        1995 NAT WATER DEV                                       0.00      79.20                             0.00      31.78      23.16       0.00
P001646        1991 PHN SECTOR CREDIT                                   0.00      55.50                             0.00       7.55       9.91       0.00
P036038        1999 POPULATIONIFP PROJEC                                0.00       5.00                             0.00       4.38       2.53       0.00
P001662        1992 POWER V                                             0.00      55.00                             0.00       4.77       5.78       5.34
P042305        1996 PRIMARY EDUCATION EM                                0.00      22.50                             0.00       0.57       2.39       0.00
P001666        1999 ROAD MAIN. & REHAB                                  0.00      30.00                             0.00      27.79       4.21       0.00
P001670        1998 SECONDARY ED PROJECT                                0.00      48.20                             0.00      42.94      10.53       0.00
P001668        1996 SOCIAL ACTION FUND                                  0.00      56.00                             0.00       5.52        1.15      0.00
Total:        0.W       597.40                            0.00      206.84      98.40       7.97
- 54-



MALAWI
STATEMENT OF IFCs
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               AEF Mal Stkbrkrs               0.00    0.11     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11     0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Maravi                     0.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.42    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mwaiwathu                  0.00    0.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Ufulu Garden               0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00      0.00    0.00
1986190            LFCM                           0.00    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11      0.00    0.00
2028               NICO                           0.00    1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.04    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.71    2.07    0.00     0.00     0.66    2.07     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999               AEF City Lodge                  640.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               HOFICO                            0.00      0.00    300.00      0.00
1998              IDHM                               0.00      0.00    500.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       640.00      0.00    800.00      0.00
-55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RWANDA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Feb-2001
Difference between expectei
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                          disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P045182      2000 RW-Rural Water Suppty & Sanitation Proje        0.00     20.00                          0.00     19.70      0.00      0.00
P045091      2000 Rw-Human Resource Dev.                          0.00     3500                           0.00     34.05      1.79      0.00
P058038      2000 AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MARKET                   0.00      5.00                          0.00      4.07     -091       0.00
P057294       1999 DEVELOPMT.                                     0.00     75.00                          0.00     31.29     20.91      000
P051931       1999 EC REC.CREDIT                                  0.00      5.00                          000       3.93      1.61      0.00
P002241       1993 CROP                                           0.00     2600                           701       4.22     11.86      4.85
P002237       1991 Rw-Energy Sector                               0.00     19.60                          000       744       0.08      0.09
P002238       1990 HEALTH & POPULATION                            0-00     40.00                          0.00     20.35    -26.47     12.69
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Total:      0.00     225.60                          7.01     125,05      8.87     17.63
RWANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval             Company                                Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic       Loan   Equity       Quasi    P;
Total Portfolio:               0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                    Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
2000                   Rwandacell                              4000.00    2000.00           0.00        0.00
1998                   AEF Highland                             526.10         0.00         0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:              4526.10    2000.00           0.00         0.00
- 56-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TANZANIA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Projed ID     FY   PUIPO5_                                      IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Ong   Frm Revd
POS372       2001 SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT                        0.00     60.00                 0.00      000       5709      -0.0       000
P002822       2000 PSAC I                                            0.00    190.00                 000       0.00     156.05    -29.32      000
P049838       2000 PRIVATIZATION                                     0.00     45.90                 0.00      0.00      39.46      8.86      0.00
P050441       2000 RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC                             0°00       2.00                 0.00      0.00       1 71      0.83      000
P057187       2000 FlDP l                                            0.00     27.50                 0.00      0.00     22.91      1t23       0.00
P058627       2000 HeaIIh Soe DevlpnW   Program                      0.00     22.00                 0.00      0.00      19.17      0.61      0.00
P060833       2000 PUBLIC SERV REF PROG                              0.00     41.20                 0.00      0.00      33.21     -5.27      0.00
P047761       1999 TAX ADMINISTRATIoN                                0.00     40.00                 0.00      0.00      31.63      6.27      0.00
P002789       1998 HUMAN RESOURCE DEVI                               0.00     20.90                 0.00      0.00       9.18      3.28      0.00
P002804       1998 AGRICRESEARCH                                     0.00     21.80                 0.00      0.00      1400       2.86      000
P046872       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV                                 0.00      9.a0                 9.80      0.00       2.74      0.56      0.00
P002753       1997 NATEXTPROJPH.lt                                   0.00     31.10                 0.00      000       11.79      9.74      o00
P038570       1997 RIVER BASIN MGM.SMAL                              0.00     26.30                 0 00      0.00      13.27      6.54      0.00
P046837       1997 LAKE VICTORIAENV.                                 0.00     10.10                 0.00      0.00       334       1 39      000
P002758       1996 URBAN SECTOR REHAB                                0.00    105.00                 0.00      0.00      37o09      9.62      0.00
P002812       1995 MINERALSECTORDEV.                                 0.00     12.50                 0.00      0.00       174       1.18      1.98
P002770       1994 ROADSII                                           0.00    170.20                 0.00      000      11898     12669    171.93
P002801       1994 ASMP                                              0.00     24.50                 000       2.86       1.12      4.33      012
P002700       1993 TELECOMIII                                        0.00     7445                  0.00      00o        2.93      3 53      3.53
P002756       1993 POWER VI                                          0.00    200.00                 0.00      0.00      2008      1367       000
P002788       1993 PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT                              0.00     34.90                 0.00      0.00       0.73      0.11      000
P002757       1991 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                              0.00     76.00                 0.00     1126       11.82     20.86     9s65
P002786       1991 PETROL REHAB                                     0e00      44,00                 0.00      0.00       3.01      0.85      0.54
Total:       0.00    1290.15               9.80       14.11     61306      200.31    18775
- 57 -



TANZANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Parti
1993               TPS (Tanzania)                 7.00    0.87    1.04    0.00    7.00    0.87       1.04    0.0
1991/97            TPS Zanzibar                   0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.0
1994               Tanzania Brewery               0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00      0.00    0.0
1998               Tanzania Jubilee               0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29      0.00    0.0
1994               ULC Leasing                    1.13    0.95    0.00    0.00    1.13    0.76       0.00    0.C
2000               IOH                            2.50     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00      0.00    0.C
1996/99            AEF A&K Tanzania               0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00      0.00    0.C
1997               AEF Aquva Ginner               0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00      0.00    0.C
1998               AEF Blue Bay                   1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.50    0.00    0.00    0.C
1996               AEF Contiflora                 0.35     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.C
1998               AEF Drop Zanziba               0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    O.C
1997               AEF Hort. Farms                0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    O.C
1998               AEF Maji Masafi                1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.00    0.00     0.00    0.C
1996               AEF Milcafe                    0.18     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00      0.00    0.C
1994               AEFMoshiLthr                   0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19       0.00    0.C
1999               AEF Musoma Fish                1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.50    0.00    0.00    O.C
1994               AEF Nomad Safari               0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00       0.00    O.C
1997/99            AEF Pallsons                   0.41     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.00    0.00    O.C
1994               AEF Raffia Bags                0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.(
1995               AEF Tanbreed                   0.?/0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00      0.00    0.(
1993/96            AEF Tanganyika                 0.06     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00      0.00    0.(
1996               AEF Zainab Grain               0.76     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.76    0.00      0.00    0A
2000               AEF Zan Safari                 0.70     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00      0.00    0.(
1997               DATEL                          2.25     0.51    0.00    0.00     1.35    0.48     0.00    0.(
1994               Eurafrican Bank                0.00    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73       0.00    0.(
1996               IHP                             1.18    0.60    0.00    0.00     1.18    0.60     0.00    0.(
Total Portfolio:        23.31    10.17    1.04    0.00    22.06    9.95     1.04    0.
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998              TTCL                               0.00      0.00  20000.00      0.00
1999              AEF Arusha                      1500.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               AEF Boundary Hil                200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               AEF Drop 11                     200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Moun Village                 900.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998              AEF Neptune Flwr                 402.76      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               NBC                           30000.00      0.00  10069.23      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     33202.76      0.00  30069.23      0.00
- 58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Fet2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements,
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Ong   Frm Rev'd
P050439       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM            0.00      48.50                0.00       0.00     47.43       0 00      0.00
P044679       2000 Sond Econm,ic and Fin Mgnt P"e                   0.00      34.04                 0.00      0.00     29.64       7.18      0.00
P002992       2000 LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                           0.00      80.90                0.00       0.00     65.06      -9.17      0.00
P044213       1999 FINMKTSASSISTANCE                                0.00      13.00                000        0.00      12.59      9.25      0.00
P059127       1999 AGRIC.RES&TRNG.11                                 0.00     26.00                 0.00      0.00     22.69       4.67      0.00
P059223       1999 NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REH                             0.00      22.40                 0.00      0.00     19.68      11.86      0.00
P002941       1999 ICWAMSU                                          0.00      12.40                2.00       0.00      5 36       1.99      0 00
P002970       1999 ROADSEDEVTPROGRAM                                0.00      90.98                0.00       0.00     83.39       7.68      000
P049543       1998 ROAD SECTINST.SUPP                                0.00     30.00                0.00       0.00     22.88      24.55      0.00
P057007       1996 EL NINO EMERG RD REP                              0.00     27.60                0.0    . 0.00       23.36      24.49      0.00
P040551       1998 NUTRIT.CHILDDEV                                  0.00      34.00                 0.00      000      24.34       6.19      0.00
P046836       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                0.00     12.10                 0.00      0.00      4.55       1.65      0.0
P046870       1997 LAKE VICTORLAENV.                                0.00       9.80                9.80       0.00      571        3.26      0.00
P002987       1997 SAC III                                           0.00    125.00                 0.00      0.00     64.81      42.66     42.13
P002978       1996 ENVIRONMENTALMGMT&CAPAC1TYBLDG                    0.00     11.80                 0.00      0.00      1.58       2.87      1.71
P035634       1996 PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                              000      12.30                 0.00      2.18       2.58      5.77      0 00
P002971       1995 DISTRICT HEALTH                                   000      45.00                 0.00      0.00       5.88      3.12      0.00
P002976       1995 INST. CAPACITY BLDG                               0.00     36.40                 0.00      0.00       313       5.45      0.00
P002957       1994 SMALL TOVS WATER                                  000      42.30                 0.00      000       6.67       7.44      0.o0
P002977       1994 COTTONSECTORDEVELO                                0.00     14.00                 000       0.00       0.41      060      -051
P002963       1994 SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                   0.00     50.00                 0 00      0.00       5.08      5.75      0.00
P002953       1993 PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                              0.00     52.60                 0.00      0.00      3.79       3.74      1.97
P002929       1991 POWER III                                         0.00    125.00                 0.00      0.00      17.42    -10.38    175 97
Total:       0.00     956.12              11.80        2.18     478.03     160,64    221.27
- 59 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Parti
2000               CelTel Uganda                  4.00    0.70    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.70       0.00    0.0'
1994               CeItel                         0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00    0.43 -'  0.64     0.80    0.01
1984/92            DFCU                           0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60      0.00    0.0O
1993               Jubilee                        0.00    0.10    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.0
1996               Kasese Cobalt                 12.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    12.00    3.60     0.00    0.0
1998               Tilda Rice                     2.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.78    0.00      0.00    0.0
1995/96            Uganda Leasing                 1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00      0.00    0.0
1983               Uganda Sugar                   5.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.08    0.00      0.00    0.0
1996               AEF Agro Mgmt                  0.60    0.40    0.00     0.00    0.55    0.40     0.00    0.0
1992               AEF Clovergem                  0.84    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.0
1997               AEF Conrad Plaza               1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.13    0.00    0.00    0.0
1998               AEF Exec. Invmnt               0.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.97    0.00    0.00    0.0
1999               AEF Gomba                      1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.40    0.00     0.00    0.0
2001               AEF Kabojja                    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.0()    0.0
1998               AEF Kampala Flwr               0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.0(    0.0
2000               AEF Kasambya                   0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.0
AEF Kiwa 11                    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.0
1997               AEF Ladoto                     0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00       0.00    0.0
2000               AEF LongFreight                 0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.0
2000               AEF Mosa Court                  0.64    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.64    0.00     0.00    0.0
1998               AEF Nile Roses                 0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00       0.00    0.0
1993               AEF Polypack                   0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00       0.00    O.C
1994               AEF Rainbow                    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00    O.C
1995               AEF Rwenzori                   0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00       0.00    O.C
1993               AEF Skay Electro               0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    O.X
1998               AEF Skyblue                    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00       0.00    O.C
1994               AEF White Nile                 0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00       0.00    O.C
1998               AEF Wstern Hgh                 0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.0(    O.C
1999
Total Portfolio:        36.88     6.04    0.80     0.00    30.77    6.04    0.80    0..
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998              AEF Ram Oil                     1000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      1000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between e,xpected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  FrTr Reod
P003218       1995 AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                               0.00     80.00                            000       1342      17.85      0.17
P003249       1999 8ASIC ED SEC INV PRG                               0.00     40.00                            0.00     29.86      16.91      3.83
P044324       1997 ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                               0.00     45.00                            0.00     36.21      34.08       0.00
P040642       1996 ERIPTA                                             0.00     23.00                            0.00       3.96      4.68       0.00
P003253       1997 Ernionmta Support Program                          0.00     12.80                            0.00       9.83      5.42       0.00
P039016       2000 FISC SUST.CR.                                      0.00    140.00                           .000       93.72      0.00       0.00
P003239       1995 HEALTH SECTOR                                     0°00      56.00                            0.00      25.55     28.97       0.00
P064064       2000 MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT                     0.00     37.70                            0.00      36.93      o.0o       0.00
P003236       1998 NATIONAL ROAD                                     0°00      70.00                           0°00       39.79      -2.15      0.00
P035076       1998 POWER REHAB                                        0o00     75.00                            0.00      67.88     61.05       0.00
P050400       2000 PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                               0°00      28.00                            0.00      26.48      0.00       0.00
P003210       19g5 SOCIAL RECOVERY II                                 0.00     30.00                            0.00       026       3.92       0.00
P063584       2000 Social Investmenr Fund (ZAMSIF)                    0.00     64.70                            0.00      61.92      -1.25      0.00
P003241        1995 URBANRESTRCT&WATER                                0.00     33.00                           0o00        4.96      2.44       1.44
Total:       0.00     715.20                            0.00     450.77     171.92      5.44
- 61 -



ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               AEF Amaka Cotton               1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Big Five Car               0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Drilltech                  0.16    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.15    0.00
1999               AEF Esquire                    0.40    0.0     '.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF JY Estates                 0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEFKailaLodge                  0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Pentire                    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               APC Ltd.                       2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1972/73            Bata Shoe ZA                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Finance Bank                   3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               IMDHZ                          0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
2000               KCM                            0.00    5.20   24.80    0.00    0.00    5.20    .3.70    0.00
1998               Nicozan                        0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.00    0.00
1999/00            Zamncell                       3.30    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        13.45     6.44   24.95    0.00     6.65    6.44     3.85    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitrnent
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999              AEF Kembe Estate                1300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Mpelembe                     700.00    300.00      0.00      0.00
2000               AEF QNet                        340.00      0.00     80.39      0.00
2000               Lusaka InterCon                4600.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997              Safari Intl.                    2000.00      0.00    750.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      8940.00    300.00    830.39      0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURUNDI: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-               -'
Burundi    Africa   income       Development diamond'
1999
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                        6.7       642     2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$)                    130        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       0.8       321       988
Averaae annual orowth. 1993-99
PoDulaton /%)                                          2.1       2.6       1.9
Labor force(%l                                         24        2.6       2.3     GNP                              Gmss
per                            primary
Most recent estimate ltatest vear available. 1993-99)                              capita                        PnrnuImAnt
Povertv (% of Dooulation below national oovertv line)
Urban oooulation /% of total ooDulatlon)                9         34        31
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                       42         50        60
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)              118         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to imDroved water source (% of oooulation)       ..        43        64
Illiteracv % of Dooulation sae 15+)                    53         39        39
Gross odmarv enrollment (% of school-aae  aooulaton)   51         78        96                  Burundi
Male                                                 55         85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               46         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic r tios
GDP /USS billions)                            0.8      1.1       0.9       0.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                14.9     16.5       8.8       8.0
Exworts of ooods and services/GDP            14.2      9.7       8.1       8.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                    6.4      3.3      -2.9      -1.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                    5.3     14.3       2.6       4.2
Current account balance/GDP                           -2.1      -6.2       -3.6    Does
Interest Davments/GDP                         02       13        14        21         mesc
0.2  1.3  1.4       21      SaingsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               17.4    79.0      128.7     157.6     Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                    3.7    36.4       73.7      88.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                       71.3
Present value of debtWexoorts                                  833.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1M     1999403
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                  4.4    -2.9      -5.8       5.5       3.2                   Burundi
GNP Der caoita                       1.3    -4.5      -7.2       5.1       1.1                   Low-income group
Exworts of ooods and services        3.8      8.2     -4.0      35.9      17.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                  60.6     53.7      53.6      49.8    100
Industrv                                     16.6    19.7       17.3      18.5    so/
Manufactunna                               10.5     13.3        6.9       7.9
Services                                     22.8     26.7      29.1      31.7      o
Private consumotion                          80.8    86.6       89.6      84.0    .50 !-
General aovemment consumDtion                12.8     10.2      13.3      17.6                    GDI           GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                22.7     22.9      19.8      18.3                    G
(aversac annual oowt  1979489  1989-99  1998  1999  Growth of exports and imports l%)
(averaae annual arowth)
Aoriculture                                   3.1     -1.6       4.7       -2.8    3^
Industrv                                      5.1     -6.2      -5.1       6.3    200
Manufacturino                               5.9     -8.1     -10.8        4.9
Services                                      5.8     -1.3       8.7       -0.3    100
Private consumoton                            3.4     -5.3      21.1       -6.5    oe 
General oovemment consumotion                 0.5     15.7       4.6      15.0             94 95            97   98   99
Grossadomesticinvestment                      8.7     -2.7      45.8      10.9   -10
lmortsofooods and services                    2.2      8.1      81.3      13.0                  Exports        ) Imports
Gross national oroduct                        4.2     -3.0      -5.6       5.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-oroUD averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomDlete.
Burundi
- 63 -



Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Burundi    Africa   income       Developmentdbamond-
1999
Pooulation. mid-vear tmillions)                        6.7       642     2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP oer cadita (Atlas method. USSJ                    130        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       0.8       321       988
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
Pooulation 1%)                                         2.1       2.6       1.9
Labor force(%l                                         2.4       26        2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-99)                              capita enmllmp.ni
Povertv (% of DoDulation below national oovettv line)
Urban oooulation (% of total DoDulationl                9         34        31
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                       42         50        60
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)              118         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51              ..        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% of oooulaffon)        ..       43        64
Illiteracv (% ofooDulation ace 15+1                    53         39        39
Gross orimary enrollment (% of school-awe oooulationl  51         78        96                  Burundi
Male                                                 55         85       102                  Low4ncome group
Female                                               46         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GOP USS billions)                             0.8      1.1       0.9       0.7
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                14.9     16.5       8.8       8.0                     Trd
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP            14.2      9.7       8.1       8.8                      rade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                    6.4      3.3      -2.9       -1.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                    5.3     14.3       2.6       4.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      2.1      -6.2       3.6     Domestic
Interest oavmentslGDP                         0.2      1.3       1.4       2.1                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                               17.4     79.0     128.7    157.6       Savings
Total debt servicelexDorts                    3.7    36.4       73.7      88.9
Present value of debtGDP                       ..       ..      71.3
Present value of debt/exoorts                  ..       ..    833.6
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998      1999   199943
(averaoe annual orowthl
GDP                                  4.4     -2.9     -5.8       5.5       3.2                   Bturundi
GNP Der caoita                       1.3    -4.5      -7.2       5.1       1.1                   Low-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services        3.8      8.2     -4.0      35.9      17.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investrnent and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                  60.6     53.7      53.6      49.8
Industrv                                     16.6     19.7      17.3      18.5      s.
Manufactunno                               10.5     13.3        6.9       7.9
Services                                     22.8     26.7      29.1      31.7      0
Private consumotion                          80.8     86.6      89.6      84.0    .50 _
General oovemment consumotion                12.8     10.2      13.3      17.6                _GDI    -GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                22.7     22.9      19.8      18.3
1979-89  198949       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports 1%)
(averace annual orowthl
Aonculture                                    3.1     -1.6       4.7       -2.8    300
Industrv                                      5.1     -8.2      -5.1       6.3    200
Manufactunno                                5.9    -8.1       -10.8       4.9
Services                                      5.8     -1.3       8.7       -0.3   1i- . O'
Private consumotion                           3.4    -5.3       21.1      -6.5       o
General oovemment consumotion                 0.5     15.7       4.6      15.0                              97 9B   99
Gross domestic investment                     8.7     -2.7      45.8      10.9    100       -E
Imoorts of ooods and services                 2.2      8.1      81.3      13.0                  pstorts      - Imports
Gross national oroduct                        4.2     -3.0      -5.6       5.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomolete.
Burundi
- 64 -



Kenya at a glance                                                               919100
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Kenya     Africa  income       Development dlamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      29.4       642     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    360       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     10.7       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        2.2        2.6       1.9     GNP
Labor force (%)                                       3.2        2.6       2.3      p                              Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban populaton (% of total population)                32        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       51        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               76        92        77
Child malnutriton ( of children under 5)               23        32        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      53        43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   19        39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  85        78        96                  Kenya
Male                                                 85        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                               85        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                           6.2      8.3       11.5      10.6
Grossdomesticinvestment/GDP                 18.1     20.8       14.6      13.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           25.8     23.1       25.0      25.0
Gross domestcsavings/GDP                    12.3      13.2       7.0       8.9
Gross national savings/GDP                  10.7      10.0      10.3      12.7
Current account balance/GDP                  -7.2    -8.1       4.3       -3.1     DoV
Interest payments/GDP                        1.7      2.4        1.5       1.4      omestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              43.6     70.3       58.6      64.8
Total debtservice/exports                   18.3     39.3       25.7      27.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      .        -.      45.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..      ..    178.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.0      2.2       1.6       1.3       3.5            Kenya -Low-income group
GNP per capita                      0.3    -0.1       0.0       -1.1       1.2
Exports of goods and services       3.0      1.6    -5.8         2.5       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 34.6     30.7       26.4      23.2    20
Industry                                    19.9      18.9      15.8      16.2    10_
Manufacturing                              12.3     11.6      10.4      10.7
Services                                    45.6     50.4       57.8      60.5      a
Private consumption                         68.5     68.9       76.6      73.6    -        410       99   97 .a
General government consumpbon               19.2      17.9      16.4      17.5                    GDl    CGDP
Imports of goods and services               31.6     30.4       32.6      29.6
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports I%l
Agriculture                                  3.2       1.2       1.6       1.3    40
Industry                                     3.7      2.0        1.4       1.0
Manufacturing                               4.7      2.5       1.4       1.0    20
Services                                     4.9       3.5       2.0       1. 6
Private consumpton                           3.8      2.6       -0.5      -6.5     0      4
General government consumpton                2.1       9.6       4.3       7.0 0     .
Gross domestic investment                    0.5      2.5        1.3      -4,0   -20
Imports of goods and services                -0.3     7.5       -4.4      -8.6            -Exports          e mports
Gross national product                       3.9      2.6        2.4       1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 65 -



Kenya
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Infation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         60T
Consumer prices                              10.2     13.5        6.6       3       4
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.6      8.4        9.2       6.8
Govemnment tinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               0.0     25.5       26.6      24.0            94   9s   00   97   9O a        0
Current budget balance                        0.0      2.5        2.5       1.2                  GOP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       0.0     -4.7        0.7      -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         1,128      913      2.012     1,755     4000
Fuel                                        186       42        149       138
Coffee                                      302      153        212       172     3.000
Manufactures                                145      137        220       238                       *      lEflE
Total imports (1ci)                         1,693    1,978      3,331     2,915     2.000 -
Food                                         90      114        312       189              * _ _              _ _
Fuel and energy                             402      315        532       527
Capital goods                               341      497        896       708
Export price index (1995=100)                  72       81         99        85           93  94  ss  g3  97  Ss  99
Import price index (1995=100)                 130      132         86        96                * Exports      U imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      56       61        115        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1979     1989      1998       1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,571    1,905      2,849     2,600     3
Imports of goods and services               1,922    2,417      3,737     3,313
Resource balance                             -351     -511       -888      -713
Net income                                   -224     -244       -160      -180         93                    _
Net current transfers                         124       79       557        564
Current account balance                      -451     -676       -490      -329    -3
Financing items (net)                         754      736       464        378
Changes in net reserves                      -303      -60         26       -49    -r I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (U'S millions)        669      327        783       697
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              7.5     20.6       60.4      70.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998       1999
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,718    5,862      6,724     6,894
IBRD                                        274      889        147        91                       A 9t
IDA                                         149      893      2,198     2,200                G:859
Total debt service                            299      756        743       727
IBRD                                         34      150        84         70                                     2,200
IDA                                           2        8        30         40         F:857
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             116      379        197       185
Official creditors                          189      384         19       -33
Private creditors                           205      163        41        262                                      135
Foreign direct investment                    84       62         11        18           E: 2o0
Portfolio equity                              0        0          4         0              '2 752
World Bank program
Commitments                                 137      393          0         0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                61      245         84        77      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          7       79         81        82      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                    54      165          3        -5
Interest payments                            28       79         33        28
Net transfers                                26       86        -30       -33
World Bank                                                                                                             9/9/00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALAWI: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Malawi    Africa   Income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.5       628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     200       480       520
GNP (At/as method, US$ billions)                       2.1       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (X)                                         2.6        2.6       1.7
Labor force (%)                                        2.3        2.6       1.9     GNP                               Gross
perprmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98),                                per                           primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                15         33       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        43         51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               133         91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              30          ..       ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  60         47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    42         42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    89         77       108                  Matawi
Male                                                  92        84        113                 Low-income group
Female                                                86        69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            0.8       1.2       2.5       1.7
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                24.7     15.7       12.3      13.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP            30.0     25.9       24.3      32.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   20.1      13.3       2.1       0.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   20.1     13.3       -0.3      -3.4
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -5.2       -12.6     -17.1
Interest payments/GDP                         0.9      2.5        1.2       1.6     DomesIc Investment
Total debtGDP                                55.7    117.8       88.5     144.9     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   10.2     33.2       15.1      19.3
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      53.6      83.9
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    215.1       246.1
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  2.2      3.7      5.1        3.1       5.9         -    aai        Lwicm   ru
GNP per capita                      -0.9      0.9      2.5        0.4       3.3             Mabwi       Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        3.7      4.7      12.9       1.5       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     'rowthratesofoutputandinvestmentI%)
(% of GOP)
Agricuiture                                  41.8     49.0       36.3      38.3     2 -
Industry                                     18.7     24.9       17.5      19.0    10 -
Manufacturing                               11.7     16.8       13.6      14.8     0
Services                                     39.6     26.1       46.1      42.7    '1       93
Private consumption                          66.4     67.2       85.3      85.0    .30 _
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  13.5      19.5      12.7      14.3               _     GDI    -      GDP
Imports of goods and services                34.6     28.3       34.5      45.6
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   0.8      6.8        3.9       2.7    so -
Industry                                      1.5      2.2        1.1       5.3
Manufacturing                                2.8      1.7        0.6       5.7    25 -
Services                                      3.3       1.0       8.7       0.5
Private consumption                           0.7       7.1       4.9       6.6                                    978
General govemment consumption                 6.9     -4.0        1.6      -9.5
Gross domestic investment                     -8.6     -7.3       7.1     -27.0    25 -
Imports of goods and services                 -3.8     3.7       11.9       -2.1            -     Exports        imports
Gross national product                        2.2      3.8        5.1       3.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 67 -



Malawi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      199       In8tion (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..    25.2        9.1      22.1     75 -
Implicit GDP deflator                        13.4    14.8        13.4      22.8     so -
Government fnnance                                                                  25
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                  °
Currentrevenue                               10.1    22.8        16.1      22.5             93   94   95   96   97   99
Current budget balance                       -1.8    -2.2        -5.1      -3.8                   GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -6.4    -10.7      -12.3      -6.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    278         567      509    sro -
Tobacco                                        ..    173        331       270
Tea                                            ..     28         69        63
Manufactures                                                                      ao_  
Total imports(af)            *         -               291        783      677
Food                                          ..       2         33        29     30-
Fuel and energy                               ..      40         79        71
Capital goods                                 ..      82        340       285      o
Export pnce index(1995=100)                     ,992              113       99          -2   93   94   95  96   97   s
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       76        93        84              *EExports     lmporus
Terms of trade (t995=100)                      ..    120          121      118
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 213      301       615       549
Imports of goods and services                 300      324       872       769
Resource balance                              -87      -23       -258     -220      '
Netincome                                       ..    -57         -41      -49    .-1o -
Net current transfers                          ..       ..        -19      -20
-is I
Current account balance                         ..    -60        -318      -289
Financing items (net)                          ..       86       265       400      . 0
Changes in net reserves                       -51      -26         53      -111    -25..
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         89       92        310      258
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUlS$)                0.9      2.2      16.4      31.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS mlillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          449    1,367      2,229     2,446
IBRD                                          3      104        34        26                   F 20 G:27  A26
IDA                                          84      509      1,375     1,542            E:249
Totaldebtservice                               22      101         95       111
IBRD                                          0       14          8       13
IDA                                           1        5         18       21         D:501
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..       ..         83      157
Official creditors                           52       83        131      122                    8:1.542
Prvate creditors                             31      -11         *1       -1           c:
Foreign direct investment                     6        0         25       35
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0          0        0      A - 18RO                     E - Bilat,ral
Disbursements                                13       55        107      130      6- IDA    0 Othier mutilateral   F - Prrvate
Prncipal repayments                           0        8         15       21      C - IMF                      G - Short-teni
Nettlows                                     13       47        92       110
Interest payments                             1       12         11       13
Net transfers                                13       35         81       96
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/20199
- 68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RWANDA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Rwanda      Africa   income      Developmentdiamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        8.3       642      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     250       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       2.1       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         1.6        2.6       1.9
Labor force (X)                                        1.9        2.6       2.3     GNP                               Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear avallable, 19939)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty lne)    51
Urban population (% of total population)                 6        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        41        50         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               123        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              ..        32         43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       ..        43         64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    34        39         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   ..        78         96                  Rwanda
Male                                                  ..        85        102                  Low-income group
Female                                                ..        71         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                            1.0      2.4        2.0       2.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                12.0     13.4       15.7      14.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP            21.0      6.1        5.4       5.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   10.3      2.3       -1.7      -1.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.7      2.7        7.4       7.1
Current account balance/GDP                   4.6    -10.8       -8.2      -7.1
Interest payments/GDP                         0.1      0.3        0.6       0.6     Domavin                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                               15.1     25.8       60.0      63.2     Savings                      I
Total debt service/exports                    2.3     18.1       32.9      41.5                         /
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..      ..       34.1      38.5
Present value of debtexports                   ..       ..    570.3       640.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998       1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.8      -2.1     9.5        5.9       5.8                   Rwanda
GNP per capita                      -0.4      -3.5     7.5        3.2       3.2                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        3.5      -6.9     1.9       14.4       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP 1%l
(% of GOP)-
Agriculture                                  53.6     43.3       47.4      45.7
Industry                                     20.5     18.7       21.2      20.5   i'°-
Manufacturing                               14.0     11.2      13.0       11.7     so
Services                                     25.9     38.0       31.4      33.8
Private consumption                          76.6     85.0       90.4      88.7                   WS   Se g  7    9r
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  13.1     12.7       11.3      12.7                    GDI          GP
Imports of gPods and services                22.8     17.3       22.9      21.1
(average annual growth)                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   0.8      -4.0      10.8       5.9    so -
Industry                                      3.8      0.5       11.4       5.9    25-
Manufacturing                                4.1      4.0      10.4        8.4     0_____
Services                                      7.3      -1.7       7.7       5.9                              97     ;
Private consumption                           2.1      0.9        6.6      -0.4    50 
General govemment consumption                 5.8      -3.5      16.9      18.1
Gross domestic investment                     9.1     -0.1       26.4     -12.7        -
Imports of goods and services                 5.4      7.1        8.0     -11.4             -    Exports       imports
Gross national product                        2.7      -2.1      10.2       5.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 69 -



Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation l%)
(% change)                                                                         30 -
Consumer pices                               15.7      1.1        6.8     -2.4      GO
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.1      5.3        2.6     -2.4    40
Govemnment finance                                                                  20
(% of GDOP includes current grants)                                                 °
Current revenue                                 ..    12.7       15.7     13.4    -20 -    94   95   93   97   go
Current budget balance                         ..      0.5        3.8      0,1                   GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -2.9     -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill )
Total exports (fob)                           203       97        64        61     soo -
Coffee                                        ..      59         28       27
Other agriculture                             ..      20         23        18    400 -
Manufactures                                  ..       4         10        15     300-
Total imports(af)                              ..    332         323       281     200
Food                                          ''      29         49       47
Fuel and energy                               ..      48         35       47      100-
Capital goods                                 ..      86         61       44
Export pnce index (1995=t100)                   .,      83       109       106           93   94  95   93  97   9S   so
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       83        99       102                 *Exports      a Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                        ..    101        110       104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                     227      148       111       109       0-
Imports of goods and services                 307      417       462       412
Resource balance                              -80    -269        -351     -304       3
Netincome                                      -3      -10         -7      -10
Netcurrenttransfers                           131   19   191  176  '- Pu
Current account balance                        48     -259       -167     -138
Financing items (net)                         -13      155       185       161
Changes in net reserves                       -35      105        -18      -23    -12 -
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)         152       70       164       186
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)             92.8    80.0       312.3    333.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          156      623      1,213     1,237
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                      F:16
IDA                                          48      302       552       691               E 180
Total debt service                              5       29         40       49
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        3        11        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                             *_
Official grants                              83       96       199       212         D:330        BB:6             1
Official creditors                           33       53        43        27
Prvate creditors                             -1       -3        88        96
Foreign direct investment                    13       16         7         2
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                 C:20
World Bank program
Commitments                                  10       52         0        80      A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                11       32        55        89      a - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           0        1         6         6      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     11       31        49        63
Interest payments                             0        2         5         5
Net transfers                                11       29        44        58
AFTM3
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TANZANIA: Regional Trade Facilitation Project
suo.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low.
Tanzania     Africa  income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       32.9       642      2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     260       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        8.5      321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (X)                                          2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force (X)                                         2.7       2.6       2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita            v          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)                32         34       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        47         50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                85         92        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)              31         32        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X of population)       49         43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    25         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age population)   67         78        96                  Tanzania
Male                                                  67        85        102                  Low-income group
Female                                                66         71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                                      5.3       8.6       8.8
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                          18.1      16.5      17.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                      11.3      12.8      13.3                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             -3.5       2.3       2.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                        2.0       2.2
Current account balance/GDP                            -4.2     -14.5    -14.         om
Interest payments/GDP                                   0.9       1.2       0.4     Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                        110.3      88.5      75.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                             32.5      20.9      11.8                         /
Present value of debtlGDP                                        66.1
Present value of debt/exports                                   496.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   199943
(average annuol growth)
GDP                                           3.0       4.0       4.7       5.7                   Tanzania
GNP per capita                                0.5       2.1       2.5       3.4                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 8.9      9.8        4.7       5.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(3 of GDP)
Agriculture                                            50.7      44.8      44.8    20 -
Industry                                               14.9      15.4      15.4     101
Manufacturing                                         8.5        7.4       7.4              ____v   _______      ^ 
Services                                               34.4      39.8      39.8 19
Private consumption                                    B7.5      86.6      86.2    -20 
General government consumption                         16.0      11.1      116                      GD      -    GDP
Imports of goods and services                         32.9       26.9      28.0
(average annual growth)                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports I%Y
Agriculture                                             3.4       1.9       4.7    40-
Industry                                               2.6       10.3       4.8    20
Manufacturing                                         2.3        8.0       4.9
Services                                               2.5        4.2       4.8     o____
Private consumption                                    2.9        1.3       4.7   -20
General government consumption                         -7.4      -4.5       4.7
Gross domestic investment                              -1.1      14.3       48    -°01
Imports of goods and services                          -2.1      -0.3       4.7                   Expons   I     Imports
Gross national product                                  3.5       4.8       5.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 71 -



Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dom"estic prncs                              1979     1989      1998      1999    I-nnatorn (%).
(% change)                                                                         40 _
Consumer prces                                  .     25.8       12.8      7.9      30
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..    45.9        16.7      9.1     20
Government finance                                                                 s0
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                 D
Current revenue                                ..    11.3        10.8     10.6             94   95   95   97   99   Be
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.0         0.9      0.5             _GDP deflator          C
Overall surplusideficit                        ..    -3.5        -2.6     -3 33
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979    1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    415          577      541     2,000
Coffee                                         ..    103        111        98
Cotton                                                 70        91        90     1500
Manufactures                                  ..      89         68       84
Totai imports (cif                              .    1,211      1,519     1,631    100*
Food                                          ..      81         84       89       __
Fuelandenergy                                 ..     150        138      134
Capital goods                                        443        551      629        o
Export price index (1995=100s)                          79        86        84            93  94  9s  9s  97  9a  9S
Import price index (1995=100)                           89        83        84                  *Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               88        103       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1979      1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                            ..    1,099      1,163      0
Imports of goods and services                            ..    2,314      2,457
Resource balance                                        ..   -1,216    -1,294       -5
Net income                                               ..      -57       -35    -4oD
Net current transfers                                   ..    31    34                 1 W
Current account balance                                 ..   -1,242    -1,295
Financing items (net)                                   ..    1,276       1,424     20 -
Changes in net reserves                         ..      ..        -34     -129    -25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..       599       776
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVIUS$)                     119.4      664.7    744.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      ComposltIon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        4,269    5,854      7,605     6,584
IBRD                                        168      252        21        16                   G0.158  A 18
IBA                                         208    1,016      2,463    2,594                    G
Total debt service                            100      177        239      144
IBRO                                         16       42        14         6                                     B ,9
IDA                                           2       12        33        44
Compositon of net resource flows                                                      E: 2.858S
Official grants                             349      536       648
Official creditors                          139       98       135       -39
Private creditors                            71       24        -15
Foreign direct investment                     0        6       172       183
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         ..Di 535                           27
World Bank program
Commitments                                 143       73        43       159      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                72      115       102       199       - IDA    D-Other multilateral  F - Povate
Principal repayments                          4       28        29        30      C                             - Shortert
Net flows                                    68       87        73       169
Interest payments                            15       26         18       21
Net transfers                                54       61        55       148
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/13/00
- 72 -



Uganda at a glance                                                                  9/9/00
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Uganda      Africa   Income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       21.5       642      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method USS)                      320       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       6.8       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         2.9        2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                        2.7        2.6       2.3     GNP           ,"                 Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   44
Urban population (% oftotal population)                 13        34         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        42        50         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                97        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              26         32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% Of population)       41         43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    38        39         39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   122        78         96                  Uganda
Male                                                 129        85        102                  Low-income group
Female                                               114        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..      5.3        6.8       6.4
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                    ..    11.1       15.0      16.4                     Trd
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP                   ..     8.0       10.3      11.3                      rade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                      ..     1.0        5.6       4.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..     1.9       13.4      10.5
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -6.9       -10.4     -11.6     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      ..        0.6       0.6     Domestc                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..    36.2       53.6      54.3     Savigs                       I
Total debt service/exports                     ..        ..      25.5      23.1
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..      ..       35.0      27.3
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    350.6    225.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.4      7.1      5.6        7.4       6.3                   Uganda
GNP per capita                       0.9      4.1      2.8        4.3       3.3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        1.2     14.8    -14.9       33.0       6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..    56.8        44.6      44.4    60
Industry                                       ..    10.7        17.6      17.8     40
Manufacturing                                 ..      5.9       8.9       8.7      20
Services                                        ..    32.5       37.8      37.8      o
Private consumption           .                 .     92.0       84.8      85.2    -201    94   95   96   97   98   99
General government consumpton                  ..      7.0        9.6       9.9                     GDI    -OGDP
Imports of goods and services                   .      18.1      19.7      22.9
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.7      3.7        1.9       6.9    60
Industry                                      6.4     12.1       11.5       9.1    40 .         t
Manufacturing                                3.6     13.5      14.4       11.3
Services                                      3.2      8.1        6.6       7.2    20
Private consumption                           3.4      6.3        8.6       0.8      o
General government consumption                0.6      8.2        8.0      17.4            94 9    96   97
Gross domestic investment                    13.1      8.2        3.7       9.0   -20
Imports of goods and seMces                   7.3      9.0        3.1       2.8                   Exports    -o    Iports
Gross national product                        3.5      7.3        5.8       7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 73 -



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic onces
(% change)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                                ..   131.0         5.8      -0.2    20
ImplicitGDPdeflator                            ..   115.4        10.7       4.4
10
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o      94   ss   96   97   98   99
Current revenue                                 ..     5.5       10.3      10.9    -10
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.3         0.9       0.9             -    GDP deator  -OCPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..      4.8       -5.6      -5.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    282       458        549     1.o0-
Coffee                                        ..    276         269       307
Cotton                                        ..       ..        11        11
Manufactures                                                                      1,000
Total imports (cifl                                    562      1,411     1,376
Food                                                                               5
Fuel and energy                               ..      76         84        65
Capital goods                                 ..        .         ..        .
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       92        74        67            93  94  3s  96  97  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      79       106        101                  mExports      bImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      117        70         67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999       Current account batance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..    304        634       726       °
Imports of goods and services                   ..    712       1,871     1,834
Resource balance                                ..   -408    -1,237    -1,107        3
Net income                                      ..    -66          -9       -14
Net current transfers                          ..      114       539        375
Current account balance                        ..   -360         -706      -746                   I                    I
Financing items (net)                          ..    342         840        780
Changes in net reserves                         ..      18       -134       -33
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       46       750       748
Conversion rate (DEC, localAUS$)                     170.4   1,149.7   1,362.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   1,903      3,631     3,480
IBRD                                         ..       24         0          0                     F: 59
IDA                                           ..    605       1,971     2,042
E, 644
Total debt service                             ..       ..       172        179
IBRD                                          .        5         0          0
IDA                                           ..       5        24        25
Composition of net resource flows                                                       E: 385
Official grants                              36      177       433       277                                     B 2,042
Officiat creditors                           ..                220        188
Private creditors                            ..        °         1         4
Foreign direct investment                     2        2       200       230            C: 351
Portfolio equity                                       0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0      141       172       267      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        100       242       148      a - IDA    D - Othermulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                   4        10         10     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                             96       231        138
Interest payments                            ..        6        14         15
Net transfers                                ..       90       217        123
World Bank                                                                                                             919/00
- 74 -



Zambia at a glance                                                              9/9/00
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Zambia     Africa  Income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (mi/lions)                      9.9       642     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   330       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      3.2      321       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       2.5        2.6      1.9     G
Labor force (%)                                      2.8        2.6      2.3     GNP                            pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita         " ,"         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  73
Urban population (% of total population)              44        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      45        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             114        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            27        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)     43        43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  22        39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  89        78        96                 Zambia
Male                                                92        85       102                 Low-income group
Female                                              86        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                          3.3      4.0        3.2      3.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP              14.2    10.8        16.3     17.5                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          45.6    26.8        26.7     22.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 23.2      3.8        3.9     -1.1
Gross national saAngs/GDP                   15.0    -7.1       -3.6     -6.6
Current account balancelGDP                  1.1     -5.6     -17.8    -15.8
Interest payments/GDP                       2.8       1.9       2.8      5.2     Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GOP                              91.3   168.0      215.5    206.9     Savings
Total debt servire/exports                  22.1     13.6      25.8     38.1
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..       ..    170.3    125.7
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    575.9    454.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.1      0.2    -1.9        2.4      4.7             -     Zambia
GNP per capita                     -3.2    -1.8    -5.1         2.2      2.6             -     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -3.1     2.9      5.0       4.9      118
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998     1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        0
Agnculture                                 16.5    21.2        21.2     246      100
Industry                                      .        .       29.1     24.5      s
Manufacturing                               ..       ..      13.0      12.0      a'
Services                                                      49.7      50.9    -so            5 s  s    97   98   99
Private consumption                        52.9    82.5        84.9     91.5    -so0
Generalgovernmentconsumpton                23.9    13.7        11.2      9.6                    GD1     O GDP
Imports of goods and services              36.6    33.8        39.2     40.9
(average annual growth)                 1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.6     3.4        1.8      13.7    20
Industry                                      .      -3.6     -11.3     -4.9      °    i\
Manufacturing                                .      3.3       1.8       2.8
Services                                     ..      5.7        4.4      5.2
94   95     5~~~~7 99   99
Private consumption                         3.2      0.4       -1.3      2.6   -10
General govemment consumpton                -3.8    -5.5      -14.8    -15.8
Gross domestic investment                  -3.6      3.3        9.3      8.7   -20
Imports of goods and services               -2.3     1.3        4.6      1.6                 Exports    --imports
Gross natonal product                      -0.2      0.9       -2.9      4.4            _      _
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 75 -



Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation I%)
Domestic pnces
(% change)                                                                         200
Consumer prices                               9.7    127.7       24.4      26.8    150
Implicit GDP deflator                        21.3     80.9       19.6      21.7    too 
Govemment finance                                                                   so
(% of GoP, includes current grants)                                                 o00,                 ,     
Currentrevenue                                        18.6       18.7      17.6             94   95   96   97   ga   99
Current budget balance                                -4.4        1.4       2.6            -     GDP deflator  eO*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               64.6       -9.8     -10.0 10
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         1,408    1,410       816       755      1.200
Copper                                              1,233       365       372
Cobalt                                                84        155        95      90 _             -        _
Manufactures                                          36        194       188
Total imports (cif)                           756      901       971       871       r00
Food                                                  14        108         0      300
Fuel and energy                                      103         42       115
Capital goods                                        372        539       523
Export pnce index (1995=100)                            92        70        69            9     4 9    6 9    8 9
Import Price index (1995=100)                  55       79        87        88                 OExqrts       Ehnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              116        81        79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ miltions)                                        1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services               1,523    1,493       919       842 o
Imports of goods and services               1.212    1,281      1,253     1,169          **
Resource balance                              311      212       -334      -327
Net income                                   -169     -406       -215      -156
Net current transfers                        -105      -28        -27       -16        1      I     I     I
Current account balance                        37     -222       -576     -499    '-121I
Financing items (net)                        -146      487       365       518
Changes in net reserves                       109     -265       211        -19     -a
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        191      123        69        50
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              0.8     13.8   1,862.0   2,388.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,047    6,709      6,982     6,518
IBRD                                        336      501        42        33                    G 329 A 33
IDA                                           1      253      1,562     1,704              F: 1
Total debt service                            340      206       247       331                                   s 1,704
lBRD                                        41         0        25        12
IDA                                           0        0        16        16
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              58      194       257       214        E: 2,895
Official creditors                         305        90        -54       66
Private creditors                             1       11        -11       -20                                   C: 1.171
Foreign direct investment                    35      164        72       163
Portfolio equity                              -                                                       0: 265
World Bank program
Commitments                                  11        0        75       213      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                28        4        43       156      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Pivate
Principal repayments                         13        0        25        13      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     16        4        18       143
Interest payments                            29        0        16        15
Net transfers                               -13        4         2       128
World Bank                                                                                                            9/9/00
- 76 -



