Y   t




                                                CREDIT NUMBER 3488 RAF




        Development Credit Agreement

                 (Regional Trade Facilitation Project)


                               between


           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                 and


              AFRICAN TRADE INSURANCE AGENCY




               Dated             S                 , 2001
                                                         CREDIT NUMBER 3488 RAF


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated 'J U/&L (        , 2001 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AFRICAN TRADE
INSURANCE AGENCY (ATI) (the Borrower).

        WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain financial resources from the
Participating States for the purpose of implementing the Regional Trade Facilitation
Project, and, to this end, intends to enter into Participation Agreements with the
Participating States;

         WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project; and

        WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                      ARTICLE I

                            General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6,
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 (the General Conditions), constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
                                           -2-


        (a)    "Agreement Establishing ATI" means the agreement adopted by the
Fifth Summit of Heads of States and Governments of the Common Market for Eastern
and Southern Africa in Grand Baie, Republic of Mauritius on May 18, 2000, as such
Agreement may be amended from time to time;

      (b)     "ATI" means the African Trade Insurance Agency, established under the
Agreement Establishing ATI;

        (c)     "Civil Commotion" has the meaning given to such expression in the
general conditions of insurance included in the Standard Form of Insurance Contract;

        (d)      "Claim" means the amount claimed by an Insured (as hereinafter
defined) as payable by ATI or by the Insurers (as hereinafter defined), as the case may
be, pursuant to an Insurance Contract;

         (e)     "Covered Risks" means the risks specified in Chapter 3 of Part 1 (The
Imports Facility) and Part 2 (The Exports Facility) of the Operations Manual (as
hereinafter defined) and defined in the general conditions of insurance included in the
Standard Form of Insurance Contract (as hereinafter defined), and includes such other
risks as may be agreed upon by the Association and ATI at any time;

        (f)      "Embargo" has the meaning given to such expression in the general
conditions of insurance included in the Standard Form of Insurance Contract (as
hereinafter defined);

        (g)     "Insurance Contract" means any contract for the provision of insurance
against Covered Risks issued under the Insurance Facility to an Insured (as hereinafter
defined) by ATI or the Insurers (as hereinafter defined), as the case may be, and which
contains terms and conditions substantially similar to those specified in the Standard
Form of Insurance Contract (as hereinafter defined);

          (h)     "Insurance Facility" and "Insurance" mean, respectively, the insurance
facility specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the insurance provided thereunder;

         (i)     "Insurance Facility Agreement" and "Insurance Facility Agreements"
mean, respectively, the insurance facility agreement in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association, between the Insurers and ATI, as such agreement may be amended with
the approval of the Insurers (as hereinafter defined), ATI and the Association, and,
collectively, the Insurance Facility Agreement and the Security Trust Agreement(s) (as
hereinafter defined);
                                            -3-


        (j)      "Insured" means a natural or juridical person to whom ATI or the
Insurers, as the case may be, has issued an Insurance Contract in accordance with the
Operations Manual (as hereinafter defined);

         (k)     "Insurers" means, collectively, the insurers, whether acting alone or
participating in a syndicate of insurers, that subscribe to the Insurance Facility from time
to time, and includes any other insurer approved by Al'! and the Association at any time;

         (1)     "Operations Manual" means the manual, dated February 22, 2001 for
purposes of identification, to be adopted by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement, which, collectively, consists of Part 1: The Imports Facility, Part 2: The
Exports Facility, Part 3: The Environment Operations Manual, and Part 4: The Financial
Management Manual, and which sets out the operating policies, rules and procedures to
be applied and observed by ATI in connection with the operation of the Insurance
Facility and related matters, as said manual may be amended by ATI with the approval of
the Association and the Insurers;

       (m)    "Participating State" means any African state which has either ratified
the Agreement Establishing ATI, or deposited an instrument of accession to the
Agreement Establishing ATI;

       (n)      "Participation Agreement" means the participation agreement, in form
and substance acceptable to the Association, to be entered into between the Borrower and
each Participating State, as such participation agreement may be amended from time to
time;

        (o)     "Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement to be concluded
between the Association and ATI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;

        (p)     "Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

         (q)     "Protocol" means the COMESA Protocol on Transit Trade and Trade
Facilities annexed to the Treaty Establishing COMESA as Annex I;

        (r)     "Security Trust Account" means an interest-bearing, Dollar denominated
trust account opened at a Security Trust Account Trustee (as hereinafter defined), on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, by ATI in the name of the
Borrower, into which all or a part only of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn by ATI in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Participation
                                             -4-


Agreement shall be deposited and thereafter to be managed in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the relevant Security Trust Agreement;

        (s)      "Security Trust Account Trustee" means a commercial bank of
recognized standing, approved by the Association, acting as trustee pursuant to a
Security Trust Agreement (as hereinafter defined) in respect of the funds held in the
relevant Security Trust Account, and includes any successor thereto or assignee thereof
acceptable to the Insurers and the Association;

        (t)      "Security Trust Agreement" means a security agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, among ATI, the Insurers and a Security Trust
Account Trustee, pursuant to which, inter alia, the legal title in the funds held in the
relevant Security Trust Account is declared to be held by the relevant Security Trust
Account Trustee on trust for the Insurers for application in the manner set out therein, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Insurers,
ATI, the relevant Security Trust Account Trustee and the Association;

        (u)     "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;

         (v)     "Standard Form of Insurance Contract" means the standard form of
Insurance Contract, dated February 22, 2001 for purposes of identification, approved by
the Association, the Insurers and ATI for purposes of the Insurance Facility, and which,
collectively, includes: (i) an application form, (ii) an insurance offer letter, (iii) general
conditions of insurance, which general conditions contain the standard terms and
conditions of the Insurance Contracts, and (iv) a commitment letter, as said standard
form may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, the
Insurers and ATI; and

        (w) "War or Civil Disturbance" has the meaning given to such expression in
the general conditions of insurance included in the Standard Form of Insurance Contract.


                                        ARTICLE II

                                         The Credit

        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
                                            -5-


        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.

         (b)     The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in its books in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.

         Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1 /2 of 1%) per annum.

         (b)      The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

         (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.

         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
                                            -6-


       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

        Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2011 and ending March 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021,
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1 114 %) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (21/2%) of such principal amount.

         (b)      Whenever: (i) the sum of the per capita gross national products (GNP) of
the Participating States, each weighted by the respective share of such Participating State
in the Borrower's capital, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for determining
eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review
and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Participating States' economy, modify
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above, by:

                (A)      requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                         installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
                         shall have been repaid; and

                (B)      requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal
                         amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date
                         referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more
                         after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower
                         that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred,
                         provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a
                         minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.

        (c)      If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.

        (d)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Participating States' economic conditions
                                           -7-


have deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower,
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.

         Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.

                                     ARTICLE III

                                Execution of the Project

        Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. To this end, without any limitation
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower:

         (a)     shall duly and punctually perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Agreement Establishing ATI and the respective Participation Agreements, all its
obligations therein set forth and shall exercise its rights thereunder in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit; and

         (b)      shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ATI to
realize the purposes for which it was created under the Agreement Establishing ATI, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
realization or the fulfillment of the objectives of the Project.

        Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

        Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

         (a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
                                             -8-


        (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.




                                       ARTICLE IV

                                   Financial Covenants

         Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, and, to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to
the Project.

        (b)      The Borrower shall:

                 (i)     have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
                         sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                         statements) and the records and accounts for the Special
                         Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                         appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                         independent auditors acceptable to the Association;

                 (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
                         not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A)
                         certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the
                         records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                         for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                         said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                         shall have reasonably requested; and

                 (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                         said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                         audit thereof as the Association shall have from time to time
                         reasonably requested.

        (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                                                -9-


                     (i)      maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                              records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;

                     (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
                              the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                              from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                              orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                              such expenditures;

                      (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                              records; and

-^^                   (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
                              audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                              report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
                              as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of
                              expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
                              procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                              can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

              Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the
      Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in
      order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as the
      Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to
      the Association, each of which:

                      (i)     (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the
                              Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said
                              report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the
                              Project for the six-month period following the period covered by
                              said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out
                              of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said
                              report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
                              proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the
                              period covered by said report;

                      (ii)    (A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
                              cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B)
                              explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
                              implementation targets; and
                                           -10-


                (iii)   sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and
                        expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the
                        Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.

         (b)      Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.

                                      ARTICLE V

                              Remedies of the Association

        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:

        (a)      any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;

        (b)     in the opinion of the Association, the Agreement Establishing ATI shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement or the Project Agreement; and

        (c)     a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation of
the Borrower.                                                                                "O   N
         Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a)
or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                     ARTICLE VI

                              Effective Date; Termination

         Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
                                                   -11-


                 (a)     the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting
         system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;

                 (b)      the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in
         Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

                  (c)      the Borrower has adopted the Operations Manual in form and substance
         satisfactory to the Association.

                 Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
         specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                              ARTICLE VII

                               Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

                 Section 7.01 The Managing Director of ATI is designated as representative of
         the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

                 Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
         Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

                 For the Borrower:

                         African Trade Insurance Agency
                         P.O. Box 30027
                         Nairobi
le   '                   Kenya

                 For the Association:

                         International Development Association
                         1818 H Street, N.W.
                         Washington, D.C. 20433
                         United States of America


                         Cable address:                   Telex:                   Facsimile:
                         INDEVAS                          248423 (MCI) or          (202) 477-6391
                         Washington, D.C.                  64145 (MCI)
                                         -12-



        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Durban, South Africa, as of the day and year first above written.



                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                By 5             <5      l ^^^
                                                           Regional Vice President
                                                                            Africa




                                AFRICAN TRADE INSURANCE AGENCY




                                B y 11 a S j
                                                          Authorized Representative
                                           13-


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                        Amount of the
                                       Credit Allocated                %of
                                        (Expressed in              Expenditures
       Category                        SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed


(1)   Materials and equipment                 114,000                  100%

(2)   Vehicles                                   93,000                100%

(3)    Consultants' services                  929,000                  100%
       and Training

(4) Operating Costs                         2,516,000                  100% during the
first
                                                                       year, 75% during
the
                                                                       first half of the
                                                                       second year, and
                                                                       50% during the
                                                                       second half of the
                                                                       second year

(5)    Unallocated                            248,000


       TOTAL                                3,900,000


2.       For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs" means
expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation and shall
include expenditures related to maintenance and operation of vehicles, office supplies,
utilities, expenditures for telephones, faxes, travel expenditures for ATI staff, and
salaries for ATI staff.
                                           -14-


3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
380,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 2001.

4.       It is understood that the percentage of expenditures to be financed under
Categories (1) through (3) of this Schedule has been calculated on the basis of the
provisions in the Agreement Establishing the Common Market for Eastern and Southern
Africa (COMESA), the Agreement Establishing ATI and the Agreement on Privileges
and Immunities granted to the Borrower, which exempt the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit from taxes and custom duties levied in the territories of
the Participating States. If any change is made to said Agreement Establishing
COMESA, Agreement Establishing ATI or said Protocol, which has the effect of levying
taxes or custom duties on such goods and services, the percentage referred to above shall
be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions.

5.      The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods
and for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;
(b) under contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each; (c) for training; and (d) operating costs; all under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                          - 15 -


                                     SCHEDULE2

                                Description of the Project

        The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to develop and
implement a scheme for the provision of insurance, including coinsurance and
reinsurance, guarantees and other financial instruments and services for the purposes of
promoting trade, investment and other productive activities in Africa.

        The Project consists of the following part, subject to modification thereof as the
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives.

Operational Support

        Assisting the Borrower in carrying out its functions as specified in the
Agreement Establishing ATI through the provision and financing of technical advisory
services, acquisition of equipment and vehicles, training of staff and operating costs.




        The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
                                                -16-


                                       SCHEDULE 3

                          Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.         Procurement of Goods
Part A:            General
1.      Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this
Section I.

2.       In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".

Part B:            International Competitive Bidding

        Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

Part: C:           Other Procurement Procedures

           International or National Shopping

        Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $270,000 equivalent, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

Part D:            Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

           Procurement Planning

       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the
                                          -17-


Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.        Prior Review

        With respect to the first five contracts for goods, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.        Post Review

       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.      Employment of Consultants

Part A:          General

1.       Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of
the Introduction and Section N of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of
the following Parts of this Section II.

2.       In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".

Part B:          Oualitk- and Cost-based Selection

1.       Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto,
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and
cost-based selection of consultants.

2.     The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services for the Project to cost less than $50,000
                                            -18-


equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants of the Member
States, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part C:           Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

I.        Least-cost Selection

        Services for tasks of a standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.        Selection Based on Consultants' Oualifications

        Services relating to small assignments and estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $235,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

3.        Individual Consultants

       Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:           Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants

1.        Selection Planning

       Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.        Prior Review
                                           -19-


         (a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

       (b)      With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.

3.      Post Review

         With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference and the short list of all consultants
shall be communicated to the Association for prior review and approval.
                                           -20 -


                                      SCHEDULE 4

                                 Implementation Program

General

 1.      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual. The Borrower shall
not amend said Manual or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the
Association, would materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or
the objectives thereof.

2.        The Borrower shall :

        (a)      maintain at all times the Board of Directors assisted by competent staff
and consultants in adequate number and with qualifications and experience and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and

        (b)     ensure that the Board of Directors meet and be consulted on a regular
basis on the implementation of the Project.

Monitoring and Evaluation

3.        The Borrower shall:

        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the agreed indicators specified in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;

        (b)      prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, beginning December 31, 2001, and thereafter on or about
December 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
                                            -21-


        (c)       review with the Association, by June 30 of each year, or such later date
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section,
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the matter;

         (d)     carry out jointly with the Association not later than thirty-six months
after the Effective Date, a midterm review which shall assess the overall progress in the
execution of the Project and evaluate progress in the financial management system to
allow for preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports to the Association in
accordance with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; and

         (e)     based on the reviews referred to in above paragraphs (c) and (d), prepare
an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the
Project, and thereafter, implement such action plan with due diligence and efficiency.
                                             -22-


                                      SCHEDULE 5

                                     Special Account

        For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

        (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and

         (c)     the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
US$500,000 pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to US$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

         (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

        (b)    (i)       For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                         furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
                         Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
                                                  -23 -


                      (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                               furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
                               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
                               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                               the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                               by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
                               the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
      the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
      been justified by said documents and other evidence.

      4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
      Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
      Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
      exclusively for eligible expenditures.

      5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
      shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

              (a)      if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
      withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
      accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
      of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

"'`            (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
      period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
      reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
      the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

              (c)     if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
      intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
      from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
      Conditions; or

               (d)     once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
      Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
      by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
      Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
                                           -24-


Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.       (a)      If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

         (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.

        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

         (d)     Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                                           -25 -



                                     SCHEDULE 6

                       Modifications to the General Conditions

       For the purpose of this Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

1.       The word "member of the Association" in paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is deleted
and replaced by the word "the Party to the Development Credit Agreement" to which the
Credit is granted.

2.      The words "the currency of the country" in paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 are
deleted and replaced by the words "the currency of the Participating States".

3.      A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the
existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are accordingly renumbered as
paragraphs 13 through 15:

                "12.    `Participating Country' means any country that the Association
       determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of
       the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and
       `Participating Countries' means, collectively, all such countries.".

4.     A new paragraph 16 is added to Section 2.01 to read as follows:

                "16. The term `Participating States' means the African states which
        have ratified the Agreement Establishing the Africa Trade Insurance Agency."

5.      The words "in the currency of the Borrower" in Section 4.01 are deleted and
replaced by the words "in the currency of the Participating States".

6.      The words "the Borrower" in Section 4.06 (b) are deleted and replaced by the
words "the Participating States".

7.      The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

                "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
        withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
        any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or
        services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
                                            -26-


        persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
        knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
        Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

8.      The words "any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower" in section
5.08 are deleted and replaced by the words "any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Participating States".

9.      Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the following new
paragraph:

                "(e)    all of the Participating States: (i) shall have been suspended
        from membership in or ceased to be a member of the Association; or (ii) shall
        have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary Fund".

10.     Section 8.01 is deleted and replaced by the following Section:

                 "Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the
        Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or
        in the territories of, the Participating States.

                 (b)      The Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to
        which these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or
        in the territory of, the Participating States on or in connection with the execution,
        delivery or registration thereof."

11.     Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following
paragraph:

                 "(b)     The Borrower shall take all action necessary or useful to ensure
        that the Participating States afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives
        of the Association to visit any part of their territories for purposes related to the
        Credit."

12.     Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following Section:

                "Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The Borrower shall
        furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
        reasonably request with respect to the financial and economic conditions of ATI
        as well as with respect to its own financial condition and that of any entity
        owned or controlled, or operating for the account or benefit of the Borrower."
                                              -27-


    13.      The words "notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof
    to the contrary" in Section 10.01 are deleted and replaced by the words "notwithstanding
    the law of any Participating State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary".

    14.     The word "governmental" in paragraph (a) of Section 12.01 is deleted and
    replaced by the word "corporate".




W
                                           -28-


                                      SCHEDULE 7

                                Performance Indicators

Primary Indicators

1.       Issuance of Insurance Contracts in an aggregate principal amount of one hundred
and twenty-eight million Dollars ($128,000,000) or equivalent by the third anniversary
of the Effective Date and Insurance Contracts in an aggregate principal amount of one
billion two hundred and eighty million Dollars ($1,280,000,000) or equivalent by the
tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, all in respect of transactions pertaining to the
Participating States as at the date of this Agreement.

2.    The operations of ATI are self-financing after three years following the
commencement of its operations.

3.       For each Participating State, on average, in any twelve-month period
commencing on the Effective Date, fewer than one Claim per year resulting from
Covered Risks other than War or Civil Disturbance, Civil Commotion or Embargo has
been made, which Claim, in the opinion of the Association, would have arisen as a result
of the action or omission of the Government of such Participating State.

4.      Signature and delivery of insurance facility agreements.

Secondary Indicators

1.      The Project has catalyzed the introduction of comprehensive trade credit
insurance available within the Participating States' territories.

2.       On average, in any twelve-month period commencing on the Effective Date,
                                                                                              0
there has been a ten per cent (10%) increase per annum in the volume of bank lending for
trade transactions pertaining to the Participating States (including both local and foreign
banks).

3.      A decreasing trend in cost and an increasing trend in maturity of trade finance
available for transactions pertaining to the Participating States — to be measured by
surveying users of the Insurance Facility.

4.       An increasing number of States participate in the insurance facility over the life
of the Project.
j.

                                                 -29-


     5.        A broadening of ATI's client base within the Participating States' territories over
     the life of the Project.
            I.




:iiWia                    CERTIFICATE




I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.




For Vice President and Corporate Secretary
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
