Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 23094-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.6 MILLION
(US$ 30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE US$500 MILLION MULTI-COUNTRY
HIV/AIDS PROGRAM (MAP2) (APL) FOR THE AFRICA REGION
December 20, 2001
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective December 17, 2001)
Currency Unit  =    CFA Franc
CFAF 727    =    US$1
US$1    =    CFAF 727
FSCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS              Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL                Adaptable Program Loan
ARV               Anti-retroviral (Drugs)
ART                Anti-Retroviral Treatment
ASPEN              Africa Safeguard Policy Enhancement Team
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CNLS               Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA
CBO                Community-Based Organization
CREA               Center for Applied Economic Research
CSW                Commercial Sex Worker
DAC                Departmental AIDS Committee
EA                 Environmental Assessment
ECOMOG             Economic Community of West African States' Monitoring
Group
FMA               Financial Management Agent
FHI/USAID          Family Health International/ United States Agency for
International Development
FBO               Faith Based-Organization
FMR               Financial Management Report
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
HAART              Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy
HIV               Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA               International Development Association
IEC               Information, Education & Communication
IDU               Injection Drug Users
IAPSO              Inter-Agency Procurement Support Office
ILO               International Labor Organization
ISAARV            Initiative Senegalaise d'Acces aux Anti-retroviraux
MAP II            Multi-country HLV/AIDS Program II
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHP              Ministry of Health and Prevention
MSM                Men Having Sex with Men
NES               National Executive Secretariat
MTCT              Mitigation of HIV/AIDS mother to child transmission
NGO               Non-Governmental Association



NPV                Net Present Value
NSP                National Strategic Plan
01                 Opportunistic Infections
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
POM                Project Operational Manual
PLWHA              People Living with HIV/AIDS
PMCT               Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
PNA                Phannacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement
PNLS               Programme National de Lutte Contre le SIDA
PMR                Project Management Report
STI                Sexually Transmitted Infection
RAC                Regional Aids Committee
STD                Sexually Transmitted Disease
SWAA               The Society for Women Against AIDS in Africa
TB                 Tuberculosis
TTL                Task Team Leader
UNAIDS             Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activities
VCT                Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO                World Health Organization
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:  Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Anwar Bach-Baouab



SENEGAL
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A.   Project Development Objective                                                2
1. Project development objective                                              2
2. Key performance indicators                                                 2
B.   Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported t          3
by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic                 5
choices
C.   Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                         9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project              13
3. Benefits and target population                                             14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                              14
D.   Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                 19
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                       20
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other                     22
development agencies
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                          24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                               25
E.   Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                  25
2. Financial                                                                 26
3. Technical                                                                 27
4. Institutional                                                             27
5. Environrental                                                             29
6. Social                                                                    30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                        31
F    Sustainability and Risks



2. Critical risks                                                             33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                             34
G.   Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions                                                   34
2. Other                                                                      34
H.   Readiness for Implementation                                                  35
I.   Compliance with Bank Policies                                                 35
Annexes
Annex 1:     Project Design Summary                                           36
Annex 2:     Detailed Project Description                                     42
Annex 3:     Estimated Project Costs                                          48
Annex 4:     Economic and Financial Analysis                                  49
Annex 5:     Financial Summary                                                63
Annex 6:     Technical Analysis                                               65
Annex 7:    Institutional Analysis and Implementation                         88
Arrangements
Annex 8:     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                        99
Annex 9:     Monitoring & Evaluation                                          II1
Annex 10:    Project Supervision Plan                                         115
Annex 11:    Project Processing Schedule                                     117
Annex 12:    Documents in the Project File                                   118
Annex 13:    Statement of Loans and Credits                                  119
Annex 14:    Country at a Glance                                             121
Annex 15:    Senegal HIV/AIDS Brief                                           123
MAP(S) IBRD 31726                                                             124



1
SENEGAL
HIV/AIDS Prevention ad Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: December 18, 2001                            Team Leader: Anwar Bach-Baouab
Country Director: John Mchntire                   Sector Manager: Alexandre V. Abrantes
Project ID: P074059                               Sector(s): HA-HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[] Loan     [XI Credit  [I       [I] Guarantee  [I Other:
Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $30.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace Period (years): 10                      Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                       Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):  Source                                 Local   Foreign  Total
BORROWER                                                         0.73    0.09    0.82
IDA                                                             21.73    8.27    30.0
COMMUNITY/NGO                                                    1.39    0.00     1.39
Total:                                                         23.85    8.36    32.21
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: MULTI-SECTOR GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
Ministry of Health and Prevention
Address: Building Administratif, Dakar, Senegal
Contact Person: Dr. Mandiaye Loume, Director of Health
Tel: (221) 860 3287          Fax: (221) 860 3287    Email:dirsante@sentoo.sn
Other Agency(ies):
Conseil National de Lutte Contre le SIDA
Secretariat Executif
Contact Person: Dr. Ibra Ndoye, Secretaire Executif National
Tel: (221) 822 9045          Fax: (221) 822 1517    Email: INdoye@telecomplus.sn
Address: HLM1 No. 147 Dakar
B.P. 10403, Dakar, Senegal
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY            2002      2003     2004      2005    2006      2007
Annual        2.1       6.0      7.0       5.5    7.2        2.2
Cumulative    2.1       8.1      15.1      20.6   27.8       30.0
Project Implementation period: January 2002-April 2007
Expected effectiveness date: April 2002   i Expected closing date: September 30, 2007



2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.1. The overall development objective of the project is to assist the Government in:
(i) preventing the spread of H[V/AIDS by reducing transmission among high risk groups;
(ii) expanding access to treatment, care and support for people living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA) in Senegal to serve as a pilot for the implementation of Anti-Retroviral
Treatment (ART) in Sub-Saharan Africa; and (iii) supporting civil society and community
initiatives for HIV/AITDS prevention and care. The project will support the implementation
of Senegal's strategic plan against HIV/AIDS for the period 2002-2006 (Plan National de
Lutte Contre le SIDA-PNLS), and promote civil society and community initiatives for
prevention and care, put forward by beneficiary groups selected on the basis of the
technical quality and likely impact of their proposals. The plan's specific goals are to:
* keep the prevalence level of HIV below 3% by 2006;
*  mitigate the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at individual,
household and community levels; and
* create an enabling environment for a broader and stronger public/private
partnership to implement the plan.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
2.1. The following constitute the summary outcome and process indicators of the project.
Given the nature of the epidemic and the experience in other countries, it would be difficult
to achieve measurable impact in terms of reduction of HIV/AIDS prevalence in the overall
adult population, or increased life expectancy, within the project period. However,
measurable impact can be expected among certain target groups as set forth below in the
outcome indicators. A more extensive list of indicators appears in the logical framework
(Annex 1).
a. Outcome indicators
By 2006:
* 65% of adult males report using a condom with a casual partner during their last
sexual encounter;
* 60% of women aged 20 to 49 report using a condom with an irregular partner
during their last sexual encounter;
*  80% of women aged 20 to 49 report knowledge of at least two methods of
protection against HIV/AIDS;
* 70% of commercial sex workers and 80% of the members of uniformed services
report using condoms during their last sexual encounter with a non-regular partner;
* by 2006, reduce the prevalence among commercial sex workers of Trichonomas
from 15% to 10%, Gonococcie from 4% to 2% and Syphilis from 20% to 15%;
*  60% of women attending pre-natal clinics accept voluntary testing for HIV;



3
* Increase the level of Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) acceptance among
the population by 10% every year;
* Reduce the rate of mother to child transmission from 30% to 15%;
b. Process/output indicators
* 90% of all ministries have incorporated HIV/AIDS prevention in their work plans
and budgets;
*  All levels and branches of education system implement the HIV/AIDS curricula;
*  100% of health centers have improved blood safety and safe injection practices;
*  80% of personnel in the health system are trained to provide comprehensive care of
STIs and Ols;
* HIV/AIDS reference facilities in all 10 regions of the Country, providing regular
integrated treatment and care for Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs), TB,
opportunistic infections (Ols), mitigation of mother to child infection, and ARV
treatment, with counseling and medication;
*  95% of PLWHA are under ARV treatment receive psycho-social support;
*  80% of registered orphaned children receive social support at community level;
*  7,000 people have received ARV treatment.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 17269-SE Date of latest CAS discussion: January 29, 1998
1.1. The 1998 CAS recognized that the low prevalence of HIV/AIDS offered no guarantee
against an epidemic unless additional preventive measures were taken. It also encouraged
the Government to increase per capita spending to that end. Preliminary consultations
(May 2001) with regard to the CAS under preparation were conducted with focus groups
in all of Senegal's 10 regions. These focus groups included youth, women, vulnerable
groups, NGOs and regional and communal authorities. All groups clearly identified the
need for an intensified HIV/AIDS prevention campaign, with advice and support available
at the community level.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1. Senegal continues to shoulder a heavy burden of preventable HIV diseases. In this
regard, it has implemented a policy shift toward the prevention of disease through the
decentralization of health services and through the involvement of beneficiaries and NGOs,
particularly in the management and implementation of programs. However, these effo,
risk being undermined by Senegal's rapid population growth and still high but stable WHV
prevalence rates among specific high risk groups [15% of Commercial Sex Workers
(CSW) are sero-positive]. Furthermore, the extent of behavior change is limited compared
to the high level of awareness. A significant effort for the promotion of safer sexual
behavior is required, and, to raise the median age of first sexual contact. The population is
expected to reach 16 million in 2020, almost doubling from 2000 (9.4 million), pushing the



4
urban population to about 9 million people. This increase will exert unrelenting pressure
on social services, and in the event of weakening economic conditions, poses a major
threat of increased prevalence of communicable diseases, notably fHV/AIDS. Senegal
regards its development plan for the period 2002-2006 as the last reliable window of
opportunity for full containment of HIV/AIDS and STDs.
2.2. Senegal has a reasonable chance of significantly reducing HIV infections during the
next five years. Factors which have helped Senegal's success in maintaining one of the
lowest prevalences in the region and which favor further reduction of new infections are:
* strong commitment at the highest level of Government and civil society;
* an early and unanimous decision (1986) to confront STD and contain HIV
infections;
* consistent and sustained strategic direction and management of the program;
* a high level of sensitization to the issues on the part of civil society, the private
sector and Government, leading to strategic alliances between Muslims and
Catholics, the NGOs and key groups such as PLWHA, women, youth and high risk
groups;
* strong capacity for policy formulation and strategic planning;
* a good network of primary, secondary and tertiary health care facilities;
* tested delivery systems and increasingly robust mechanisms for M&E and
grassroots participation;
* the development of best practices with the assistance of major international
research institutions, now disseminated widely in the Region.
2.3. The 2002-2006 National Strategic Plan Against HIV/AIDS in Senegal was developed
and adopted through a multisectoral consultative process in 2001 and is considered by
Government an integral part of the broader framework for poverty alleviation. It builds on
the earlier National Strategic Plans, and constitutes a synopsis of sector strategic plans that
were elaborated through a series of consultations within each sector. The multi-sector plan
involves government ministries, private sector and civil society, and stresses the need for
partnership among all the actors on the ground to ensure a coordinated, localized response
to reducing the spread of HIV infections and the socio-economic impact of AIDS.
2.4. The Government has thus requested access to IDA resources within the framework of
the second phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP II) for the Africa Region
to be presented to the Board of Directors in January, 2002. Senegal is eligible for MAP
funding and has satisfied the four MAP eligibility criteria as follows:
a)  Senegal already has a coherent national strategy and has developed a
comprehensive medium-term, multi-sector plan in a participatory manner with all
concerned stakeholders;
b) It has created a National HIV/AIDS Council chaired by the Prime Minister with
broad representation from all sectors and civil society, including people living with
HIV/AIDS, to coordinate the implementation of the national plan;
c) The Government has agreed to use exceptional implementation arrangements to
accelerate project execution by outsourcing implementation aspects such as



5
behavioral surveys, operational research, financial and program management,
monitoring and evaluation; and
d) The Government has agreed to use and fund multiple implementation agencies
as reflected in its plans to channel funds directly to both public and private
implementing agencies, civil society organizations, NGOs, associations of
PLWHA, and to communities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1. An analysis of Senegal's HIV/AIDS program was carried out recently as part of the
preparation process of the new strategic plan. The analysis was conducted in close
association with all partners in the program including Government, bilateral and
multilateral agencies, civil society and the private sector. Its main conclusion is that while
Senegal has achieved remarkable progress to date in the fight against the disease with very
limited resources, it needs a substantial injection of funds to consolidate and widen its
program, and ensure its sustainability. The analysis identified three major areas where
improvements are needed. While Government has already taken steps to put these
improvements on a sustainable footing with the help of international donors, there are still
gaps, and there is the need to finance future program directions, particularly community
approaches to care and prevention, capacity building for civil society and taking ART
beyond the pilot phase. The three areas for priority improvements are:
(i) Weak institutional capacity and limited partnership with civil society. The
intensification of the prevention effort and the introduction of patient and family support
services will require significant strengthening and coordination of the concerned
institutions, services and systems, notably:
*  systems and procedures for channeling funds more efficiently to the grassroots;
*  developing capacity at the regional and sub-regional level through accelerated
training of technicians in the areas of VCT (especially for pregnant women), ART,
treatment of Ols and STDs, procedures to ensure safe blood supplies and the safe
handling of medical waste;
*  partnerships within the civil society to strengthen and develop local capacity to
deliver prevention and care at a decentralized level;
*  monitoring and evaluation, which becomes more complex as a result of greater
grassroots involvement;
*  research and dissemination activities: consolidation of the existing, successful
collaborative research arrangements and enhancement of Senegal's role in
disseminating best practices to other countries in the Region;
*  procurement of drugs, testing kits and related services to ensure that regional and
district services are supplied efficiently and on time.
3.2. Sector Response. To address the issue of timely funding of grassroots activities,
Senegal has decided to contract out the processing of grant requests and related
disbursements on a competitive basis to a private sector Financial Management Agent. It
will also ensure efficient partnerships with civil society in order to transfer and build local
training and delivery capacity at the grassroots level. Additionally, Senegal will reinforce
its M&E system; preparations are well advanced for deploying a second generation



6
surveillance system country-wide, which incorporates attitudinal and behavioral surveys.
The system of notification of HIV/AIDS and STDs will also be reinforced to ensure full
reporting and follow-up.
(ii) The need to intensify prevention at the grassroots level. Prevention, which has been
the main weapon of Senegal's fight against AIDS, has proven to be effective, as evidenced
by the current prevalence rate. There is now broad agreement on prevention as a national
priority and a high level of public knowledge about HIV/AIDS. However, much work is
still to be done, particularly with regard to:
* Youth, aged 15 to 19, whose numbers will increase dramatically through 2010,
rising to 15% of the overall population. Educating them about disease transmission
and protection, and raising the average age of the first sexual encounter are the
highest priorities in terms of containment. To be effective, this group must be
reached in the last years of primary school, before sexual activity begins. Specific
activities must also be developed for those who have dropped out of the education
system;
* Women, who are particularly vulnerable because of the health risks related to
genital mutilation (still a widespread practice), their generally low health status and
their low rate of literacy;
*  Other vulnerable groups such as sex workers, homosexuals, transport workers
and men and women in uniform (the latter are an important and a hitherto neglected
target group, given Senegal's very active role in ECOMOG peacekeeping and in
providing training infrastructure for other member countries);
*  Sustainability of prevention activities over the long term. The best prospect for
this is sharing the burden of prevention among a greater number of actors in society
and reinforcing grassroots capacity and responsibility.
3.3. Sector response. Senegal now seeks to carry prevention to a new level of intensity
by implementing a multisectoral prevention program involving civil society, Government
and the private sector based on Senegal's philosophy of "Faire Faire", e.g. active
involvement of beneficiaries in the resolution of their own problems. The main thrust of
the program is a grassroots effort in which even the smallest social units of civil society -
local associations, villages, neighborhoods - assume responsibility for the fight against
HIVIAIDS, assisted by an extensive network of action groups which have arisen since
1986. These include: NGOs (two federations of NGOs have been created to harmonize
and improve prevention efforts), women's groups (there are over 300 in Senegal), youth
associations and municipalities associations. In Government, the Ministry of Health and
Prevention (MOBP), and all line ministries have a role to play in prevention. The MOHP
plays a major role in prevention and treatment, notably through testing (particularly of
pregnant women and treatment to prevent mother to child transmission), the diagnosis and
treatment of STIs, improving safe injection practices and the provision of safe blood
supplies, clinical care and epidemiological surveillance. It also has a major responsibility
with regard to Information Education and Communication (IEC), ensuring that key
messages are of high quality and providing information to users of health service facilities.
Finally, MOHP plays a key role in backstopping the other technical ministries which are
expected to play their part in prevention, not only with regard to their own staff but



7
through outreach programs and projects which reach out to specific segments of the
population.
Education provides a good example of a sector prevention program. With the support of
the teacher's unions, prevention is already integrated into personnel management and the
curricula of primary and secondary education incorporate modules on prevention. Further
reinforcement of these programs offers one of the best ways of reaching the majority of
youth before their first sexual experience (Senegal currently  has a gross primary
enrollment of 70% and targets 100% by school year 2009-2010). Education also reaches
out to the informal sector, notably through the women and girls' literacy program. This
program operates in all ten regions and has 200,000 participants. Its activities incorporate
HIV/AIDS materials which are available in the eight national languages - a powerful tool
for IEC. In other sectors, development projects can be a vector for reaching such diverse
groups as rural and urban communities, farmers and transport workers. Finally, the private
sector, working at the enterprise level or through trade associations, can obtain advice and
matching grants to implement prevention measures, building on Senegal's experience with
the provision of reproductive health services at work sites. Tourism is a particularly
important private sector target for prevention since it holds out good prospects for
investment and foreign exchange earnings. At the same time, it is often the interface
between high risk groups and overseas visitors. Consequently, a "prevention conscious"
tourism industry can only strengthen those prospects by inspiring international confidence.
(iii) Inadequacy of treatment, care and support. While prevention has made
significant progress, the burden of care and support for PLWHA and their families has
largely fallen on the extended family, usually poor, eroding their already limited means
and preventing them from obtaining the education and employment opportunities needed
to escape poverty. The epidemiological monitoring system in Senegal shows a stable HIV
population of approximately 80,000 HIV infected persons, most of whom are unaware of
their condition. Data available for 2001 indicate that only 550 adults and 10 children are
under Anti-Retroviral Therapy. While access to treatment has to be seen in the context of
low prevalence, and the continuance of low rates (and therefore on the strengthening and
reinforcement of prevention), access to ART must be gradually increased to mitigate to
some extent, the socio-economic impact of the disease.
3.4. Sector response. An important element in Senegal's poverty reduction program is the
alleviation of the financial burdens of over-extended families by providing care for those
who are sick, counseling, support services and eventually economic opportunities, albeit
initially in the form of limited pilot projects. In terms of care, ART will be provided to
patients likely to benefit from the treatment offered by the public health system, based on
an eligibility criteria and income level (see Annex 2 of Senegal PAD). In 2000, Senegal
successfully introduced anti-retroviral drug therapies, on a pilot basis, in the public health
system, and has negotiated favorable prices with five ART drug manufacturers with
possible further reductions. Based on the positive results of the pilot phase, the medical
authorities are taking up the challenge to strengthen the gains achieved so far and gradually
expand access to ART over the next decade to selected clinical sites in all regions. Given
the relatively low number of PLWHA (estimated in 2001 at 80,000 of the adult
population), the financial burden, while initially high, may be less over the long term than
the costs imposed by opportunistic infections which result in frequent and extended



8
hospitalization together with expensive medication. Other elements of the response are the
treatment of 01, counseling and support services to PLWHA and their Families at the
community level by the combined efforts of the health services and grassroots NGOs.
Finally, special provision will be made for orphans. (The cumulative number of orphans is
still manageable, around 20,000.) Orphans will be carefully followed by the social
services, financial aid and home care will be granted to enable them to continue their
schooling and access health care. Infected orphans will be guaranteed treatment since they
impose only marginal additional costs for ART provision.
3.5. Strategic Choices. Senegal might have chosen to "rest on its laurels", confident that
its current health-focused program and prevention campaign have sufficient momentum.
However, recognizing the risk that the country might reach an exponential growth of
HIV/AIDS in the event of an economic downturn coupled with rapid population growth, it
has decided on an intensification of prevention activities, including the promotion of
voluntary testing and counseling, an expansion of Anti-Retroviral Treatment, and
community-based care and support programs to PLWHA. Hence, Government is taking
steps to move toward a multisectoral approach while maintaining and reinforcing the
leadership role played by MOHP. This approach is based on a stronger partnership with
the civil society and communities, which will be called on to participate in key actions in
IEC, the promotion of VCT, the prevention of mother to child transmission, access to
condoms, and home care and support to PLWHIA and their families. Communities as well
as NGOs, Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and special interest associations will
be more readily able to tap financial resources and technical support in order to ensure a
timely and flexible response to these initiatives.
3.6. The Government also intends to promote and encourage the participation of private
enterprises and their federated organizations in implementing the national strategy,
including initiating a communication strategy aimed at sensitizing private sector leaders to
the benefit of providing prevention and treatment services to their employees and their
families. It will also test financial and administrative mechanisms for channeling resources
efficiently to beneficiaries, notably by contracting out financial management of all
initiatives by both public and private entities to a competitively selected private sector
agency. The main thrust of the proposed program is to channel approximately 70% of IDA
resources to the community level to finance activities aimed at:
* the reduction and containment of HIV infection and transmission among women,
newborns, adolescents and high risk groups;
*  improving access to prophylaxis and treatment of STIs, opportunistic infections and
Anti-Retroviral Therapy for all people living with H1V/AIDS eligible for treatment
according to national standards;
* the provision of care, counseling and support to PLWHA, their families and orphans;
*  expanding and strengthening public sector health facilities for testing, treatment, safe
blood supplies and safe injection practices;
*  strengthening the institutions responsible for M&E and consolidating existing
collaborative research arrangements with regional and international institutions
(Senegal is a key reference for the Region in terrns of best practice and a "living
laboratory" for testing new approaches).



9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components: (See Annex 2 of Senegal PAD for a detailed description and
Annex 3 of Senegal PAD for a detailed cost breakdown.)
1.1. The project will support implementation of Senegal's strategic plan through a wide
variety of public sector agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and by
community-based organizations. It will be executed over a five-year period extending
from 2002 to 2006 to coincide with the national strategic plan and will complement other
donor activities.  The project aims to develop additional planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation capacity of public and private entities, and expand existing
prevention, treatment and mitigation programs.  It will be implemented in close
coordination with other bilateral and multilateral organizations. The project will be
implemented through four major components as follows:
Part A. Strengthening the capacity of implementing agencies and coordination
structures (US$ 1.92 million)
1.2. This component is designed to reinforce the resource management, implementation
and monitoring and evaluation capacity of government agencies, civil society and the
private sector, and to strengthen the capacity of local organizations and rural communities
in the design and implementation of demand-driven HIV/AIDS activities. The National
HIV/AIDS Council, its Secretariat and its decentralized structures at the regional and
district levels will also be provided technical, financial and material support to coordinate,
monitor and evaluate implementation of the national strategic plan. More specifically,
capacity-building support will consist of two sub-components:
1.3. Support to HIV/AIDS Units. This sub-component will cover the provision of
technical support services and training to HIV/AIDS units of line ministries, NGO and
CBO personnel, with an emphasis on project design, participatory planning, and
monitoring of community-based activities. It will also train laboratory technicians,
medical and paramedical staff and social workers to strengthen VCT, the prevention of
mother to child transmission, the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections (01)
and tuberculosis, and the provision of ART.
1.4. Support to Monitoring and Evaluation. This sub-component will consist of the
provision of technical support services, equipment and materials to implement a
comprehensive Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) plan. The National Executive Secretariat
(NES) will coordinate and ensure implementation of the following M&E components,
outsourcing  them  to  Government   and  private  agencies:  (i)  surveillance;
(ii) epidemiological research; (iii) financial monitoring; and (iv) project monitoring.
Surveillance comprises both biological and behavioral surveillance. Operations research
will examine what is working and disseminate important lessons. The World Bank will
support operations research, to ensure maximum cross project learning and dissemination.
Financial and project monitoring will focus on NES's contracting and coordinating
capacity and the relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public sector and civil society
services. Structured reporting and assessment forms and procedures will be utilized to
ensure sound project monitoring. Financial and project monitoring will generate verified



10
primary data to inform internal and external supervision. With regard to such financial and
program management monitoring, Senegal has agreed to outsource the project's financial
management to a single agency which will also be responsible for financial and program
management monitoring and evaluation. Terms of reference were prepared and agreed
upon during project preparation.
Part B.  Support to civil society and community-based initiatives in the area of
prevention, care, social support and mitigation (US$ 12.5 million).
1.5. Using a grant mechanism, this component is designed to intensify prevention, care
and social support to meet the needs of specific target groups, PLWHA and their families.
It will ensure the continuity and expansion of successful HIV/AIDS mitigation activities
adapted to local conditions and managed by grassroots organizations and communities.
This component will also promote and encourage HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector
enterprises aimed at developing and implementing prevention, care and support strategies
designed for their employees and their families. This will be done in close coordination
and complementarily with the recently launched ILO-financed project with the Ministry of
Labor.
1.6. A private Financial Management Agent (FMA) will be contracted to provide overall
financial management for the project, including the management of grants for civil society
activities. Funds will be channeled directly through grants to associations, religious
organizations and communities, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based
organizations to cover a wide range of activities including: (i) prevention and sensitization
activities targeted at communities as well as specific groups at high risk and aimed at
building awareness, reducing the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS and the adoption of
safer sex behavior; (ii) provision of home and community-based care for AIDS patients;
and (iii) social support to PLWHA, orphaned children and households affected by
HIV/AIDS, through income generation activities and support to local caregivers. Grant
recipient responsibilities will be specified in a contractual agreement signed before work
begins. Eligibility criteria, norms and standards for implementation of sub-projects under
this grant mechanism are described in more detail in Annex 2 of Senegal PAD and will be
finalized in a specific module of the project operational manual.
1.7. With regard to activities aimed at helping orphaned children, the project will finance
investments to improve their nutrition, their access to education and health care, as well as
their integration into host Families and communities. Sub-projects proposed by civil
society organizations and financed under the IDA Credit will complement and reinforce
ongoing or new initiatives such as the Hope For African Children Initiative launched by
Care, Plan International, Save the Children, The Society for Women Against AIDS in
Africa (SWAA) and the World Conference on Religion and Peace. This Initiative has
received a US$ 10.0 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and has
been endorsed by UNICEF, the World Bank and USAID. The project will ensure
complementarities with the FHIIUSAID and other efforts by partners to support civil
society in the fight against HIV/AIDS.



11
Part C. Support to Governmental Agencies Multi-Sector program (US$ 10.69 million).
1.8. The purpose of this component is to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS
activities implemented by government entities. Several ministries are in the process of
developing detailed work plans and budgets and will be eligible for support under the
project as of the first project year. These are the ministries in charge of health, women,
youth, the interior, education, and technical and vocational training, literacy and national
languages. Additional ministries and state enterprises will also have access to IDA funds
once they develop their action plans.
1.9. Activities under this component cover the full spectrum of prevention, treatment, care
and support and include:
(i)  IEC - the design, implementation and evaluation of information, education and
communication (IEC) programs aimed at specific audiences such as adolescents
(both genders) in and out of school, women, youth, and men in uniform; and high
risk groups such as commercial sex worker (CSW) and men having sex with men
(MSM);
(ii)  Social Marketing - promotion and distribution of condoms;
(iii) MTCT - Mitigation of HIV/AIDS mother to child transmission
(iv) VCT - promotion of and access to voluntary HIV counseling and testing (VCT);
(v)  Blood banks - screening of donors and quality control for transfused blood
products; and
(vi) Diagnosis, treatment and care of HIV patients, including clinical management of
sexually transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections, TB, and pilot anti-retroviral
infections.
1.10. IEC. The IEC program which will be supported under this component aims at
maintaining awareness of HIV/AIDS risks and protection measures. It will promote
behavior change for safe sex practices and risk reduction, and advocate among public and
private leaders with respect to human rights protection, abolition of discriminatory
practices and learning to live with PLWHA. Use of the mass media will be an important
channel of communication. A communication strategy will be put in place to ensure
effective communication to all sectors of the public and civil society.
1.11. Social Marketing. This component will support the use of social marketing for
condom promotion and distribution. Peer groups, vending machines and other social
marketing strategies will also be used to make condoms accessible to all segments of the
adolescent and adult population. Each ministry can choose its strategy to make condoms
available and accessible to its staff and clients, and visible access to condoms in public
places will be encouraged.
1.12. Mitigation of HP//AIDS Mother to Child Transmission. The project will support
the decentralization of the MOHP pilot Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
(PMCT) program to at least one clinical site in each of the ten regions of the country
during the period 2002-2006. The objective is to achieve a level of 80% awareness of
mother to child transmission among women aged 15 to 49, and to reduce the transmission



12
rate from 30% to 15%. Ninety percent of children born to HIV-infected mothers will be
provided with care and treatment at the end of the project.
1.13.  Specific activities will consist of: a) the gradual establishment, training and
equipping of multidisciplinary teams in each of the ten regions of the country under the
supervision of a national team composed of leading gynecologists, pediatricians, biologists
and social workers; b) implementation of a program of pre-test and post-test counseling
and the voluntary testing of a target total of 58,000 pregnant women in pre-natal
consultations during the period 2002-2006; c) expanding access to short regimen treatment
using Zidovudine or Nevirapine drugs; d) expanding access to Anti-Retroviral Treatment
therapy in accordance with national standards; e) the development and implementation of
specific psycho-social support and LEC activities targeting HIV-infected pregnant women
covering topics such as nutrition, breast feeding practices and the use of milk substitutes;
and f) the establishment of a supervision and monitoring system to ensure effective control
and quality of implementation of PMCT protocols and guidelines, and efficient follow-up
and monitoring of patients.
1.14. Diagnosis, Treatment and Care of HIV/AIDS Patients. This will be based on the
expansion of ISAARV (Initiative Senegalaise d'Acces aux Antiretroviraux). Launched in
2000 and currently limited to the city of Dakar, ISAARV will be progressively
decentralized to the main cities of the country (Saint Louis, Kaolack, Ziginchor and
Tambacounda). For this purpose, the project will strengthen voluntary counseling and
confidential testing and laboratory capacity to help scale up the diagnosis, treatment and
care for HIV/AIDS patients. This is part of the MOHP's objective to reduce HIV
transmission, reduce worker disability and improve the quality of life for HIV/AIDS
patients. This component will also support activities aimed at improving the diagnosis and
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections, and tuberculosis. It
will contribute, as needed, to the strengthening of drug management, patient management
(eligibility, clinical and biological follow-up) and psycho-social and economic support to
PLWHA. Bio-medical equipment will be purchased to monitor the immunology and
virology parameters of HIV infection. Financing will be made available to cover the costs
of minor renovations in selected laboratory facilities, the procurement of reagents and
drugs for the treatment of STIs, OIs, TB and other HIV-related illnesses. In May 2000 the
Government joined the Accelerated Access Initiative launched by the pharmaceutical
producers of anti-retroviral drugs and indicated its intention to continue its ARV drug
procurement plan under an arrangement with those companies which provided price
reductions (up to 95%). It is worth mentioning that two producers have agreed to donate
Nevirapine and Flucanazole, two of the drugs used in the ART regimen in Senegal. Funds
under the IDA Credit will also be made available, as necessary, to supplement Government
financing of ARV drug procurement.
Part D. Support to project management and administration (US$ 2.82 million).
1.15. This component will provide support to facilitate the programming, coordination,
and monitoring of project operations, including support to the National AIDS Council
(Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA - CNLS) and NES, to ensure complementarity
and efficient coordination of activities by all concerned parties, and to consolidate activity
plans, budgets and progress reports. This component will support the deployment of



13
skilled and experienced manpower to staff essential coordinating structures, and will fund
services of a Financial Management Agent, technical and financial audits, logistic support
to facilitate project supervision and reporting, and the organization of CNLS/NES regular
meetings and annual project reviews.
Cost Summary Table
Indicative  % of      Bank-       % of
Component            Sector     Costs     Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)     financing
A. Strengthening capacity of                1.92     5.9        1.92         100
implementing agencies and
coordinating structures
B. Support to civil society and            13.88    43.1       12.50         90
community-based organizations
initiatives
C. Support to Government                   11.40     35.4       10.69       93.7
Agencies Multi-Sector Programs
D. Support to Project                       2.93      9.1       2.82        96.2
Management and Administration
E. Unallocated                              2.08      6.5       2.08         100
Total Project Costs                        32.21   100.0       30.00        93.1
Total Financing Required                   32.21    100.0      30.00        93.1
- Costs do not include taxes
- Costs in this table and subsequent tables do not include parallel financing from other
donor agencies.
- Costs only include IDA, Government and community financing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1. The project supports the implementation of Senegal's comprehensive National
Strategic Plan against HI-V/AIDS (PNLS) which aims to achieve a major shift towards a
multisectoral and decentralized program that treats HIV/AIDS as a development priority.
The Government's creation of a multisectoral National AIDS Council [Conseil National de
Lutte Contre le SIDA (CNLS)] under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister is a clear
recognition that the HlV/AIDS epidemic is a fundamental national priority that has to be
addressed as a multisectoral issue. The project also reflects the Government's new policy
direction towards a broader decentralized community-driven approach involving
community-based organizations, non-governmental organizations and the private sector,
with about 85% of project resources being targeted towards regional, district and commune
levels. In order to implement this approach, the project will support key institutional
reforms that will facilitate the implementation of a multisectoral, beneficiary-driven
WHV/AIDS program as well as the establishment and operation of CNLS, NES, the
Regional and Departmental Committees, the HIV/AIDS units within the line ministries,
and the outsourcing of financial management and M&E to private sector firms and
research organizations.



14
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1. Benefits: By scaling up ongoing efforts in the fight against HIV/AIiDS, involving all
sectors and players at all levels of society, the project is expected to have a major impact in
reducing the further spread of HIV/AIDS, improving care of PLWHA and mitigating the
social impact of the epidemic.
3.2. The project will provide the following benefits to Senegal:
a) Reduce the number of new HIV/AIDS cases, by reducing the rate of transmission of
fIHV through: (i) changing HIV-related behaviors, particularly in target groups; (ii)
improving accessibility to condoms; (iii) reducing the rate of sexually transmitted diseases;
(iv) improving blood safety and safe injection practices; and (v) reducing the number of
HIfV infections transmitted from mother to child and expanding voluntary counseling and
testing services; and
b) Extended productive life of people living with, or affected by, AIDS by: (i) improving
the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections, particularly TB; (ii) providing
ARV drug treatment for PLWHA; (iii) improving the care for AIDS orphans; and (iv)
provision of psychological and social support for PLWHA and their families.
3.4. Target population: The project would directly benefit: (i) high-risk groups; (ii)
PLWHA; and (iii) the entire population of Senegal.
4. 1. Target groups include: (i) youth (in and out of school); (ii) women; (iii) commercial
sex workers; (iv) population with signs and symptoms of STIs; (v) workers; (vi) armed
forces;  (vii) migrants; (viii) health workers; (ix) MSM; and (x) other groups.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
(i) Project coordination. Overall coordinating responsibility for the PNLS will be
undertaken by the National HIV/AIDS Council (CNLS) established by presidential decree.
The CNLS members include representatives from all government ministries, the private
sector, an observer designated by the group of international donors and representatives of
the civil society including youth, women, religious groups, PLWHA, NGOs, regional and
local communities as well as recognized experts in HIV/AIIDS that the CNLS may deem
necessary to call upon for advice (non-voting). The Prime Minister will assume the
chairmanship of the CNLS and chair its meetings. The Minister of Health will assume its
vice-chairmanship. The number of CNLS members will be limited to a maximum of 30
persons. It will meet once every six months or, exceptionally, at the request of its
chairperson and/or one third of its members. The CNLS will be responsible for:
(a) advocacy, strategic direction and policy coordination to ensure conformity with
the PNLS;
(b) mobilization of financial, human and physical resources necessary to carry out
the PNLS;



15
(c) oversight of the plans for implementation of the PNLS throughout the country;
(d) ensuring the legal and ethical aspects of the fight against HIV/AIDS.
41.2. The CNLS will execute its mandate through the National Executive Secretariat (NES)
which will have responsibility for overall management of the PNLS. The NES will have a
perrnanent core of executive staff including an Executive Secretary, an Administrative and
Financial Officer, and three Program Coordinators. The NES Executive Secretary will be
the Project Director and will report to the Minister of Health and Prevention, as vice-
chairperson of CNLS.
The NES will be responsible for:
(a) Recording decisions taken during meetings of the CNLS and ensuring their
execution;
(b)  Overseeing the contracts and conventions signed between the Financial
Management Agent and the implementing agencies, and ensuring their overall
execution and quality assurance;
(c) Representing the CNLS in meetings with various levels of government and
other partners;
(dl Ensuring the provision of technical assistance and quality assurance to partners
involved in the national responses;
(e) Ensuring monitoring and evaluation of sector and local plans;
(f) Presenting the annual financial statements and program reports to the CNLS;
kg) Organizing occasional meetings between all the partners in the program;
(h) Coordinating with the Financial Management Agent (FMA) in addition to
chairing the national selection committee for civil society projects that are above a
specified ceiling or have national coverage;
(Ii) Ensuring overall monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the program.
4 i. [te NES will coordinate with other I)A-funded projects and with HIV/AIDS related
,nnaoects financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The NES will meet regularly
v rLh thL IUNAIDS Theme Group and participate in meetings of HIV/AIDS donors led by
N' N?E)P
iii Project Implementation. The project will finance a series of HIV/AIDS action plans
presented by line ministries, as well as projects proposed by a large number of civil society
orearnizations, including NGOs, faith based-organizations (FBOs), women's groups,
,tssociations, unions, private enterprises and community-based organizations (CBOs).
4.4. Line ministries andparastatals. These will receive approximately 40% of project
,unds, These funds will be complemented by contributions from line ministries or
p.aastatal budgets, including provision for a Focal Point or HIV/AIDS unit that will be
r esponsible for policy coordination, monitoring and reporting on the sector response to
H1V-RAIDS. Line ministries will implement their respective plans through their existing
central. regional and departmental units. They will provide administrative and technical
support to their implementation units, including relevant guidelines, training and
monitoring and evaluation. They will also ensure that appropriate financial, human and
)hysicWa resources are channeled to regional and departmental authorities to carry out a
uccentralized response to HIVAIDS. They will ensure active involvement and



16
representation of the public sector in the regional and departmental HIV/AIDS committees.
A formal contract, including a work program and budget with agreed input and output
indicators, will guide the relationship between line ministries, the NES and the FMA. The
NES will be responsible for providing technical assistance and quality control to line
ministries. (The breakdown of project funds is provided in Annex 3 of Senegal PAD.)
4.5. All line ministries will reinforce existing coordinating units at the central level and
ensure participation of their staff at regional and departmental levels in AIDS control
comrnmittees (CRLS, CDLS). There is also the need to set up a communication plan for
prevention campaigns in the respective sectors; NES will coordinate a comprehensive
communication plan to be contracted out to specialized social marketing agencies. (Details
concerning the various participating line ministry plans are contained in Annex 2 of
Senegal PAD.)
4.6. Civil Society. Civil society will directly receive approximately 40% of project funds
through sub-projects proposed and implemented by a variety of organizations. Civil
society organizations will include NGOs, CBOs, private sector enterprises, associations,
women's groups, labor unions and other legally constituted civil society organizations who
wish to carry out activities in the fight against HIV/AIDS among their target beneficiaries
and communities.  With respect to the NGOs, a roster of over 200 civil society
organizations working in HIV/AIDS has been established in Senegal, and reflects different
categories of NGOs and CBOs, classified according to their experience, geographic
coverage, target beneficiaries and ability to carry out HIV/AIDS projects. Each civil
society organization will submit an action plan and budget for financing projects to the
FMA at the national or regional level according to the level of financing proposed and the
geographic coverage of the project. The FMA will organize regular meetings of the
selection committees, to be presided over by the NES or regional HIV/AIDS Committees
according to the proposed project's scope and scale. The selection committee will receive
a report from the FMA and approve or reject the proposals according to the criteria set out
in the operational manual. The NES and its regional equivalent will also ensure that
proposals fall within the scope of the NSP and ensure the technical quality of the
proposals.
4.7. The NES will work with the regional and departmental HIV/AIDS committees to
analyze the technical assistance requirements of civil society organizations to improve
their capacity to undertake effective projects in the fight against HIV/AIDS. It will
develop a Capacity-Building Plan that must be completed within the first six months of the
project and implemented within the first year of the project. (See Annex 2 of Senegal PAD
for further details.)
4.8. The project will be implemented in an incremental manner starting with those line
ministries, parastatals and civil society organizations that already have HIV/AlDS work
plans and projects. Coverage will be extended to other sectors and organizations of civil
society as implementation capacity is strengthened and work plans and projects are
prepared. Line ministries and their regional and district structures will prepare work plans
and budgets for each fiscal year on an annual basis.



17
4.9. By effectiveness, the Borrower will have adopted a project implementation plan
(PIP), including a detailed work plan for the first year of the project and a project
operational manual (POM), including all implementation arrangements, administrative,
financial and accounting procedures. The manual will set out the functional relationships
between the different organs in the institutional framework, the criteria and guidelines for
allocation of funds, including under the grant mechanism, as well as accounting norms and
reporting requirements for all responsible implementing agencies.
4.10. External technical and financial audits of the project will be carried out regularly by
the Government in order to ensure financial and technical compliance and quality control.
4.11. Financing for the project will be mobilized through public sector budget
contributions (investment and recurrent expenditure), current resources committed by
bilateral agencies and multilateral organizations and international NGOs, and private sector
donations. IDA resources through the MAP II will serve to complete the HIIV/AIDS
program financing plan. In order to ensure a multisectoral and local response in the fight
against HIV/AIDS, resources from IDA will be allocated approximately in the following
manner:
* 45% of the Project's resources will be directed towards the public sector and
45% to the civil society and the private sector;
* 85% of Project resources will be targeted towards the community and regional
levels, and 15% to the national level;
* 10% of the total credit will go towards project management, including the fee
of the Financial Management Agent, independent financial and technical
auditors, operating costs of the NES and administrative support to the Regional
and Departmental Committees.
(iii) Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation. It is proposed that surveillance and
epidemiological research will be managed by the HIV/AIDS unit of the MPOH, assisted
by the Epidemiology Group, the Bacterial-Virological Laboratory and research institutions.
Financial and program management monitoring will be combined and delegated to one
agency, for effective financial program cross-verification.  Structured reporting and
assessment forms and procedures will be developed to ensure sound program monitoring.
Financial and program monitoring will generate verified primary data to inform internal
and external supervision.
4.12. Line ministries and other implementing agencies will supervise their own activities
at all levels within their respective sector mandates. They will provide the NES and FMA
with information on a number of agreed variables, on a quarterly basis. Regional and
departmental HIV/AIDS committees representing each sector and incorporating
community-based and civil society organizations will supervise project activities at
departmental and community levels. Analyses will be conducted by the FMA to assess the
financial and administrative performance of community based organizations and other civil
society entities as needed.
4.13. The NES core team will supervise overall project implementation and will assess
effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at central, regional and departmental levels,



18
working in close collaboration with the FMA under its defined terms of reference for
program management monitoring. It will consolidate progress reports, organize regular
meetings of NES members to discuss progress for each type of implementing agency. It
will organize the annual project reviews, the mid-term review and the project completion
review to assess the performance of the project, its components and its contribution to the
national strategic goal of reducing the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS. The project's
annual stakeholder meetings will form the basis for the following year's annual work
program and budget. The project operational manual provides a detailed description of the
project monitoring and evaluation. (See Annex 4 of Senegal PAD for a summary).
(iv) Procurement procedures. Line ministries will procure works, goods and services
related to the respective activities, in accordance with the Bank's Gu/delines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999), in particular section 3.15, Community
Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations or individuals
financed by IDA will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999).
4.15. The Government will contract with the Pharmacie Nationale dApprovisionnement
(PNA), a public autonomous drug procurement agency, to carry out procurement of large
items and packages such as diagnostic kits, reagents, pharmaceutical products and drugs
for the diagnosis and clinical management of HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted infections
and other opportunistic infections including tuberculosis. United Nations procurement
agents may also be contracted for the procurement of specific items such as condoms.
4.16. Communities will use the Bank's Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
Procedures for Community-based Investments to procure goods and services needed to
implement their respective HIV/AIDS initiatives. Since each sub-project costs would be
modest, local shopping will be a standard procurement method.
4.17. To facilitate speedy import of items valued at less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, and
which are required urgently for diagnosis, treatment or institutional strengthening,
contracts may be prepared according to international shopping and national shopping
procedures, or through procurement from the United Nations.
4.18. Project procurement and disbursement arrangements are detailed in Annex 8 of
Senegal PAD and will be detailed in the Project Operational Manual.
(v) Financial management and disbursement. Financial management of the project and
the monitoring and evaluation of program management will be contracted out to a private
sector Financial Management Agent (FMA) selected on a competitive basis. This is in line
with MAP best practice to ensure the most rapid, flexible and efficient mobilization of
resources to the beneficiaries of the project. As part of its contract with the Government,
the FMA will be required to develop a fully integrated financial and accounting system
using appropriate software as well as a detailed manual of financial procedures and chart of
accounts, including the format, content and periodicity of the various financial statements



19
to be produced. The FMA will also be required to set up an appropriate financial and
accounting system at a regional level. Transfer of funds to line ministries, NGOs, CBOs
and private sector organizations and mechanisms for tranche releases and the scaling up of
successful projects will be made by the FMA in accordance with eligibility standards and
implementation procedures as described in the project operation manual and guidelines.
For each category of applicants there will be clear eligibility criteria, thresholds as well as
requirements for contributions, depending on size, experience and sector.  For all
applicants, no more than 20% of any funding can be used for overhead. The FMA will
analyze applications and submit reports to the monthly selection committees chaired by the
NES or regional equivalents for consideration (depending on the scale and scope of the
application). (See Annex 2 of Senegal PAD for further details.)
4.19. By effectiveness the Borrower will have adopted the project operational manual
(POM), including all administrative, financial and accounting procedures and installed a
financial management system satisfactory to IDA. The objective is to put in place sound
financial management and output monitoring systems and to introduce the World Bank
Financial Management Initiative to administer the credit. However, in its initial phase, the
project will operate under traditional disbursement procedures until its financial
management is deemed satisfactory by IDA to fulfill the requirements of PMR-based
disbursement. Government will open a Special Account at a commercial bank and all
disbursements will be fully documented at the time of submission of withdrawal
applications, except for expenditures made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Choice of instrument
1.1. Taking into account the likely timeframe for containing HIV/AIDS, consideration was
given to employing the "vertical", multiphase APL instrument within Senegal. This has
the advantage of a phased approach signaling Bank commitment and attracting donor
support in Senegal over the medium to long term. Notwithstanding, three factors support
proceeding with a specific investment loan (SIL), namely: a) the low level of HIV/AIDS
prevalence coupled with the country's well-documented successful experience in the
design and implementation of HIV/AIDS programs; b) Senegal's adoption of a five-year
plan 2002-2006 for mitigation of HIV/AIDS which provides a sound policy and
implementation framework as well as reasonable targets for the proposed operation; and c)
other donor plans to support the national strategy (UNICEF, UNDP and UNFPA) country
strategy plans also cover the same five-year period. A further advantage is that the
national plan period overlaps with the Medium Term Expenditure Framework agreed upon
with Senegal, thus ensuring close attention to the efficiency of both budget procedures and
expenditures. This is especially important since the multisectoral character of the project is
posited on adequate budgets for HIV/AIDS at the level of the technical ministries and on
the efficiency of their expenditures.



20
Financing of ART
1.2. At first glance, the high costs of ART initially and over time might appear to militate
against its inclusion in the project. Senegal seeks to emulate several other countries at a
similar prevalence level (Barbados, Chile, Morocco and Vietnam) which have decided to
provide ART to selected patients on both humanitarian and economic grounds. Their
decision - and Senegal's - is based on partnership with the pharmaceutical companies, the
relatively low number of treatable cases, the anticipated savings in terms of lower costs
related to treatment of Ols (including TB), and the reduced negative economic impact on
the families of PLWHA. However, to be effective ART provision must meet generally
recognized preconditions: trained personnel and the necessary clinical facilities and
laboratory infrastructure must be in place as well as effective measures for monitoring drug
resistance, patient counseling and follow-up. The Government's ongoing medium-term
health sector reform and investment program broadly supported by multilateral
organizations and bilateral agencies, will help satisfy these preconditions.  Most
importantly, the Government has established an institutional mechanism (the ISAARV
commission) for the fair selection of patient access to ART in the public sector according
to clear medical and income criteria in accordance with WHO/UNAIDS guidelines for the
introduction of ART in resource limited settings. In addition, Senegal has pioneered
implementation of the Pharmaceutical Companies Access Initiative in Africa and entered
into an agreement with five pharmaceutical companies for the supply of anti-retroviral
drugs at reduced price.
Choice of Senegal as MAP2 Pilot
1.3. Senegal was chosen to accompany MAP2 as the pilot country for two main reasons.
First, Senegal is the most advanced in respect of readiness for ART, as discussed above.
It has conducted a number of clinical trials which have produced results in terms of
continuity and clinical outcomes similar to those achieved in the EU and USA. The project
will now scale up the trials to cover other regions. The second reason for Senegal
accompanying MAP II is to show the Bank's willingness to support countries with a low
HlV/AIDS prevalence in order to maintain this low prevalence or avoid significant
increases.
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
2.1. The National Forum on HIV/AIDS held in December 2000 clearly identified the
successes and failures of the national program in place since 1986, drawing lessons for
project design. Findings from the evaluation of MAP I as well as from other country
experiences were also incorporated into project design. These lessons include:
Political leadership and commitment.
2.1. Political "champions" are key to mobilizing national and donor resources for the fight
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Government of Senegal has been a model of early,
high-level leadership given its firm commitment to the fight against HIV/AHDS. The
Government recognizes the social as well as the economic imperatives to keep a very low
HIV/AIDS prevalence and therefore is committed to supporting a sustained program and is



21
now establishing a national council for HIV/AIDS control (CNLS), chaired by the Prime
Minister.
Need for a multisectoral approach and community participation.
2.3. Experience in many countries demonstrates the fact that the health sector alone is not
capable of winning the war against AIDS on a sustained basis. There is need for a
multisectoral approach involving key ministries in Government at all levels, the private
sector and the non-government/community sector. For the Senegal MAP, a multisectoral
team - including civil society representatives - was involved in project design from the
beginning. At the same time, the role of the Ministry of Health and Prevention is
recognized as pivotal, particularly with respect to treatment of STIs, OIs, provision of
ART, MTCT treatment, VCT, blood transfusion services, procurement, epidemiological
surveillance and general health-related technical training and oversight. All coordination
and   management   structures  of  the  Senegal   project  are  multisectoral.



22
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
Sector Issue               Project             (Bank-fina ced projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
HNP and Reproductive Health  Cr. 2985-SN: Integrated    U                  S
Health Sector
Development Program
(Closed June 30, 2003)
Endemic Diseases            Cr. 2951-SE: Endemic        U                  5
Disease Control Project
(Closed Dec. 31, 2002)
HN-Nutrition               Cr. 2723-SN:                 S                  S
Community Nutrition I
Project
(Closed June 30, 2001)
Social Protection          Cr. 3446-SE: Social          S                  S
Development Fund
Project
(Closed Dec. 31, 2004)
Other development agencies
AfDB                       Social Development,
Health infrastructure
E.U.                       EDF support to
Decentralized Rural
Development
IDB                        Program, support (HIV
NDF                        AIDS Sub-projects:
JICA                       US$1.0 Million)
KFW
The Kingdom of Belgium     Program Support to
The French Cooperation     HIV/AIDS
The Netherlands Cooperation
Taiwan
USAID/FHI/CDC
UNICEF
UNFPA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HlU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



23
Contracting out of Financial Management.
3.1. Lessons from MAPs to date indicate the importance of contracting out financial
management in order to maximize effective and rapid access to funds by the various
stakeholders, particularly those which are community-based. Eligibility criteria must also
be made clear and transparent to all potential implementing agencies. In particular, high
priority must be put on financing "software" rather than "hardware" - funding people
directly involved in HIV/AIDS activities rather than equipment and civil works.
3.2. In the Senegal project, all financial management will be contracted out to a private
sector Financial Management Agent (FMA) and no major civil work program is envisaged.
The FMA will be responsible for disbursements to all civil society applicants, as well as
the public sector in the implementation of their sector plans. The Government has also
agreed that M&E of program management will be contracted out.
Financing and Capacity Building Mechanisms for Civil Society.
3.3. In order to ensure a widespread, sustained and cost-effective response to the disease,
it is imperative that the community take primary responsibility for prevention and care of
orphans and PLWHA. Much has been learned with regard to the mobilizing and financing
of community-based initiatives over the last few decades. Senegal already has a highly
active civil society with over 200 NGOs involved in HIV/AIDS and 300 women's groups.
In the Senegal MAP, at least 40% of project funds will be channeled directly to civil
society.
Need for strengthening capacity of implementing agencies.
3.4. Based on past experience, greater priority needs to be given to enhancing the
capacity of institutions in program management, procurement, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation. Component 1 will provide significant capacity building for
implementing agencies, the NES and regional and community equivalents. At the
technical level, training of health personnel in both the technical and psycho-social
dimensions of HIV/AIDS form a key subcomponent of the project.
Importance of Monitoring and Evaluation.
3.5. Monitoring and evaluation of project activities is important in assessing progress and
the impact of interventions as well as identifying corrective measures in the course of
implementation. The HIV/AIDS surveillance systems need to be strengthened for effective
monitoring and evaluation of H[V/AIDS epidemic trends to identify areas that need to be
tackled for the greatest impact. Senegal has a developed M&E surveillance system that has
provided critical data for identifying high risk groups and tracking PLWHA. The MOHP
is reinforcing its second generation surveillance system by expanding it to all regions
during the Project. The project will contract out project management monitoring and
evaluation and there will be an independent performance review and audit of the NES and
Financial Management Agent. Civil society is involved in M&E through its roles in the



24
CNLS, NES and regional/community equivalents, and will also participate in the annual
supervision missions.
Importance of clarifying roles.
3.6. It will be important to delineate the roles of different agencies. Experience from other
countries has demonstrated that the principal entities can be made ineffective and/or
become overly bureaucratic if roles are not clearly defined, including functions in relation
to other key players. In Senegal, clear terms of reference for the CNLS, the NES and the
regional and community equivalents will be fully developed in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP).
Vulnerability Factors and high risk groups are key to future success.
3.7. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is driven by underlying vulnerability factors among
populations and high risk groups. The combination of poverty, illiteracy and gender
disparities exacerbate exposure to the virus. For this reason the project will look at
targeting these groups with differential information geared to behavior change and will
also pilot some income-generating activities. It will also support efforts to reduce
stigmatization of PLWHA and homosexuality in order to bring these in line with Senegal's
progressive approach to CSW. This project will specifically focus on vulnerable groups,
including youth (in and out of school), women, workers, CSW, MSM, armed forces,
PLWHA, prisoners and others.
Good Donor Coordination.
3.8. This can significantly reduce the Government's transaction costs for management of
externally funded programs. Common arrangements for program reviews, monitoring and
evaluation, planning of financial and technical assistance, support missions, funding of
programs or program components are all areas that will be pursued in close cooperation
with UNAIDS and other cooperating partners. The UNAIDS (WHO) representative has
been part of the project design team and the project will benefit from the strong donor
coordination and complementarily that exist already in Senegal. Other donors may also
elect to utilize the FMA as a vehicle for channeling their funds to Senegal's 1HV/AIDS
program.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
4.1. Senegal was the first country in Africa to mount an HIV/AIIDs prevention campaign.
With high level and broad political support, matched by a significant financial effort, it has
maintained and intensified that campaign regularly over the past ten years.  A
comprehensive medium-term - 2002-2006 strategic framework and action plan have been
developed with effective participation of all line ministries and the civil society. Program
oversight and coordinating structures previously located in the MOHP are now being
moved to the Office of the Prime Minister. In addition, the Government is committed to
putting in a large proportion of the financing itself; it is scaling up the MOHP budget to
reach a 15% share of the recurrent budget and other ministries are expected to provide
matching funds to those which will be made available under the IDA credit.



25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5. 1. The project allows IDA to provide continued support to a successful program,
promotes Senegal as a flagship of good performance to date, and points to future directions
for others in sub-Saharan Africa (with MAP2). However, this requires building on
successes, and ensuring program sustainability and effectiveness. Senegal so far has done
a great deal with limited resources involving high transaction costs. This project under
MAP2 will significantly reduce the costs of raising (and coordinating) financial resources.
IDA support is also important because Senegal needs substantial new funds to solidify and
widen the program, particularly to fill existing gaps and finance future directions to
strengthen weak elements of its program, such as:
* the limited multisectoral approach to date;
* the under-resourced decentralized/community approach to care and prevention;
* weak project management capacity of both the public sector and the civil society;
* the need to scale up a number of successful pilot activities;
* taking ART beyond the pilot phase (including testing the hypothesis ART reduces
overall treatment costs);
* financing research in needed areas;
* combating stigmatization (homosexuality, workplace treatment of PLWHA).
5.2. Bank support will complement other development partners, including pharmaceutical
companies, in a joint effort to support the national program of H1V/AIDS containment and
eventual marginalization. It brings to the table substantial financing required to intensify
HIV prevention, scale up the treatment of AIDS and Ols as well mitigate the socio-
economic impact of the disease. With the Bank's good working knowledge of the other
sectors, it can assist in making the technical ministry programs more effective. Finally, by
promoting emphasis on monitoring and evaluation as well as research and dissemination, it
will assist Senegal in maintaining its all important "success story" - a powerful example
for other countries in the sub-region which are struggling with significantly higher levels
of prevalence as well as those who wish to retain a low prevalence level.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8
of Senegal PAD)
1. Economic (see Annex 4 of Senegal PAD):
1.1. A detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS was carried out for the first phase of the
MAP and applies to this project. It includes an overall assessment of the impact of
HIV/AIDS on economic development and a cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS
interventions. This report highlights the following key findings:
* HIV/AIDS negatively affects an economy by reducing productivity, domestic
savings and overall economic growth;
* HIV/AIDS increases the burden on the health budget and risks crowding out other
key programs such as vaccination, the fight against malaria and other parasitic
diseases;



26
* care and treatment of AIDS patients imposes high costs on families and at the same
time reduces their earning capacity;
* family coping strategies may result in children abandoning school or the family
reducing other health expenditures below an acceptable minimum.
1.2. The economic benefits of Senegal's national program are multifold:
* new infections will be significantly reduced;
* the treatment costs of opportunistic infections will be reduced, possibly
outweighing the cost of ART;
* AIDS patients will have longer and more productive lives due to improved care
overall, including ART;
* the economic prospects of families and orphans will be improved;
* Senegal's profile for attracting tourists (a major contribution to GDP) and foreign
investment will be enhanced or at a minimum, not diminished.
1.3. The cost-benefit analysis suggests that the five-year project lifecycle could avert
infections among 21,292 cases. In dollar terms, this would translate to about US$ 36
million of benefits through averting productivity losses and through averting costs of care.
The net present value NPV for the first five years from the inception of the project is
US$ 4.5 million and the IRR is 26 percent. However, the situation changes a year after
that when NPV is almost US$ 20 million and IRR is 53 percent. The NPV and IRR grow
positive and increase beyond project lifetime.
1.4. The analysis also shows that the HIV/AIDS prevention project can slow down the
growth in the epidemic. However, the extent to which the epidemic can slow down
depends on the effectiveness of the prevention program. Given the above scenarios, the
impact of the project is low in the first five years of the project lifecycle; however, the
impact increases beyond the fifth year. The hypothetical situation demonstrates that the
benefits can be far greater from the HIV/AIDS prevention project, if there is a larger
slowing down in the growth of the epidemic due to the project, which is also dependent on
the intervention programs.  The cost-benefit  analysis therefore supports the
implementation of a HIV/AIDS prevention project.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
2.1. A specific analytical concern of the project is to track the cost-effectiveness of
different interventions, including ART treatment regimens. The annual cost of ART and
the relevant laboratory exams in Senegal are still high. This raises the concern that
expanding the program without careful monitoring of the cost effectiveness of different
regimens, and their impact on equity, might put at risk the financial sustainability and
economic efficiency of the whole program. Senegal's Center for Applied Economic
Research (CREA) at the University of Dakar has the technical capacity to undertake this
work, as well as monitor the longer term economic impact of the program through tracer
studies of the employment and income of PLWA and their families.



27
Fiscal Impact: (see Annex 5)
2.2. The fiscal impact of the project is likely to be small. The amount to be disbursed
annually under the project is estimated at US$ 6.0 million representing less than 0.05% of
the total Government budget in FYOO/O1. Counterpart funds are not expected to be unduly
heavy as civil works and operational costs represent a small proportion of the project costs.
Civil works will be limited to minor renovation of existing laboratory facilities. Major
management activities will be outsourced, thus limiting requirements for recurrent cost
support in the future. The project will cover some of the incremental operating expenses,
estimated to be 10% of total project cost. The actual fiscal impact is further minimized
since almost 40% of the project will be directly channeled to NGOs, private sector
organizations and CBOs which will be required to generate their own counterpart
contributions (ranging from 10% to 40%, in-kind or in cash) of the cost of their proposed
sub-projects. Nevertheless the Government will be expected to assume full responsibility
for the maintenance of many project investments at the closure of the project. To ensure
adequacy and availability of operating and maintenance costs, the Government has agreed
under the ongoing IDA-supported health sector investment program to gradually increase
the proportion of the MOPH's recurrent budget allocated to operation and maintenance to
15% of the annual recurrent budget.
3. Technical: (see Annex 6)
3.1. The technical design of the project has benefited from lessons learned in Senegal's
fourteen-year old campaign, the evaluation of MAPI project implementation, and from
international experience. New dimensions of the program supported by the proposed
project are: early attention to capacity-building in project implementation to ensure timely
start-up of activities; M&E; the provision of ART treatment; enhanced treatment of Ols
with particular attention to TB prevention and treatment; and a local response to family
support for PLWHA.
4. Institutional: (See Annex 7)
Success will depend on the effective collaboration between the NES, line ministries,
NGOs, private sector and other partners at national, regional and district levels. This will
require sound financial management and clear accountability as well as technically sound
outreach strategies. It is believed that the recruitment of a financial management agent and
a clear understanding of the role of policy coordination and monitoring by the CNLS under
the chairmanship of the Prime Minister will facilitate project implementation and timely
resolution of problems which might arise in execution of activities by multiple ministries
and the civil society.
4.1 Executing Agencies
The NES will be responsible for overall project management and coordination of
the implementation of project activities by the public sector and the civil society. It will
coordinate closely with the FMA and will report to the CNLS. Each participating ministry
(through its own HIV/AIDS unit), parastatal, and civil society organization will manage its



28
own HIV/AIDS activities and report regularly on agreed input and output performance
indicators to the FMA and NES.
4.2 Project Management
Project supervision will be regularly conducted by NES which will organize two
semi-annual program reviews involving all parties in the partnership against HIVIAlDS in
Senegal. These reviews will focus on progress made in achieving the PNLS objectives and
constraints faced in its implementation. A consolidated yearly financial and progress
report will be prepared by NES and FMA for the CNLS annual meetings.
4.3 Procurement Issues
A timely and sustained supply of reagents, ART and 01 drugs is a sine quta non for
this component. Some procurement of laboratory equipment and bio-medical supplies is
expected. Any breakdown in the supply of materials or laboratory facilities for testing
which results in a program stoppage, simply cannot be tolerated. This issue was given
special attention at pre-appraisal to assess the volume and adequacy of needed supplies.
The project will provide assistance to the MOHP to help improve drug purchasing
strategies as the international market evolves. No major civil works activities are envisaged
under the project.
4.4 Financial management issues
The Financial Management Assessment for the Senegal HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Project was conducted based on the Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial
Management Sector Board, dated June 30, 2001. The objective of the assessment is to
determine whether the entities responsible for the implementation of the HIV-IAIDS
Prevention and Control Project have acceptable financial management arrangemnents as
required by the Bank policies, including system of accounting, reporting, auditing and
internal controls.
The formal assessment was carried out in the field during the period of Novemlber
19-24, 2001. But it also takes into account outcomes of discussions and reviews carried out
during the preparation and pre-appraisal phases.
The financial management arrangements of the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Project are characterized mainly by the decentralized approach in the implementation of
the project's activities whereby most of the activities will be implemented by the end
beneficiaries (governmental agencies and civil society). The overall financial managemcent
responsibility will be contracted out to a Financial Management Agent.
The review of the proposed financial management arrangements made it possihle 
reach an agreement with the Borrower's representative on the flow of funds, the overall
financial management responsibility for the project, the accounting, reporting, intemal and
external auditing systems to be put in place as well as a time-bound action plan.



29
One Special Account will be opened and managed by the Financial Management
Agent at the central level. Sub-accounts of the Special Account will be opened and
managed at the regional level by the regional representative of the Financial Management
Agent to finance activities implemented at the regional level, namely sub-projects
submitted by local civil society organizations. Regarding government agency action plans,
advance account mechanisms will be used to finance related activities on the understanding
that the large procurement will be handled by the FMA.
Given this framework, the scope of the assessment was basically limited to the
Financial Management Agent, the civil society organizations and governmental agencies.
As the Financial Management Agent is not yet in place, it is not possible, at this stage, to
assess its capacity to meet the project's needs based on the arrangements described above.
The assessment was therefore focused on determining whether the overall financial
management arrangements are appropriate for the needs of the project and whether the
required conditions are met to fully and satisfactorily implement these arrangements by
credit effectiveness at the latest. An agreement was therefore reached on the terms of
reference, the evaluation criteria and the shortlist for the selection of the Financial
Management Agent.
Regarding the civil society organizations and Government agencies, a full-fledged
assessment of their financial management capacity is not possible given the demand-driven
approach of the project, which does not make it possible to have a pre-defined list of
organizations that will be involved in the implementation. The approach taken is rather to
ensure that all selection criteria of civil society organizations include an assessment of their
financial management capacity. Furthermore consideration was given to the monitoring by
the Financial Management Agent of the appropriate use of the project's resources by
recipients. It was decided that this monitoring will be linked to disbursements of funds.
The project's financial management system is not yet in place since it depends on
the Financial Management Agent which is not yet recruited. As a result, the current
situation of the project's financial management system does not meet the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements as specified in OP/BP 10.02.  However, these
requirements are expected to be met once all measures defined in the agreed action plan
are completed.
5. Environmental: Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1. Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment
emerging from this analysis.
5.2. The project is not expected to have major adverse environmental impact. However,
there are risks attached to the handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected materials.
These risks potentially affect: personnel in hospitals, health centers and municipalities who
handle waste, families whose income is derived from the triage of waste and also the
general public to the extent that waste is not disposed of on site or safely contained in
protected areas. A draft medical waste management plan was prepared by the Government



30
and reviewed during appraisal. Institutional arrangements and the cost of its execution will
be financed under the ongoing health sector investment program. The plan will be
finalized before credit effectiveness and will include the proper disposal of hazardous bio-
medical waste, a bio-safety training program for the staff of all hospital, health center and
community-based programs, including traditional midwives and practitioners who may be
involved in testing and treatment. The training program will include specific instruction
on the triage, transport and disposal of waste. In addition the project implementation
manual will include guidelines to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into
account in the selection and design of project activities. With the assistance of the Africa
Safeguard Policy Enhancement Team (ASPEN), TORs have been prepared for such a plan
which will be reviewed by the Bank prior to credit effectiveness. The task team organized
a presentation on medical waste management, attended by members of the Senegalese
project preparation team and a follow-up half-day workshop is envisaged in the near
future.
6. Social:
6.1 Key Social Issues
The project will have a very positive social impact by raising the awareness level of
specific segments of the population who are at high risk of infection (particularly women
and youth), and encouraging safe sex behavior among the population in general.
Furthermore, expected increases in access to VCT, availability of ART treatment and care
and support at the family level should have a positive impact on the social environment by
assisting and empowering people and institutions to deal more effectively with the disease
burden. Socially marginalized groups, such as MSM, commercial sex workers, inmates
and PLWHA and their families whose economic and human rights are subject to violation
will also receive support through the project. In addition, a monitoring process using
quantitative and qualitative research among specific groups is built into the project design
to ensure periodic assessment of social impact and to take corrective actions for social
issues which might arise during implementation.
6.2 Participatory Approach
The preparation process of the PNLS was highly participatory with extended
consultations with various stakeholders at several national and regional fora and
workshops leading to the preparation of a medium-term strategic framework and program
design. In order to obtain consensus on project content and implementation arrangements,
the Borrower's project preparation team included representatives from line ministries, the
civil society and local and regional authorities. Prior to project conception, a series of
workshops and strategic plans were developed by various sectors (e.g., youth, women,
NGO, traditional healers, education) and consolidated into a national strategy at the
National Forum held in December 2000.   In each case, representatives from the
Government and the civil society actively participated. Partners from all sectors will also
participate in the program structures, including the CNLS, the NES and the various
regional and local HIV/AIDS Committees. Approximately fourteen key Ministries will
establish HIV/AIDS units and will obtain matching funds through the project to implement
their HIV/AIDS programs. As a result, the Borrower has succeeded in securing a



31
consensus on project content and implementation arrangements, among its partners and
beneficiaries.
6.3 Consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society organizations
NGOs and CBOs, among other civil society organizations, are currently involved in
project design and are expected to play an active role in project implementation. Their
involvement will consist primarily of assisting communities to facilitate the design,
implementation and monitoring of community-led, community-owned initiatives.
Resources will also be provided to NGOs and CBOs using simple contractual agreements
to enable them to conduct specific sub-projects on a larger scale and to cover their
participation in evaluation and research.
6.4 Institutional arrangements to ensure social development outcomes
The participatory approach used in project preparation will be continued during
project implementation. Two beneficiary assessments will be conducted, once at project
mnid-term and again at the end of project. In addition, the PNLS coordinating structures
(i.e., the CNLS, the NES and the regional and district committees) will include
representatives from government agencies, civil society and different associations of
special interest groups.
6.5 Performance in terms of social development outcome monitoring
Indicators of beneficiaries' satisfaction will be included in project design and
regularly monitored during project implementation. Moreover, technical reviews will be
conducted under contractual arrangements with selected private sector firms to assess
NGO and CBO performance and take corrective action.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP         No
7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        No



32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.1. The project is built upon the established partnership between Govemment and the
civil society, their past and current collaboration in various social sector projects and their
strong ownership of the national multi-sector plan against HIV/AIDS. The project will
expand and intensify existing programs by mainstreaming prevention care and support
activities of several line ministries and the civil society, and by tapping and reinforcing
community resources and community organizations' potential for mobilization. The
govemment policy of decentralization and the project's emphasis on capacity building at
all levels of project implementation would also enhance sustainability.
1.2. A specific analytical concern of the project is to track the cost-effectiveness of
different interventions, including ART treatment regimens, to ensure the financial
sustainability and equity of the whole program. Senegal's Center for Applied Economic
Research (CREA) at the University of Dakar will undertake this work, as well as monitor
the longer term economic impact of the program through tracer studies of the employment
and income of PLWHA and their families.



33
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the Failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column
of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Coordinating capacity of NES is weak      M         Competitive staffing of NES based on
experience and technical competences.
Poor inter-sector and public/private      S         Role and mandate of coordinating and
collaboration at national and regional              implementing agencies are clearly defined in
levels                                             implementation manual; dissemination of
operational guidelines and criteria to all actors;
consistent monitoring and performance
evaluation by NES.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation capacity of government     M         Capacity-building activities including
agencies and NGOs is weak                          technical support and on-the-job site training
are an important component of the project and
will be provided early during project
implementation.
Lack of interest and commitment from      M         Strong motivation by senior government and
local government, communities and                   civil society leadership; effective participation
beneficiaries                                       by civil society and local government in policy
formulation, project design and
implementation, and IEC activities to promote
the project and explain its financing
mechanisms and benefits.
NGOs, CBOs and communities lack of        S         On-the-job technical assistance and training by
capacity to propose and implement sub-              major NGOs/CBOs to assist smaller
projects                                            organizations and communities to ensure
quality of design and efficient implementation;
contracting out to experienced NGOs,
sensitization work and regular monitoring and
supervision of activities at community level in
most parts of the country.
Reluctance of some ministries to commit   M         Key ministries have been involved in project
resources                                           design; location of program in Prime
Minister's office; technical support from
MOHP; matching financial support.
Capacity to effectively administer ART    S         Provision of necessary materials and technical
is weak                                            training incorporated into project.
NES and other institutions become too     S         Commitment to core staff only, with most
bureaucratic and controlling                        functions - financial management, project
management, M&E - contracted out; recurrent
expenditure financed by counterpart.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



34
3. Possible controversial aspects:
The project was designed by a multisectoral team and no controversial aspects are
anticipated.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions.
The Borrower has:
a) established the accounting and financial management system for the project;
b) opened the Project Account;
c) appointed a Financial Management Agent for the Project;
d) adopted the Project Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Plan, both in
form and substance satisfactory to IDA;
e) furnished to the IDA the plan of actions and the procurement plan for the first year of
Project implementation;
f) furnished to the IDA a medical waste management plan, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA; and
g) appointed the staff of the NES, an Executive Secretary, 3 Program Coordinators and a
Financial Controller, all with experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
2. Dated covenants.
The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 2002:
a) establish, restructure or strengthen, as the case may be, NES and the regional and
department level HIV/AIDS Committees;
b) furnish to the Association a monitoring and evaluation action plan for the Project;
c) appoint an in-house Accountant within each Line Ministry or government agency
eligible to receive proceeds of the Credit under the Project.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2002, furnish to the Association a
detailed strategic action plan for its IEC campaigns against HIV/AIDS under the Project.
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2002, appoint and thereafter
maintain throughout Project implementation, a Technical Auditor with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Association and who shall be responsible for preparation
of a technical audit report, satisfactory in form and substance to the Association, to be
furnished annually by the Borrower to the Association.



35
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the
start of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable
2. Preparation of the procurement documents for the first year's activities is well
advanced and requires minimal additional work to be ready for the start of project
implementation.
3. The Project ImplementatidSn Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic-and of
satisfactory quality.
(See paragraph 4 below)
X 4. The items below are referred to in Section G "Main Loan Conditions" (above).
These materials were reviewed during negotiations. They were found to be a good
technical quality, although requiring some additional information on cost and
implementation to be satisfactory to IDA. It was agreed that the following would be
finalized before Credit Effectiveness:
a) The final project operational manual;
b) The final project implementation plan;
c) The final procurement plan; and
c) The final plan of action for bio-medical waste management.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
X The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
_   _   _r_-_                _   _   _  _   _   __           _
Anwar Bach-Ivaouab          Alexandre V(Abrantes          John McIntire
Team Leader                Sector Manager             Country Director



36
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Key Performance       Dati Collection
Hierarchy of Objectives_      Indicators            Strategy         Critical Assumpftons
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    _ector country     (from Goal to Bank
r .s.reorts        Msio)
Reduce poverty           Human development      UNDP annual report  Adoption of the National
indicators, including the  and household  Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS
poverty profile        surveys            and its integration in the
poverty reduction program
Reduce and contain       Prevalence rate remains  Epidemiological  Adequate and sustained
HIV/AIDs                 below 3% by 2006       Bulletin           financing of the Plan
Strengthen the involvement  At least 90% of the  Ministerial budget  Commitment of the technical
of the technical ministries in ministries concerned  reports. Ministry of  ministries
prevention               have allocated annual  Finance's analytical
budget to the fight    report
against HIV/AIDS
Key Performance       Data Collection
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators            Strategy         Critical Assumptions
Project Development      Outcome / Impact       Project reports:   (from Objective to Goal)
ObJective:               Indicators:
I. Prevent spread of HIV  By 2006:
by reducing transmission
among high risk groups
(i) Promote sexual behavior 70% of boys aged 15  Second Generation  IEC impacts successfully on
that reduces the risk of  tol9 report using a   Surveillance System  behavior patterns.
transmitting HIV/AIDS    condom during their last                  Availability of condoms
sexual encounter
30% of women aged 20   Second Generation
to 49 are familiar with  Surveillance System
the female condom.
80% of women aged 20   Second Generation
to 49 know at least two  Surveillance System
methods of protection
against HIV/AIDS.
65% of adult males     Second Generation  Involvement of all partners
reported using a condom  Surveillance System  concerned
with an irregular partner
during the past 12
months
60% of women aged 20   Second Generation
to 49 report using a   Surveillance System
condom with an irregular
partner during the last 12
months



37
80% of men in uniform  Second Generation  Commitment of the highest
use condoms with       Surveillance System  authorities of the military,
irregular partners                        police, customs and fire
_________________   departments
(ii) Strengthen HIVIAIDS  Prevalence of STIs    Prevalence surveys.  Availability and accessibility
controls for commercial sex  among commercial sex  STI surveillance  of condoms and IST
workers                  workers falls from: - 15                  medication
to 10% for Trichomonas;
- 4 to 2% for
Gonococcie, and 20 to
15% for Syphilis
Percentage of          Second generation  Involvement of leaders of
commercial sex workers  surveillance system  commercial sex workers
tracked report using a                    groups.
condom during their last                  Involvement of police
sexual encounter:                         authorities
- increases from 56 to
70% with a regular
partners (not client)
- is over 95% with
clients
30% of commercial sex  Activity reports   Availability of female
workers tracked use                       condom
female condoms
(iii) Reduce risk of people  Reduce by 50 percent  Prevalence survey
receiving blood products  blood product related  and Surveillance
HIV/AIDS infections    system
Key Performance       Data Collection
Hierarchy of Objectives      Indicgtors             Strategy         Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Process/output        Project Reports     From Oitputs to Objecfive
Component                 indicators           .._                            .   .   _-
A. Strengthening the
Capacity of implementing
Agencies and coordination
structures
1. Support to HIV Units  90% of target Ministries, Project monitoring  Political commitment from
state enterprises have a  reports         leaders of different ministries
functioning coordination                  and state enterprises
committee, a designated  Government budget
focal point, an HIV
action plan, and a budget
to finance the relevant
HIV action plan
90 % of CSOs and       Project monitoring  Contracted agencies able to
NGOs involved in      reports             provide the relevant capacity
project implementation                    building
have received capacity
building in the areas of



38
sub-project design,
participatory planning
and monitoring of CBO
initiatives
80 % of relevant       Project monitoring  MOH and contracted
personnel in health   reports             agencies have the capacity to
system trained in a)                      train the target personnel
syndromic treatment of
STIs, b) oportunitistic
infections, c) TB, d)
prevention of mother to
child transmission, and
e) ART management
2. Support to Monitoring  Biological surveillance  Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH and
and Evaluation           system in place, covering reports         contracted agencies
10 regions,
disseminating relevant
reports quarterly
80% of national and    Epidemiological    Capacity of national, regional
regional referral centers  bulletin       and referral centers
notify AIDS cases
Behavioral surveillance  Project monitoring  Capacity of contracted
system in place,       reports            agency
disseminating annual
reports
Epidemiological bulletin  Epidemiological  Capacity of contracted
published every two    bulletin           agency
years
75% of research project  Project monitoring
identified as priority  reports
have been financed



39
B. Support to Civil
Society and Community
Based Initiatives in the
area of prevention, care
and mitigation
Number of CSO and    Project monitoring  Capacity of relevant CBOs
CBO sub projects:    reports           and CSOs
a) received, b)
approved, c) financed,
and d)successfully
concluded
Number of VCT        Project monitoring  Capacity of relevant CSOs
centers managed by  reports
CSOs
80% of registered    Epidemiological   Capacity of relevant CBOs
orphans have received  Bulletin and project and CSOs
social support at    monitoring reports
community level
C. Support to
Governmental Agencies
Multi-sector Programs
1. IEC Information,    HIV education       Ministry of       Commitment of leadership at
Education and          curricula implemented  Education curricula MoE
Communication          at all levels and
branches of education
system
2. Social Marketing of  Condoms available at  Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH, contracted
condoms                80 percent of public  report           CSOs and CBOs
baths
3. MTCT - Mitigation   95% of children born  Epidemiological  Capacity of MoH or
HIV mother to child   to HIV infected       bulletin and project contracted agencies
Transmission.          mothers will be      monitoring reports
provided with the
relevant treatment and
care
4. VCT - Voluntary     VCT centers in 10    Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH or
counseling and Testing  regions             report            contracted agencies
Utilization of VCT up  Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH or
by 10 percent every  report            contracted agencies, and
_____________________  year            impact of IEC  campaigns



40
5. Blood banks         Blood banks in Bakel,  Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH
Kedougou, and Fatick  report
100% of blood banks  Epidemiological   Capacity of MoH
ensure systematic    bulleting and
testing of donors for  project monitoring
H[V, hepatitis B and  reports
Syphilis, and 100% of
transfused blood has
been tested for those
infections
6. Diagnosis, treatment  Reference Facilities in  Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH or
and care of HIV/AIDS   10 regions, providing  reports         contracted agencies
patients               standard integrated
diagnosis, treatment
and care for
HIV/AIDS, including
a) VCT, b) STIs, c)
opportunistic
infections, d) TB, e)
prevention of mother
to child transmission
and f) ARV and the
relevant medication
50% reduction in     Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH or
stock-outs of HIV    report            contracted agencies
related medications.
90% of referral centers Project monitoring  Capacity of MoH or
possess ART kits to  report            contracted agencies
treat accidental
exposure
7,000 HIV/AIDS       Epidemiological   Capacity of MoH or
patients have received  Bulletin and project contracted agencies
ARV treatment        monitoring reports
95% of PLWHA under Epidemiological     Capacity of MoH services
ARV treatment receive Bulletin and project
psycho-social support  monitoring reports
D. Support to Project
Management and
Administration
100% of activities in
PIP planned activities
concluded
100% of project funds
disbursed
No misprocurement



41
[ Hierarchy of Objectives  Key Performance   Data Collection    Critical Assumptions
Indicators         Strategy
Project Components and  Inputs             Project Reports  (from Components to
Subcomponents         __       _                            Outputs)
A. Strengthening the   US$2.0 million      Project data     Capacity of NES
Capacity of implementing
Agencies and
coordination structures
B. Support to Civil    US$12.5 million    Project data      Capacity of NES, CSO and
Society and Community                                       CBO, quality of capacity
Based Initiatives in the                                    building actions
area of prevention, care
and miitigation
C. Support to          US$12.5 million    Project data      Capacity of NES
Governmental Agencies
Multi-sector Programs
D. Support to Project  US$3.0 million     Project data      Capacity of NES
Management and
Administration



42
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
SENEGAL HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
The project will support implementation of Senegal's strategic plan by a wide
variety of public sector agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and by
community-based organizations. It will be carried over a five-year period extending from
2002 to 2006 to coincide with the strategic plan's duration and will be complementary to
other donors activities. The project aims at building additional planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation capacity of public and private entities and expanding existing
prevention, treatment and mitigation programs. It will be implemented through four major
components as follows:
Project Implementation by Component:
Part A - Strengthening the capacity of implementing agencies and coordination
structures (US$ 2.0 million)
This component is designed to reinforce the resource management, implementation
and monitoring and evaluation capacity of government agencies and civil society
(including the private sector), and to strengthen the capacity of local organizations and
rural communities in the design and implementation of demand-driven HIV/AIDS
activities. The national HIV/AIDS Council, its Secretariat and its decentralized structures
at the regional and district levels will also be provided technical, financial and material
support to coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of the national strategic plan.
More specifically, capacity-building support will consist of two sub-components:
Support to HIV/Units. This sub-component will cover the provision of technical
support services and training to HIV/AIDS units of line ministries, parastatals and civil
society organizations with an emphasis on project design, participatory planning, and
monitoring of community-based activities, and the training of lab technicians, medical and
paramedical staff and social workers to strengthen VCT, the prevention of mother to child
transmission, the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infection and tuberculosis and
the provision of ART; the sub-component will also cover the provision of capacity
building services to civil society by (i) the project structures including the FMA (for
financial management) and (ii) NGOs and other agencies who can supply reputable
capacity building services to other civil society organizations.
Support to Monitoring and Evaluation. This sub-component will consist of the
provision of technical support services, equipment and materials to implement a
comprehensive Monitoring & Evaluation plan consisting of epidemiological surveillance
and research, behavior surveys, financial and program management and operation research
to ensure maximum program learning and dissemination. Senegal has excellent capacity
and established international partnerships in both biological and behavioral surveillance
and epidemiological research. In contrast, program management capacity which relates to



43
the relevance, quantity and quality of public sector and civil society services is less
developed. Consequently, this sub-component will have more of a major focus on the
latter element of the M&E plan and will complement and draw upon the insights of
ongoing surveillance activities in support of efforts by the Ministry of Health and
Prevention to progressively expand coverage nationwide. The scope of research activities
to be funded under this sub-component include social and economic impact studies,
HIV/AIDS household impact and cost effectiveness of HIV/AIDS interventions, situation
analysis and assessment of knowledge, attitudes and practices in sexual behavior and
attitude toward PLWHA. The number of epidemiological sentinel sites will be expanded
from 5 to 10 locations to ensure nation wide coverage by the end of project year two. On
financial and program management monitoring, Senegal has agreed to outsource the
projects financial management to a single agency which will also be responsible for
financial and program management monitoring and evaluation. terms of reference were
prepared and agreed upon during project's preparation and a firm will be appointed before
credit effectiveness.
Part B - Support to civil society and community-based initiatives in the area of
prevention, care, social support and mitigation (Total Grant US$ 12.5 million).
Using a grant mechanism managed by the FMA, this component is designed to
intensify prevention, care and social support to meet the information needs of specific
target groups and PLWHA and their families, and to ensure continuity and expansion of
successful HIV/AIDS mitigation activities adapted to local conditions and managed by
grassroots organizations and communities.  The component will also promote and
encourage initiatives of private sector enterprises to develop and implement prevention,
care and support strategies designed for their employees and their families. Funds will be
channeled directly through grants to associations, religious organizations, private
enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations to cover a wide range of activities
including: (i) prevention and sensitization activities targeted to specific groups at high risk
and aimed at raising awareness and changing behavior including IEC activities at job
sites; (ii) provision of home and community-based care for AIDS patients; and (iii) social
support to PLWA, orphans and households affected by HIV/AIDS. Activities include
nutrition, income generation activities support to school enrollment of orphans.
Government's and grants recipients' responsibilities will be embodied in a contractual
agreement signed before works start. Eligibility criteria, norms and standards for
implementation of sub-projects under this grant mechanism are described in a specific
module of the project operation manual but are summarized below:
Within the Civil Society organizations, NGOs have been classified according to
experience and capacity and this classification will act as a guide to eligibility under the
project for different levels of financing. The maximum amount was set at US$ 200,000 per
applicant for national projects (more than one region). Each civil society organization will
submit an action plan to the financial management agency at the national or regional level
according to the level of financing proposed and the geographic coverage of the project:



44
*  If the project covers more than one region and its budget is over US$ 30,000,
the application must be sent to the national office of the fiduciary agency with a
copy sent to the NES.
*  If the project covers one region or many departments in one region and its
budget is less than US$ 30,000, the application must be sent to the regional
office of the financial management agency with a copy sent to the RAC.
*  If the project covers one department or a number of rural communities in one
region and its budget is less than $10,000, the application must be sent to the
regional office of the financial management agency with a copy sent to the
DAC.
The projects will be analyzed by the fiduciary agency according to the eligibility
criteria set out in the cahier de charge and manual of procedures (e.g. legal status, bank
account, management ability and experience). The fiduciary agency will organize regular
meetings of the selection committees to be presided over by the NES or regional AIDS
Committee according to the project's scope and scale. The selection committees chaired by
the NES or regional AIDS Committee will receive a synthesis report from the fiduciary
agency and approve or reject the proposals according to criteria set out in the manual of
procedures. The NES, RAC and DAC committees will also ensure the proposals fit within
the scope of the NSP and ensure the technical quality of the proposals. The fiduciary
agency will establish contracts with the implementing agencies under delegated authority
from the NES and disburse according to procedures in the manual of procedures. It will
also ensure the collection and analysis of project financial reports for submission to the
NES. All procedures will have detailed timeframes to be specified in the Project
Operational Manual.
Part C - Support to Governmental Agencies Multi-Sector program
(US$ 10.7 million).
The purpose of this component is to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS
activities implemented by government entities. Several ministries are in the process of
developing detailed work plans and budget and will be eligible for support under the
project as of project year one. All line ministries will reinforce existing coordinating units
at the central level and ensure participation of their staff at regional and departmental
levels in AIDS control committees (CRLS, CDLS). They also expressed needs to set up a
communication plan for prevention campaigns in their respective sectors and the NES will
coordinate a comprehensive communication plan that will include civil society need and be
contracted out to specialized social marketing agencies.
Line ministries also have specific activities described below:
*  The Ministry of Health's activities are already covered in the main body of the
PAD
*  The Ministry of Youth will reinforce the capacity of staff in departmental youth
centers to address issues related to HIV/AIDS and integrate AIDS prevention
activities in ongoing programs such as existing counseling centers (Centres



45
d'Ecoutes/Conseil) created to improve access of young people to reproductive
health services.
*  The Ministry of Education will strengthen its efforts to include HIV/AIDS
prevention messages in primary and secondary school curricula as well as
vocational training centers materials. Standardized training modules are already
available and will be distributed throughout the country using IDA funds.
*  The Ministry of Women will work with the Ministry of Social Development to
include HIV/AIDS prevention activities in existing women's' groups' plans of
action, focusing on gender-related issues and socio-cultural barriers that could
increase the spread of AIDS.
* The Ministries of Army and Interior developed an integrated plan of action that will
prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and develop care and support activities targeted at
people in uniform and their families.
*  The Ministry of Labor recently developed a strategy in partnership with ILO to
address legal aspects of AIDS and related stigmatization in the workplace and
promote implementation of AIDS prevention activities by enterprises and labor
unions.
To expand this public sector response, the NES will conduct information and advocacy
activities towards other ministries, such as the recently created Ministry of Tourism, to
develop AIDS control action plans. Additional ministries and state enterprises would also
have access to IDA funds once they develop their own plans with activities and budgets.
Activities under this component cover the full spectrum of prevention, treatment, care
and support and include:
*  IEC - the design, implementation and evaluation of information, education and
communication (IEC) programs aimed at specific audiences such as adolescents
(both genders) in and out of school, women, youth, and men in uniform; and high
risk groups such as commercial sex worker (CSW) and men having sex with men
(MSM);
*  Social Marketing - Promotion and distribution of condoms;
*  MTCT - Mitigation of HIV/AIDS mother to child transmission;
* VCT - promotion of and access to voluntary HIV counseling and testing (VCT);
* Blood banks - screening of donors and quality control for transfused blood
products; and
* Diagnosis, treatment and care of HIV patients, including clinical management of
sexually transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections, TB, and pilot anti-retroviral
infections.
IEC. The IEC program which will be supported under this component aims at
maintaining awareness of HIV/AIDS risks and protection measures. It will promote
behavior change for safe sex practices and risk reduction, and advocate among public and
private leaders with respect to human rights protection, abolition of discriminatory
practices and learning to live with PLWHA. Use of the mass media will be an important



46
channel of communication. A communication strategy will be put in place to ensure
effective communication to all sectors of the public and civil society.
Social Marketing. This component will support the use of social marketing for
condom promotion and distribution. Peer groups, vending machines and other social
marketing strategies will also be used to make condoms accessible to all segments of the
adolescent and adult population. Each ministry can choose its strategy to make condoms
available and accessible to its staff and clients, and visible access to condoms in public
places will be encouraged.
Mitigation of HIV/AIDS mother to child transmission. The project will support the
decentralization of the MOHP pilot PMCT program to at least one clinical site in each of
the ten regions of the country during the period 2002-2006. The objective is to achieve a
level of 80% awareness of mother to child transmission among women aged 15 to 49, and
to reduce the transmission rate from 30% to 15%. Ninety percent of children born to HIV-
infected mothers will be provided with care and treatment at the end of the project.
Specific activities will consist of: a) the gradual establishment, training and equipping
of multidisciplinary teams in each of the ten regions of the country under the supervision
of a national team composed of leading gynecologists, pediatricians, biologists and social
workers,
b) implementation of a program of pre-test and post-test counseling and the voluntary
testing of a target total of 58,000 pregnant women in pre-natal consultations during the
period 2002-2006;
c) expanding access to short regimen treatment using Zidovudine or Nevirapine drugs;
d) expanding access to Anti-Retroviral Treatment therapy in accordance with national
standards; e) the development and implementation of specific psycho-social support and
IEC activities targeting HIV-infected pregnant women covering topics such as nutrition,
breast feeding practices and the use of milk substitutes; and f) the establishment of a
supervision and monitoring system to ensure effective control and quality of
implementation of PMCT protocols and guidelines, and efficient follow-up and monitoring
of patients.
Diagnosis, treatment and care of HIV/AIDS patients. This will be based on the
expansion of ISAARV (Initiative Senegalaise d 'Acces aux Antiretroviraux). Launched in
2000 and currently limited to the city of Dakar, ISAARV will be progressively
decentralized to the main cities of the country (Saint Louis, Kaolack, Ziginchor and
Tambacounda). For this purpose, the project will strengthen voluntary counseling and
confidential testing and laboratory capacity to help scale up the diagnosis, treatment and
care for HIV/AIDS patients. This is part of the MOHP's objective to reduce HIV
transmission, reduce worker disability and improve the quality of life for HIV/AIDS
patients. This component will also support activities aimed at improving the diagnosis and
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections, and tuberculosis. It
will contribute, as needed, to the strengthening of drug management, patient management
(eligibility, clinical and biological follow-up) and psycho-social and economic support to
PLWHA. Bio-medical equipment will be purchased to monitor the immunology and



47
virology parameters of HIV infection. Financing will be made available to cover the costs
of minor renovations in selected laboratory facilities, the procurement of reagents and
drugs for the treatment of STIs, Ols, TB and other HIV-related illnesses. In May 2000 the
Government of Senegal joined the Accelerated Access Initiative launched by the
pharmaceutical producers of anti-retroviral drugs and indicated its intention to continue its
ARV drug procurement plan under an arrangement with those companies which provided
price reductions (up to 95%). It is worth mentioning that two producers have agreed to
donate Nevirapine and Flucanazole, two of the drugs used in the ART regimen in Senegal.
Funds under the IDA Credit will also be made available, as necessary, to supplement
Government financing of ARV drug procurement.
Part D) - Support to project management and administration (US$ 3.0 million).
This component will provide support to facilitate the programming, coordination,
and monitoring of project operations, including support to NAC and NES to ensure
complementarity and efficient coordination of activities by all concerned parties and to
consolidate activity plans, budgets and progress reports. The component will support the
deployment of skilled and experienced manpower to staff essential coordinating structures
and will fund services of a financial management agent, technical and financial audits,
logistic support to facilitate project supervision and reporting, and the organization of
CNLS/NES regular meetings and annual project reviews.



48
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component            US $million  US $million  US $million
Component 1                                        1.77        0.00        1.77
Component 2                                       13.88        0.00       13.88
Component 3                                        3.69        7.15       10.84
Component 4                                        2.59        0.14       2.73
Unallocated                                        1.33        0.72        2.05
Total Baseline Cost                               23.28        8.00       31.28
Physical Contingencies                            0.32        0.36        0.68
Price Contingencies                               0.26        0.00        0.26
Total Project Costs1           23.85        8.36       32.21
Total Financing Required            23.85    _   8.36      32.21
Local      Foreign     Total
Project Cost By Category           US $million  US $million  US $million
Civil Works                                         0.92        0.00        0.92
Drugs and Bio-medical Equipment                     0.00        7.17        7. 1 7
Equipment (Other)                                   0.96        0.47        1.44
Services                                            4.95        0.00        4.95
Operations                                          1.77        0.00        1.77
Grants                                             13.88        0.00       13.88
Unallocated                                         1.36        0.72        2.08
Total Project Costs   23.85        8.36       32.21
Total Financing Required   23.85         8.36      32.21



49
Annex 4
Economic and Financial Analysis
SENEGAL HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
This section analyses the benefits and costs of the HIV/AIDS Prevention project in
Senegal. The total cost of the project is US$ 30.0 million over 5 years (2002-06). The
data for prevalence rates for HIV/AIDS and deaths related to AIDS is estimated using
information from the UNAIDS website, and from the Bulletin Epidemiologique HIV,
Comite National de Prevention du SIDA CNPS, Senegal, 2000. The data for population
and other economic indicators are from WDI, World Bank, 2001. The population annual
growth rate for year 2000 is 2.4 percent. The annual GDP per capita growth rate is 2.6
percent.
The following formula' has been applied to estimate the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in
Senegal between 1999 and 2040:
(1)   Prevalence = h = H * exp (aO + al* t) / (1 + exp (aO + al*t)
Where: h=country specific prevalence rate, H= max prevalence rate of 40 (and
varied assumptions have been used), t=years from first incidence of AIDS case reporting
(1984). aO and al are the coefficients from the regression of log (h/(H-h)) taking three
reported points in time 0.19% for 1984, 1.44% for 1994, and 1.77% for 1999.
Figure 1 plots the results of formula 1. The top solid curve is the growth in
prevalence rate without HIV/AIDS intervention programs, and taking the maximum
prevalence (P) that a country could have as 40. The next solid curve marked as "current"
is the growth in prevalence rate in Senegal, but taking the maximum prevalence of 30.
This line also represents the current HIV/AIDS prevalence rate of 1.77 percent reported for
adults in 1999 by Senegal. The other curves reflect the growth in prevalence rate after the
introduction of intervention programs. These various curves reflect the reduced prevalence
rates between 5 and 32 percent.
In order to maintain a prevalence rate of 3 percent in 2006, the HIV/AIDS
prevalence would have to decline by over 30 percent between 2001 and 2006. This is
indicated in Figure 1 by the solid line with a maximum prevalence of 20 percent.
For this simulation, an assumption is taken that the intervention program will
reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence by 10 percent between 2001 and 2006. This curve is
indicated by an arrow and marked as "Project" in Figure 1, and with a maximum
prevalence of 27 percent.
l Robalino, David, Carol Jenkins and Karim El-Maaroufi. 2001. Assessing Potential Economic Impact of
HIV/AIDS in the MENA Region. Working Paper, World Bank.



50
Figure 1: Senegal HIV/AIDS Prevalence Rates (1984 - 2040)
0.4500
0.4000                                  ,No Project (Max P=40%)
0.3500                               /                     _ Max P=32%
_ 0.3000                                          urrent   -Max P30%
x,, 0.2500                         /                             X 0 -Max P-27%
> 0.2000                      ////         Max P=20      -   Max P=25%
-                                                           - {AX  /  i   Max P=20%
- 0.1500
0.0  /    -                 f   ---Max P=15%      i
0.1000
0.0500~~~~ --                                    ----- Mvax P I 9%/
-Max P-=5%
0.0000-                                --
Year  1980   1990   2000   2010   2020   2030   2040   2050
Source: Author's calculations using formula (1), idea adopted from Confronting AIDS:
Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic. A World Bank Policy Research Report. World
Bank, Washington, DC, 1997.
For purposes of analysis, two hypothetical scenarios are developed. Table I shows
the baseline prevalence rates for Senegal without the new project interventions (case I with
a max P=30). Table 2 displays the results when the prevalence rate is reduced by
10 percent from case 1 due to project intervention (case 2 with a max P=27). This is a
conservative estimate selected for this simulation, and marked by an arrow in Figure 1.
The footnotes of these Tables I and 2 give the assumptions of the simulations. The results
follow:
The simulation in case I (no project intervention) reports that the incidence rate of
HIV/AIDS increased from 4,906 annual new adult cases per million population in 2001 to
9,714 annual new adult cases per million population in 2006. The prevalence rate
increased from 1.7 percent of adults in 1999 to 2.3 percent of adults in 2001 to 5.0 percent
of adults in 2006.
The simulation in case 2 is the situation where an intervention project is introduced
in 2002, and reports that in the five year project lifecycle, the incidence for HIV/AIDS
increased from 4,906 annual new adult cases per million population in 2001 to 8,628
annual new adult cases per million population in 2006. The prevalence rate for HIV/AIDS
increased from 1.7 percent of adults in 1999 to 2.3 percent of adults in 2001 to 4.4 percent



51
of adults in 2006. This is an overall decline during the project lifetime in prevalence of
10 percent from case 1 (no project intervention).
Given the above scenarios, the impact of the project is low in the first five years of
the project lifecycle. However, the impact increases beyond the fifth year, and shows a
marked reduction in the number of new cases and the prevalence of HIV/AIDS.
Table 3 provides an estimation of the project benefits from the HIV/AIDS
prevention. The simulation assumptions are as follows: (i) on average, averting HIV/AIDS
infection buys an individual 10 more years of productive life, (ii) a patient who gets
infected will live for 5 more years with adequate care, (iii) the average annual cost of care
per patient is US$ 79 (excluding HAART), and (iv) project benefits accrue from second
year of project inception. The results of the simulation show that the 5 years project
lifecycle could avert infections among 21,282 cases. In dollar terms, this would translate
to about US$ 36 million of benefits through averting productivity losses and through
averting costs of care.
Table 4 shows the net present value (NPV2) and the internal rate of return (IRR3)
over the project lifecycle and beyond the project lifetime. The NPV for the first five years
from the inception of the project is US$ 4.5 million and the IRR is 26 percent. However,
the situation changes a year after that when NPV is almost US$ 20 million and IRR is
53 percent. The NPV and IRR grow positive and increase beyond project lifetime.
Table 5 provides the summaries of the sensitivity analysis - the switching values of
critical items. The results of the simulation are as follows:
*   A delay in the project benefits from    year 2 to 3, reduces the IRR, although it
remains positive beyond project lifetime; however if project benefits are accrued in
the first year of the project, then IRR increases to 45 percent at the end of the
project lifetime; and
*   IRR increases several folds as a result of the slowing down of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, and a reduction of the prevalence rate by 15 percent instead of by
10 percent due to project intervention. Although, if the prevalence rate does not
reduce by 10 percent, and instead reduces by only 5 percent, then the IRR at the
end of the five years is 0, but improves beyond the lifetime of the project.
The Cost-Benefit Analysis shows therefore that the HIV/AIDS prevention project can
slow down the growth in the epidemic. However, the extent to which the epidemic can
slow down depends on the effectiveness of the prevention program. Given the above
scenarios, the impact of the project is low in the first five years of the project lifecycle;
2 The Net Present Value (NPV) of a stream of costs and benefits is a number that results from discounting the values of the stream at a
given discount rate. The NPV value of a stream is equivalent to the amount that would have to be invested today in order to obtain a
return r for N years. In short, NPV is the sum of discounted net benefits over time. Belli, Pedro, et. Al., Economic Analysis of
Investment Operations: Analytical Tools and Practical Apnlications. The World Bank Institute. WBI Development Studies. The World
Bank. 2001
' The intemal rate of return (IRR) of an income stream is that discount rate that makes the stream of net retums equal to a present value
of zero. The IRR is then compared with the market rate of interest to determine whether a proposed project should be undertaken. Ibid.



52
however, the impact increases beyond the fifth year.  The hypothetical situation
demonstrates that the benefits can be far greater from the HIV/AIDS prevention project, if
there is a larger slowing down in the growth of the epidemic due to the project, which is
also dependent on the intervention programs. The cost-benefit analysis therefore supports
the implementation of a HIV/AIDS prevention project.
Sustainability of the HAART
About 20 percent (or 15,560) of the HIV/AIDS patients are expected to require
HAART treatment in 2000. In order to cover all the patients who require HAART, the
government would require about US$ 168 million between 2002 and 2006. The budget for
covering all HIV/AIDS patients requiring HAART is enormous, and by 2006 could take up
as much as 26 percent of the public sector health budget, or 0.7 percent of GDP.
In 2000, HAART is expected to be used by about 3,890 HIV/AIDS patients (or
25 percent of those who required the HAART treatment). This would make up about
2.8 percent of public sector health expenditure, and 0.07 percent of GDP. This is a large
amount of the budget being spent for prolonging life of only a few individuals. A larger
proportion of the population die due to communicable diseases and due to peri-
natal/maternal causes, and the intervention programs supporting reproductive health and
IMCI sub-components are far more cost-effective (ranging between $ 4 and $ 38 per life
year saved in Kenya). Whereas, averting deaths of HIV/AIDS patients are much higher.
In the case of Kenya, HIV/AIDS community-based interventions were $ 69 per life year
saved, preventive interventions were $ 128 per life year saved, and curative interventions
were $ 6,338 per life year saved.
The annual cost of the HAART drugs in Senegal is approximately US$ 1000 per
person per year, and the average annual GDP per capita is about US$ 512. Currently, the
government subsidizes the costs of HAART to patients from 0 to 100% based on the
income of the household. If the government maintains the current balance, then between
2002 and 2006, about 41,000 patients are expected to be provided with the HAART
treatment with a cost of US$ 41 million. This will make up about 6 percent of the public
sector health budget and 0.16 percent of GDP in 2006.
This raises some concerns. First, the figures -which are underestimated as they do
not take into account the cost of lab exams-show that the public sector is likely to have
difficulties in sustaining the enormous cost burden of HAART, as it may not be fiscally
sustainable.  Second, most patients who are expected to access the HAART
treatment/services are most likely to be living in urban areas, and are therefore likely to
belong to the relatively better off income and education groups. The poor of Senegal-
those living in rural, remote and under-served areas- are less likely to receive the treatment,
or are less likely to comply with the treatment as they already have lower access to basic
health care than richer groups. This will lead to equity concerns. Finally, in order for the
government to subsidize HAART, the limited public resources may be substituted away
from other illnesses. In particular, if chronic and critical ailments, such as cervical cancer,



53
and others, do not benefit from comparable subsidy, this will create an additional inequity
of a different nature, inequity between patients vis a vis health care.
During the project lifetime, further economic analysis will be required, as much
information is not available on the costs and benefits of the HIV/AIDS. Some of the
potential research areas are as follows: (i) cost-effectiveness analysis of the prevention,
treatment, and care programs for opportunistic infections; (ii) cost-effectiveness of the
prevention, treatment (anti-retroviral drugs and therapies) and care of HIV/AIDS; (iii) drug
efficacy and increase in survival due to prevention and treatment form HIV/AIDS,
especially HAART, (iv) fiscal sustainability and equity concerns regarding the provision of
HAART, (v) a systematic review of the access of AIDS patients to different types of
preventions (e.g. VCT), treatments or therapies provided by the public or private sectors,
what are their likely gaps and benefits; (vi) socio-economic profile of the high risk and
AIDS patients, (vii) the impact of AIDS on the poorest households, (viii) the costing and
financing of opportunistic infections and HIV/AIDS, and (ix) surveillance system and
reporting of incidence, morbidity and mortality.



54
Table 1: Senegal, HIV/AEDS Prevalence Rate Increases following historical growth trend
(with no project intervention max P=30%)
Year Population (excL AIDS  Incidence Prevalence Adults  Adult  Incidence
deaths)         Adults                    Deaths     Rate
Total     Adults              Number Percent            Adults
(15-49yrs)           of Cases                    (per
_million)
1999                                             1.70
9,285,310  4,272,563   12,755    72,803 _3,640              2,985
2000                                             2.00
___  9,522,100  4,380,360  18,415    87,578    __     3,640     4,204
2001                                             2.34
9,768,462  4,494,548   22,051   105,250       __ 4,379      4,906
2002                                             2.74
10,016,380  4,608,558   26,153   126,140           5,262     5,675
2003                                             3.19
10,263,588  4,722,227   30.882   150,715           6,307     6,540
2004                                             3.71
10,505,902  4,833,631   36,220   179,400       __7,536       7,493
2005                                             4.30
10,739,124  5,057.464   47,176   217,605_  _       8,970     9.328
2006                                             4.97
10,977,799  5,169,330   50,214   256,939          10,880     9,714
2007                                             5.72
11,220,959  5,283,711   58,093   302,185  ____    12,847    10,995
2008                                             6.55
11,469,552  5,400,647   66,755   353,831          15,109     12,361
2009                                             7.47
11,723,232  5,519,958   76,124   412,263          17,692    13,791
2010                                             8.47
___   11,982,077  5,838,308  102,756   494,407   __     20,613    17,600
2015                                            14.44
13,301,310  6,683,387  495,133   964,819     _    24,720    74,084
2020                                            20.65
14,575,202  7,547,280  641,911  1,558,489         48,241    85,052
2025                                            25.30
15,708,772  8,420,759  649,829  2,130,393         77,924   _ 77,170
Source: AIDS Prevalence and death are for 1999 and are from UNAIDS, 2000; AIDS adult
Incidence and
adult AIDS related deaths are from Senegal andfor .2000;
Population from WDI, World Bank, 2001
Assumptions: (I) Population Annual Growth Rate=2.4%, and the deaths due to AIDS (t-1)
have been subtracted
from the population (t);



55
(ii) Prevalence rate increases taking past prevalence for 1984, 1994 and 1999, and then
regressed at log (h/(H-h))
to estimate future prevalence,
The formula is: h =( H * e(aO+alt)) / (1+e(aO+alt)), where t=time, h=current prevalence, H
is max. prevalence=40,
aO and al are regression coefficients; and
Source: Robalino, Jenkins and El-Maaroufi. 2001. Assessing Potential Economic Impact
of HIV/AIDS in the
MENA Region. Working Paper, World Bank.
Table 2: Senegal, HIV/AIDS Incidence Rate Reduced by 5 percent during the project lifetime
(project intervention redu es prevalence by 10 percent)
Year Population (excd. AIDS  Incidence Prevalence Adults  Adult  Incidence
deaths)         Adults                    Deaths     Rate
Total     Adults             Number Percent             Adults
(15-49yrs)           of Cases                    (per
million)
2002                                             2.43
__    I10.017.345  4.608.838  23,231   112.0393 _      4.674      5.040
2003                                             2.83
10.264.749  4,722,602   27,432   133,869           5,602     5,809
2004                                             3.30
_     I O 10.507.294  4.834.117  32.175 _ 59.351  - _   6.693      6.656
2005                                             3.82
10.740.787  5.058.307   41.917   193.300           7.968     8.287
2006                                             4.41
10,979,778  5,170,297   44,610   228,245           9,665     8,628
2007                                             5.08
11,223,358  5,284,890   51,615   268,448          11,412     9,767
2008                                             5.82
11,472,384  5,402,045   59,313   314,339          13,422    10,980
2009                                             6.63
11,726,562  5,521,606   67,642   366,264          15,717    12,250
2010                                             7.52
11,985,975  5,840,283   91,309   439,260          18,313    15,634
2015                                            12.82
13,305,850  6,685,687  439,910   857,207          21,963    65,799
2020                                            18.34
14,580,645  7,550,037  570,344  1,384,690         42,860    75,542
2025                                            22.47
15,719,394  8,426,140  577,879  1,893,335         69,235    68,582
Source: AIDS Prevalence and death are for 1999 and are from UNAIDS, 2000; AIDS adult
Incidence and
adult AIDS related deaths are from Senegal and are for year 2000; Population from WDI,
World Bank, 2001
Note: HIV/AIDS Data is for end of the year



56
Assumptions: (I) Population Annual Growth Rate=2.4%; and the deaths due to AIDS (t-1)
have been subtracted
from the population (t)
(ii) Due to project intervention, the rate of growth in AIDS epidemic slows down, and is
estimated (conservative)
at about 10% lower than the expected prevalence
if no project (see Table 2, year 2006). Prevalence therefore reduces to a diffusion level of
P=27%.
Incidence in year (t) = Prevalence (t) - Prevalence (t-1) + Deaths (t); and
(iii) HIV/AIDS related adult Deaths (t)=5% of adult prevalence (t-1) of HIV/AIDS, and of
all deaths is 10%
of adult prevalence (t-1).
Table 3: Senegal Estimating Project Benefits
(project inter ention redu es prevalence by 10 percent)
Year         HIV       Years of        Averted ($)           Total
Infections    Life    Productivity   Cost of     Benefits
Averted     Saved      Losses        Care         ($)
among adults                    _ _
200(2                                           213 1.930
____   __        __ 2.9'1     2.92'    1,615.282 '_
2003                                             5053 50_
3,448      6.369  _ 3,613.751                4,119.482
2004                                             826.775
_ _  _ _    __4.043       10.413   6,061.412                 6.888.188
20(05                                          I .244.975 _ _
_  ____  _ _  _ 5,267    15.680 __ 9.364,710   __           10.609.685
2006                                           1.689.789
5.602     21 .282  13. 3041.074             14.730.863
2007                                           2,204,100
___ ___         6,477     27,759  17,452,580                19,656,680
2008                                           2,794,926
7,441     35,201  22,706,284                25,501,211
2009                                           3,468,336
8,481     43,682  28,909,741                32,378,077
2010                                           4,377,512
11,451     55,132  37,436,719                41,814,231
2015                                           7,072,424
55,223     89,073  68,766,279                75,838,703
2020                                          10,067,127
71,567    126,790  111,288,320              121,355,447
2025                                          11,395,226
____ _  71,950  143,517  143,220,032               154,615,258
Total (yrs 2-6)                                     4,499,200
Total__yrs 2-6)    21,282    56,665   33,696,229                36,348,217
Source. Author's calculations.



57
Assumptions: (i) Infections Averted is the difference in the incidence between tables 1 and
2;
(ii) On average, averting HIV infection buys an individual 10 more years of productive
life;
(iii) average annual productivity is valued at GDP per capita (US$ 512 in 1999), with a
growth rate of 2.6% annually;
(iv) a patient who gets infected will live for 5 years with adequate care; (v) benefits do not
accrue the first year of the project; and
(vi) the average annual cost of HIV/AIDS interventions in Senegal has been estimated
using the following variables, and is US$ 79/person/year
(excluding HAART, but including the following: clinical management of OI=US$
247/person/yr, home-based care of HIV/AIDS patient=US$ 63/person/yr
prophylaxis for 01 = US$ 30/person/yr, palliative care=IJS$21.50/person/yr., psychosocial
support (VCT)=US$ 3/person/yr.
Assumptions for HIV infected cases: 20% require clinical management of 01, 20% require
home-based care.
35% require prophylaxis for 01, 30% require palliative care, and 15% require psychosoical
management).
Source: Costs of Scaling HIV Program Activities to a National Level in Sub-Saharan
Africa: Methods and Estimates.
AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica), World Bank, Nov. 17, 2000



58
Table 4: Senegal, Internal Rates of Return
(project intervention reduces Prevalence by 10%)
Year Project   Project    Project   Discount   Discounted     NPV         IRR
Costs    Benefits    Net      FMActor       Net           $         (%/)
$         $       Benefits   (r=5%)     Benefits
2)02 3.100.000   _                        1.00  (3.100.000)
.  __  _________(3.1 00.000) _  _               _       __
2003 7.000.000                            1.05  (2,743.350)
_____  4,119.482 (2.880.518) __                    (5.843.350)
2004 7.200.000                            1.10 l  282.823)
_______    6.888.188  (311.812)  ___           _(6.1'6.173) _
2005 5.500.000                            1.16    4.413.938                  -8.2 O
10.609.685  5.109.685       _           _      (1.712 .235)   _
2006 7.200.000                            1.22    6,195.659                  25.700Q
!4,730.863  7.530.863 _________                 4.483.424
2007- -                                   1.28   15,401,523                  53.2%
__ __ _ 19,656,680 19,656,680  _      ______19,884,947 _
2008        0                             1.34   19,029,396                 65.5%
___  ___  25,501,211 25,501,211 _    ____    _    __     38,914,343
2009        0                             1.41   23,010,495                 72.0%
_ ___     _32,378,077 32,378,077  ____    __ ____         61,924,838 ___ _
2010        0                             1.48   28,301,517                  75.8%
_ _     ___    41,814,231 41,814,231 _       _                90,226,355     __ _
2015        0                             1.89   40,218,883                  80.6%
75,838,703 75,838,703                         270,635,665
2020        0                             2.41   50,425,695                  81.0%
121,355,447 121,355,447                        505,429,164
2025        0                             3.07   50,338,291                  81.0%
154,615,258 154,615,258                        758,479,892
Source: Author's calculations.
Note: Because of discounting, the present value of the benefits tapers off rapidly over time,
therefore the stream of benefits is supposed to last for several years after project closing.



59
Table 5: Senegal, Change in IRR as Project Parameters Change
Project Parameters             IRR at the end f the # ofyear, from project inception
5             10           15       Average
(2006)         (2012)       (2017)
Stream of Costs remain as is, but
Stream of Benefits varies, and begins in:
Begin in Projectyear2                             26%          79%         81%        62%
Begin in Project year 1                           45%   9__    99%         100       & 81%
Begin in Project year 3                            7%          66%         68%        47%
During Proect lifetime, prevalence rate reducedj y_                    _   _    __
Ten Percent        _____                          26%          79%         81%        62%
Five Percent                                       0%          45%         49%
Fifteen Percent                                  100%         130%         130%      120%
Source: Author's calculations.
Note: Basic assumptions are as given in footnote of Table 3.



60
Table 6: Senegal, Sustainability of HAART
_    2000      2001      2002       2003      2004 O4    005       2006       Total
_____________  ________  _________  _______   f___  (2002-06)
A.Requirements
for HAART                                                       -
Target                            _
Population         15,560     18,696    22,4081   26,774    31,870     38,660    45,649     165,361
requiring
HAART
Treatment     __________
Percent of           20%       20%        20%l      20%       20%                  20%        20%
HIV/AIDS
target patients
for HAART                                                           __        .        .+
Cost of HAART     -7
to co"er entire  15,560,017 18,696,491 22,407,820 26,773,880'31,870,253 38,660,043 47,931,525 167,643,520
target         j
population
(CFAF)          _                               _                  _ _
Percent of total    6.6%       7.6%1     8.6%       9.8%     11.1%!    12.8%      15.2%      11.5%
health
expenditure      _           _       L                  .I-_               _                   _
Percent of         11.4%1     13.0%     14.9%i     16.9%:    19.2%     22.2%/-   26.2%2      19.90%/o
public sector
health
expenditure   I                                __       j ___   _                       _  _
PercentofGDP |      0.3%1      0.3%      0.4%       0.4%,     0.5%      0.6% _     0.7%       0.5%
B.
Requirements    6,453,5171 8,142,088 10,246,242 12,854,808116,066,790 20,464,221 25,371,967| 85,004,027
for HI VIAIDS
excluding
HAART
(CFAF)                              __|__
Percent oftotall     29%       30%        31%       32%       34%        35%'      35'/,       340%/
cost
requirementsfor
HIV/AIDS       lll>
C Total
HIV/AIDS                  26,838,579 32,654,062139,628,688 47,937,043159,124,264 73,303,491 252.647,548
requirements   22,013,535
(A+B)                                __I                                  _    _
Percent of total    9.3%      10.8%     12.6%1     14.5%     16.7%     19.6%      23.2%      17.3%
health
expenditure
Percent of         16.1%      18.7%     21.7%     25.0%      28.8%     33.9%      40.0%      29.9%
public sector
health
exDenditure              I                    I         I_I_I_I
Percent of GDP      0.4%      0.5%      0.6%       0.7%      0.8%       0.9%1_     l .0%     0.8%



61
D. Current
Government    I
Contribution
for HAART
Government
Population           400i       500     1,304!     1,582     1,818     2,102     2,442      9,248
Coverage and
Projection    __ ____    |  _ _  _                 _ _   _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _-_
Percent of           3%        3%    ~    6%T       6%        6%        5%         5%         6%
target                             I
population               _     _             r
Government                                             1--t_
Financial        420,000    551,250  1,509,543  1,922,931  2,320,280 2,816,881  3,436,139  12,005,774
Contribution
and Projection
(US$)                     _
Percent of total     3%        3%         7%        7%        7%        7%         7%         7%
requirem ents_______                                               ________   _____
Percent of total    62%
AIDS public
sector budt |                       __                  _         _
Percent of          0.3%      0.4%       1.0%/     1.2%      1.4%       1.6%F                1.4%
public sector
health
expenditure        _          __-------L_                    _ ___               
Percent of GDP  _0.01% __0.01%         0.03%r     0.03%     0.04%     0.0470 o'7  0.05%4%
E. Current Expected Use o
HAART (Public and
Private) __
Population     _    _                                                              _
using -IA@ART_      3,890     4,674     5,602     6,693      7,9681    9,665_   11,412     41,340
Percent of          25%j      25%1      25%1       25%'      25%       25%        25%        25%
Population               I
Requiring
HAART
Treatment
Cost of HAARTI                     J               _                                   _   _  _
to cover        3,890,004! 4,674,1231 5,601,955  6,693,470  7,967,563 9,665,011 11,412,268 41,340,267
population
using HAART                                                                  ______
Percent of total    25%<      25%1      25%        25%       25%       25%         4%        25%
requirements    ________|___I
Percent of total    1.6%      1.9%      2.2%       2.5%      2.8%      3.2%       3.6%1      2.8%
health
ex enditure     _                  I
Percent of          2.8%1     3.3%'     3.7%       4.2%      4.8%I     5.5%       6.2%       4.9%
public sector
health
eenditure 
PercentofGDP I     0.07%     0.08%I    0.10%      0.11%     0.13%!     , 0.14%   0.16%      0.13%



62
F. G a,p fo r                      _   _
HAART 
Population not
covered           11,670    14,022    16,806    20,080    23,903   28,995    34,237    124,021
Percent of target   75%       75%       75%       75%      75%       75%       75%        75%
population
Budget required
to meet        11,670,013 14,022,368 16,805,865 20,080,410 23,902,690 28,995,032 36,519,257 126,303,254
additional
population
(US$)          ________                                ___I. _           I
Percent of target   75%       75%       75%       75%       75%      75%       76%        75%
cost                                          _   _    _   _        _   _    _   _   _    _
G. Project                                                                         l
contribulionfor
HAU4T         i                   i!EII
Population                                    --
coverage                               l.400    1.4001    1.400     1.4001    1.400'    7.000
Percent                                  8%T                6% o      h         4o         6%o
co% erage of gap i       - _        ___     ______                        _        _
Financial     i         I                                      t                   I
contribution            ,1I.620.675 I1.701.709, 1 .786.79 1: 1.876.13      1,I 969.9411! 8.955.252
u IS$1                               __ _   _ __ - __ __  __ ____    __       _ 
Percent                              _(___        8qo%      70%                           7%'
co_erage of   _                         _   _   ___
Source: Author's calculations, and some HIV/IAIDS data are.from Senegal.
Note: HAART costs approximately US$ 1,000 per person per year in 2000. It is assutned
that the costs remain constant (with the possibility given that the per capita unit cost
reduces as more people use HAART). This only includes the cost of drugs. HAART is
currently subsidized by government, however, revenue from drugs is unknown at this
time.;
Government budget for HIV/AIDS program in 2000=CFMA 500 million, and had
increased from CFMA 250 million in 1997;
The average annual cost of HIV/AIDS interventions in Senegal has been estimated at US$
79/person/year without HAART. Footnote of Table 3 explains the formula.
Assume: GDP is US$ 4752 million in 1999, and growth rate is 5% annually;
Total health expenditure as a percentage of GDP is 4.5%, and public share is 58% and
remains constant over project lifetime.



63
Annex 5
Financial Summary
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Years Ending
2006
Table 1
Implementation Period
Total      FY 1      FY2        FY3       FY4    |  FY5        Total
Financing
Required
Investmen     5.82      5.80      7.63       5.51      5.68      30.45
t Costs
Recurrent     0.29      0.36       0.35      0.40      0.36       1.77
Costs
Total         6.11      6.17       7.99      5.91      6.04      32.22
Project
Cost
Total         6.11      6.17       7.99      5.91      6.14      32.22
Financing               I_                     _                        l



64
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan
Estimated Financing Plan (as of November 30, 2001)
Total financing available for the National HIV/AIDS Stragtegic
2002             2003           2004            2005           2006             Total
Government Budget Allocations
Ministry of Health..'                 3,464,285.71   3,464,285.71    3,464,285.71   3,464,285.71   3,464,285.71       17,321,428.57
Other Ministries (estimates)            357,142.86     357,142.86     357,142.86      357,142.86     357,142.86        1,785,714.29
Total Govt. Contribution                   3,821,428.57   3,821,428.57   3,821,428.57    3,821,428.57   3,821,428.57      19,107,142.86
NGO and CBO's contributions                 250,000.00     250,000.00      250,000.00     250,000.00     250,000.00        1,250,000.00
IDA                                       3,000,000.00    7,000,000.00   7,000,000.00   6,000,000.00    7,000,000.00      30,000,000.00
Other Donors(2)
UNAIDS                                     21500       tbd            tbd            tbd             tbd                    21500
EU                                         940000       tbd           tbd             tbd            tbd                   940000
USAID                                 1,400,000.00    1,400,000.00   1,40t70.000    1,400,000.00   1,400,000.00        7,000,000.00
France                                  200,000.00     200,000.00     200,000.00     200,000.00      200,000.00        1,000,000.00
Canada                                  310,000.00     310,000.00     310,000.00     310,000.00      310,000.00        1,S50,000.00
Belgiuim                                130,000.00     130,000.00     130,000.00      130,000.00     130,000.00         650,000.00
WHO                                     115,000.00     115,000.00     115,000.00     115,000.00      115,000.00         575,000.00
ILO                                   tbd              tbd            tbd             tbd            tbd                 90,000.00
GTZ (Social Marketing)                  285,714.20     285,714.20     285,714.20      285,714.20     285,714.20        1,428,571.00
UNICEF                                tbd              tbd            thd            tbd             tbd                     0.00
Total Donor Contribution                   3,402,214.20   2,440,714.20   2,440,714.20   2,440,714.20    2,440,714.20      12,293,572.16
TOTAL                                     10,473,642.77  13,512,142.77  13,512,142.77   12,512,142.77  13,512,142.77      62,650,715.02
(I) This includes 7.142 millionprogramed under the PRSP.
(2) This represents parallelfinancingfrom other donors.



65
Annex 6
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Epidemiological Analysis
A. Introduction.
Much of Africa is entering the 21 st century to see the last health gains evaporate as a result
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Because it kills adults and thus decimates the workforce,
fractures families and orphans millions, the AIDS epidemic has such a tremendous impact
on the lives of the people and the economy. Countries are forced to make a choice
between health and several other vital investments for development. Given this reality, the
Government of Senegal and its partners are acting to prevent further HIV infections, to
provide care and support for those who are already infected and to capitalize the gains
already made in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Senegal is often presented as a developing world success story in HIV prevention. The
country has maintained one of the lowest HIV prevalence levels in sub-Saharan Africa,
having risen only slightly from 1.2 percent in the adult population in 1995 to 1.4 percent at
the end of 2000. This comparatively low level in relation to other African countries is due
to a combination of early and comprehensive strategic approaches to controlling the
epidemic, coupled with continued commitment from Senegalese authorities.
B. Current Situation and Issues
1. Epidemiological Indicators:
Senegal has an adult HIV prevalence rate of 1.4 percent, one of the lowest infection rates
in sub-Saharan Africa. At the end of 2000, 80,000 adults and 3,000 children were living
with HIV/AIDS. Women accounted for less than half of adult infections. There have been
at least 20,000 AIDS orphans. Both HIV-1 & HIV-2 viruses are present, and 97 percent of
transmission is heterosexual. Among females ages 15 to 24, the HIV prevalence rate
ranged from 1.12 to 2.97 percent; for males in the same age group, the range was 0.39 to
1.02 percent. The cumulative number of deaths since the beginning of the epidemic is
30,000, of which 5,000 deaths are in 2000. The regional breakdown is given in tables I
and 2 below.



66
Table 1: HIV/IAIDS infectedpersons in different regions of Senegal
HIV/AIDS infected persons            Nouvelles
Total    Adults  Children (- Women    Adult     Infections
15ans)            prevalence
Dakar      20 000    19 400    600      9 000      1,30       1100
Kaolack     14 000    13 600    400      6 000      1,80      1 000
Thies      8 800     8 500     300      4 000      1,00       600
Fatick      7 700    7 400     300      3000       1,50       500
Diourbel     7 200    7 000     200      3100       1,20       500
Saint-Louis   5 800    5 500      300     2 600      0,90       350
Louga       5 500    5 200     300      2 400      1,20       350
Kolda       4 500    4 300     200      2 000      0,80       250
Ziguinchor    3 500    3 300     200       1 500     0,90       600
Tambacounda    3 000    2 800      200      1 400     0,80        250
Senegal     80 000   77 000    3 000    35 000     1,40       5 500
Source: Bulletin Epidemiologique VIH 2000
Table 2: HIV/IAIDS impact in cdiferent regions oJ Senegal
Impact of HIV/AIDS            Population estimate
. Cumullated   Total        % Adult
Orphans   Deaths  Ceated        Total        population
deaths     populaion      (-15 ans)
Dakar        3 700    1 050     5 300      2 050 000       52%
Kaolack       4 300    1 000    6 600      1 120 000        51%
Thies       2 100     500      3 200      1 210 000        54%
Fatick       2 300     500      3 000      650 000         54%
Diourbel      2 000     500      2 900      820 000         52%
Saint-Louis    1 300     300      1 900      840 000          55%
Louga        1 900     400      3 800      650 000         53%
Kolda        1 000     300      1 300      740 000         55%
Ziguinchor      800      200      1 050      560 000         50%
Tambacounda      600      250       950        560 000         50%
Senegal      20 000    5 000    30 000     9 200 000        54%
Source: Bulletin Epidemiologique VIH 2000



67
2. Behavioral indicators:
In 1998, a behavioral monitoring survey (BMS) targeting high risk groups such as sex
workers, migrants and youth, showed that:
*  In urban settings, 95% of women and 98% of men are aware of the HIV epidemic,
slightly higher than in rural settings. However, 16% of women and 8% of men are
unable to identify any HIV prevention measure;
*  Premarital sex: young men engage in sexual activity earlier than young women;
*  Condom use in Dakar: condom use is widespread: 67% among men and 45%
among women. Sex workers use condoms in 99% of cases.
3. Factors of low prevalence of HIVWAIDS in Senegal:
An analysis conducted by the United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) in 1997
and again in 2000 attributed the low prevalence of HIV/AIDS among the general
population in Senegal to the following factors:
a) Conservative cultural norms regarding sex: Premarital sex is relatively less common in
Senegal than in other countries in the region. For women in urban areas, the probability of
first sexual encounter before the age of 20 years is 20 percent compared to 30 percent or
40 percent in neighboring countries;
b) Creation of safe blood supply for transfusion: The national blood supply system, which
has systematically tested for syphilis and hepatitis since the 1970s, wvas reinforced in 1987
to prevent the transmission of HIV through blood transfusion. National and regional blood
banks have appropriate equipment and personnel trained for HIV testing in the country's 10
regions;
c) Registration and regular medical checkup of sex workers: Since 1969, registered sex
workers have been required to undergo an annual health checkup and receive treatment for
curable sexually transmitted infections (STIs). This system of registration has provided a
framework to approach this target group with educational and health campaigns;
d) Promotion of condom use: Condom promotion is a major component of the National
AIDS Control Program strategy. Condoms are distributed free of charge to commercial sex
workers, sexually transmitted infection patients, peer educators, and people who attend
AIDS-related events. In addition, condom social marketing through a fee-based public and
private sector distribution network complements the free condoms available in service
delivery sites throughout the country;
e) Information, education, and communication (IEC) and behavior change communication
(BCC) interventions: Comprehensive information, education, and communication, and
behavior change communication programs through non-governmental organizations and
community-based organizations have targeted specific groups such as sex workers, youth,
low-income women, truck drivers, and spouses of migrant workers. In addition to mass
media campaigns and massive production of information, education, and communication



68
materials, significant efforts have been made to reach youth and women through special
events such as World AIDS Day, Youth Week Against AIDS, and Women's Week Against
AIDS;
f) Active involvement of community, political, and religious leaders: Senegal is fortunate
to have thousands of experienced associations, movements, and community organizations
working in the health field. These groups have served as highly effective conduits for
community and social mobilization for preventive AIDS messages. As early as 1989, the
government collaborated with religious organizations to discuss its AIDS prevention
strategy. In 1995 a national conference of senior religious leaders resulted in their active
support for HIV prevention. The religious leaders themselves have called for a partnership
between Christian and Muslim leaders to join forces in the fight against AIDS;
g) Strengthening the management of sexually transmitted infections using a syndromic
approach: a syndromic approach to sexually transmitted infection treatment has contributed
to improving service quality and increasing population-level awareness about sexually
transmitted infections. Major activities have included a district-level needs assessment and
ethnographic studies, training and intensive supervision of health personnel, and
continuous evaluation of the quality of sexually transmitted infection management services
at the health district level;
h) Monitoring seroprevalence on a continuous basis: Sentinel surveillance of HIV started
in 1987 and provides useful and regular information on the evolution of the epidemic; and
i) Predominance of the less virulent HIV-2 virus.
4. Major vulnerability Factors Facilitating the spread of HIV include
* Constrained condom accessibility;
* Early age of first sexual intercourse;
* Multiple sexual partners, including among adolescents and youth;
* Seasonal migration;
Young and rapidly growing population: the population is growing at 2.8 percent
annually, and 54 percent of the population is under age 15. Fertility is high and
contraceptive use is low (only 8 percent of married women use modern birth spacing
methods):
* High prevalence of STIs and poor sexual and reproductive health;
* Women's subordinate status;
* Low literacy, especially among rural women; and
* Rapid urbanization.



69
Anti-Retroviral Initiative (ISAARV)
Following the 1st declaration of the September 1997 meeting in Dakar on the place of
ART in the treatment of patients affected by AIDS in Africa, two other important
meetings took place in November 1997 and June 1998, to study the feasibility and
implementation procedures of the policy to access anti-retroviral drugs in Senegal.
Various medical experts, pharmaceutical industry representatives, lawyers, representatives
of PLWHA, NGOs and public health managers participated in the meetings. The most
notable practical measures taken following these meetings were:
* The negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry of the cost of drugs;
* the establishment of bio-clinical criteria for eligibility;
* the consensus on prerequisites to be adhered to in ART policy;
* the consensus on preventive treatment using Cotrimoxazole;
* the financial support by the government for the purchase of drugs and reagents;
* the creation of a foundation for financial support;
* the effective start on August 1 st, 1998, of the program of access to ART
* the design and implementation, within this program, of research projects on bio-
clinical
* development, treatment compliance, treatment resistance and alternative ART
treatments; and
* the launching of the Prevention of Mother to-Child Transmission Program
(PMTCT).
The President of the Republic of Senegal and his Government provided and continue to
provide strong support to the AIDS Committee in Facing up to the challenge of
availability and access to anti-retroviral dnigs since fiscal year 1998.
Major Factors such as the Senegalese expertise in HIV/AIDS, the fulfillment of all
established prerequisites, the results of operational research, played an important role in
the negotiations with pharmaceutical companies (Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck,
Bristol Meyer Squib and Roche) that led to a 90% price reduction of ARV treatment.
I. Objectives of ISAARV
ISAARV is part of the national strategic plan for 2000-2006 and is in the process of being
expanded through this project. ISAARV was initiated in Dakar in 1998 and will be
gradually decentralized to the main cities - Saint Louis, Kaolack, Ziguinchor and
Tambacouda - by the end of 2006. The objective of ISAARV is to increase access for
adults and children to Anti-Retroviral Therapy. Through this process of expansion, the
Government will make treatment of tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections and
cancers available to people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), prophylactic treatment to
pregnant women and newborn to prevent HIV mother-to-child transmission, and
prophylactic treatment to health workers, accidentally exposed to contaminated blood.
The 2006 objective is to have 6800 adults and 500 children on ARV treatment (from 550



70
adults and 10 children at the end of 2001), which represents 25 to 30% of the adults in the
need of ARV therapy.
A. Context of the HIV epidemic in Senegal
The monitoring system in Senegal showed a stable HIV prevalence of 1.4% or
approximately 100,000 HIV infected persons, most of them not aware of their status. The
access to treatment has naturally to be seen in the context of this low prevalence and will
rest significantly on its preservation and therefore on the strengthening and reinforcement
of prevention efforts that should be part of ISAARV work if it is to succeed.
Authorities and personnel involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS have built on the
success achieved in AIDS prevention during the past thirteen years and are taking up the
challenge to preserve and strengthen the gains achieved so Far over the next decade.



71
Table 1: Estimation of the number of patients to be treated 2001 - 2006
Price - 700 and 1000 US dollars
Prevalence: 1.4%
Patients treated in 2001 = 550
2001           2002          2003           2004             2005               2006
1.            totalto be       50X12=        60x12=720    80x12=960       lOOxl2=1200       120x12= 1440
Subsidized    treated          600           total to be  total to be     total to be treated  total to be treated
National       550             total to be  treated       treated         2830+1200=        4160+ 1440=6840
Prograrn                      treated        1150+720=     1870+960=      4160
(adults to be                  600+550=      1870         2830
treated)                       1150
2. Subsidized     2x12 +20     4x12= 48       6xz12=72      8x12=96        10x12=120          12x12=144
National           MTCT
Program       total to be treated total to be  total to be  total to be treated total to be treated  total to be treated
pediatric     44/4 = 11        treated      treated        164+96=260     260+120=380        380+144= 524
section +                      44+48=92      92+72=164    260/4=65        380/4=95           524/4=131
MTCT                           92/4=23       164/4=41
3. AEB        24 ART therapy    48 ART       72 ART       96 ART therapy   120 ART therapy   132 ART therapy
kits             therapy kits  therapy kits  kits           kits               kits 132/12=11
24/12 = 2        48/12 = 4    72/12=6       96/12=8         120/12=10
Total under        563            1177          1917          2903         4265 treatments    6982 treatments
treatment       treatments        atments    treatments     treatments                                        l
Adults/year                     _           l            _      __ ___ _
Note: The cost of treating a child has been taken to be 1/4 that of an adult
The cost of treating AEB is taken to be 1/12 that of an adult, per year.
B. Strategies for the use of ART in 2000
ISAARV
Subsidized National   Therapy trials      Pediatric section        MTCT               AEB
Program              - 80                                - 400 pregnant women    -posters
- 86 patients included  - 2 NRTls+ I       - 20 under ART     screened: 6 under AZT   -training
NNRT[s                                                       -ART centers
-ART kit



72
II. Current Status of Activities
A. Anti-Retroviral Treatment
1. Prerequisites for ISAARV
1.1. Ensuring the viral diagnosis of HIV: in Senegal, ten (10) regions have the
laboratories and personnel to diagnose HIV. The strategies for the diagnostic of HIV are
WHO recommended.
1.2. Ensuring thefeasibility of tests: viral load and CD4:
> Viral load: Currently, the laboratory of A. Le Dantec Hospital is equipped for viral
load tests. This has been facilitated by the start of molecular biology activities of
the AIDS Regional Project of the European Union. The laboratory can undertake
the BAYER Quantiplex test (bDNA), which has a detection limit of 50 copies/ml,
and the ROCHE Monitor 1.5 test where the sensitivity threshold is 20 copies/ml.
Good equipment, a regular supply of kits and trained personnel have made these
tests accessible.
> Counting of CD4: Immunological exam for CD4 count by cytofluorometry is
performed at the reference laboratory of A. Le Dantec Hospital. The equipment,
the supply of test kits and trained personne] have made this test accessible.
Currently a less expensive alternative (microscopic count by Dynabeats) is being
evaluated and will be decentralized to the regional health centers
1.3. Strengthening measures to deal with infections and opportunistic cancers.
Technical means for a better diagnostic approach for opportunistic infections (OIs) has
been reinforced. Efforts are being made to make drugs available and accessible to fight
opportunistic infections and  cancers such   as fungus, tuberculosis, atypical
mycobacteriosis, pneumocystosis, viral infections, and Kaposi sarcoma. Consensus on
prophylaxis (Cotrimoxazole) by reference hospitals at the regional and national levels, has
allowed decentralization and systematic preventive treatment of opportunistic infections.
1.4. Identiflcation of centers that would prescribe ART drugs for PLWA besides the
centers in Dakar:
- the Clinic of Infectious Diseases - University Teaching Hospital (UTH) Fann (including
the Ambulatory Treatment Center) and the Medical Clinic of the Principal Hospital for
adults;
- the Albert Royer Hospital, the pediatrics center of the Principal Hospital and the
Guediawaye health center for children;
- the Social Hygiene Institute for groups at risk;
- the maternity ward of the Principal Hospital, of the UTH A. Le Dantec and the
Guediawaye health center for the diagnostic and follow up of pregnant infected women.
These facilities have competent clinicians and workers trained in the psychological and
social handling of patients under anti-retroviral medication.



73
1.5. Benefitingfrom the collaboration of the pharmaceutical industry with ISAARV
Main targets are medical doctors, pharmacists, biologists, nurses and social workers.
1.6. Training of medical and laboratory personnel as well as social assistants and
pharmacists.
2. Therapeutic capacities and biological monitoring
2.1. Bioclinical criteriafor inclusion or exclusion
The medical committee, which is mainly composed of medical doctors, handles PLWHA
medical files satisfying ART criteria for inclusion. This committee checks the inclusion
criteria used and the therapeutic model proposed. Once the choice has been made, the
medical file is sent to the Social Affairs Committee and to the Steering Committee for
Eligibility.



74
Table 2. Inclusion and exclusion criteria
Patients with symptoms          Paucisymptomatic       Asymptomatic patients
patients
Inclusion criteria                     Exclusion criteria   Inclusion criteria Exclusion
criteria Inclusion criteria
Exclusion criteria
HIV +                                  Karnosky index <     Group B CDC 1993 patients
70%                  Same as symptomatic patients
CD4+ cell count < 350/mm
______________________ __  _Same as symptomatic patients
Symptoms of CDC grp 1993               Continuous diarrhea  ShinglesViral load HIV-1 RNA
for 1+ month         > 100,000 copies/ml. Depends
on financial accessibility for
ART
esophagus candidiasis                   Lvmphoma            Recurrent oral candidiasis
pneumocystosis                         Disseminated Kaposi's Prurigo
sarcoma (viscera
cerebral toxoplasmosis                 Neuromeningeal       Severe seborrheic dermatitis
bacterialLpneumopathy, (clinical and X- cryptococcosis
two bacteria] pneumopathy, (clinical and X- Severe psychiatric  CD4 - cell coupt /mm3
rays) responded to treatment           disorder
opportunistic diarrhea:Isopora and     Kidney, liver and heart
Salmonella                             failure               _-
pulmonary tuberculosis or lymph node   Pregnancy
tuberculosis treated for at least two months
history of pneumonococcal meningitis   Lack of efficient
contraception
skin +/- bucal Kaposi's sarcoma normal  Difficulty in follow
chest X-R                           U-
20% weight loss without cachexia       Progressive
opportunistic
infections
Hemoglobin < 7gr/dl
Neutrophilic
leucocytes
< 500/mm3
Platelets <
75,000/mm3
Creatinemia> 150 pil
Transaminases > 3
times normal rate



75
2.2. Therapeutic indications
Choice of anti-retroviral agents is finction of their availability in Dakar (see table 1, list of
ART whose availability.
Table 3. Available Anti-Retroviral Therapy in Senegal
Name       Class         Directions        Presentation          Condition of
administration
AZT                   250 mg x 2/day if    250 mg Gelcaps
Zidovudine    NRTI    weight < 60 Kg       300 mg Tablets    Indifferent
Retrovir              300 mg x 2/day if
weight >= 60 Kg
DdI                   150 mg x 2/day if    100 mg Tablets    On an empty stomach (ES)
Didanosine    NRTI    weight < 60 Kg       150 mg Tablets    1/2h before meals or 2h after
Videx                 200 mg x 2/day if    400 mg Tablets    meals
weight >= 60 Kg                        With IDV: both drugs on ES
at Ih interval
3TC
Lamivudine~   NRTI    150 mg x 2/day       150 mg Tablets    Indifferent
Epivir              I_                                                   _
AZT + 3TC     NRTI    I tablet x 2/day     AZT 300 mg Tablets Indifferent
Combivir                                   3TC 150 mg Tablets ___
D4T                   30 mg x 2/day if weight 15 mg. 2omg, 30mg
Stavudine     NRTI    , 60 Kg              and 40mg Gelcaps  Indifferent
Zerit                 40 mg x 2/day if weight
>= 60 kg              _          _                  _
Abacavir      NRTI    300 mg x 2/day       300 mg Tablets    Indifferent
Ziagen
IDV                                                          On ES, I hour before or 2
Indinavir       PI    800 mg x 3/day       400 mg Gelcaps    hour after meal, drink 1,51
Crixivan                                                     water/day
With DdI: take both drugs on
ES at Ih interval
NFV
Nelfinavir      PI    750 mg x 3/day       250 mg Tablets    During meals
Viracept
NVP                   200 mg/day until Day
Nevirapine   NNRTI    14, then 400 mg/day in  200 mg Tablets  Indifferent
Viramune              one time or in 2 times
EFZ
EFMAviren    NNRTI    600 mg/day in I time  200mg Gelcaps    Better at bedtime
z
Sustiva



76
Alternative Treatment Combinations. Introduction of new combination triple therapy
without protease inhibitors
a) 1 st alternative
- 2 NRTIs + 1 NNRTIs
d4T + ddl
or
d4T + 3TC                *Efavirenz
or             +         or
AZT + ddl                *Nevirapine
or
AZT + 3TC
b) 2nd alternative
- d4T + ddl + 3TC (ATLANTIC)
- AZT + 3TC + ddl (to be evaluated)
- AZT + 3TC + Abacavir (to be evaluated)



77
Anti-Retroviral Therapy to be available in Pediatrics in Senegal
Name       Class      Common Directions     Adaptability of  Available composition
doses for         for the child
newborn
AZT                     90 to 180mg/m2 x 3 to 4  2 mg/Kg x 4        100 mg Gelcaps
Zidovudine    NRTI     yielding approximately 5                     300 mg Tablets
Retrovir               mg/Kg x 4 to 3 or 2 times                   FB I ml = 10 mg
a day
DdI                      90 to 150 mg/M2 x 2     50 mg/jn2 x 2   Available: 25, 50, 100
Didanosine    NRTI     yielding approximately 5                   and 150 mg tablets
Videx                   mg/Kg x 2 on an empty                  'fo optimize the anti-acid
stomach/day                         effect included, take two
(1 dose/day is being                    25 mg tablets at a time
_____        ____            considered)                        instead of 1 50 mg tablet
3TC                        4 mg/Kg x 2/day       2 mg/Kg x 2        150 mg tablets
Lamivudine     NRTI                                                 FB I ml= Irmg
Epivir
d4T           NRTI         I mg/Kg x 2/day       Not indicated    I5. 20, 30 and 40 mg
Stavudine                                                              gelcaps
Zerit                                                               FB I ml = I mg
Abacavir                  8 mg/Kg x 2/day        Not indicated      300 mg tablets
Ziagen        NRTI                                                 FB I ml = 10 mg
__________  _ __________ __           1_         I ml =   20  mg
IDV                    500 mg/M2 x 3/day on an   Not indicated      400 mg Gelcaps
Indinavir       PI         empty stomach                            200 mg Gelcaps
Crixivan                                            _     __   ___
NFV                     25 to 30 mg/Kg x 3/day  10 mg/Kg x 3/day    250 mg Tablets
Nelfinavir      PI                                               FB powder I CM - 50
Viracept                                                                 mg
NVP           NNRT      Child < 8 y: 4 mg/Kg x      Same            200 mg Tablets
Nevirapine       I      1 /day for 15 days then 7                  FB 1 ml = WO mg
Viramune                   mg/Kg x 2/day
Child > 8 y: 4 mg/Kg x
I /day for 15 days then 4
mg/Kg x 2/day
EFZ                    13-15 Kg, 200 mg x 1/day  Not indicated   50,100,200 mg Gelcaps
EFMAvirenz    NNRT     15-20 Kg, 250 mg x 1/day
Sustiva         I      20-25 Kg, 300 mg x 1/day
25-32,5 Kg, 350 mg x
I/day
32,5-40 Kg, 400 mg x
1/day
>= 40 Kg, 600 mg x 1/day



78
2.3. Patients financial contribution to Anti-Retroviral Therapy
a) Double therapy: d4T + ddl
Table 5
Standard of Living   Patients      Patients     % State      State and ART
contribution  contribution:  and ART       Foundation
% of ART     monthly flat  foundation   subsidy flat rate
cost          rate        subsidy
1. Standard of living  100%       132 500 CFAF      0%           0 CFAF
A or insured
2. Standard of living B  56,62%   75 000 CFAF     43,38%      57 500 CFAF
3. Standard of living C  26,4%    35 000 CFAF      73,6%      65 000 CFAF
4. Standard of living D  15,10%   20 000 CFAF      84,9%     112 5000 CFAF
5. Standard of living   0%           0 CFAF        100%       132 500 CFAF
E                                                      __
b) Triple therapy: 3TC + AZT + Crixivan or d4T + ddl + Crixivan
Table 6
Standard of Living   Patients     Patients    % State and    State and ART
contribution  contribution    ART          Foundation
% of ART     : monthly    foundation   subsidy flat rate
cost       flat rate     subsidy
1. Standard of living  100%         320 000        0%            0 CFAF
A or insured                         CFAF
2. Standard of living B  62%     198 000 CFAF      38%        122 000 CFAF
3. Standard of living C  20%      64 000 CFAF      80%        256 000 CFAF
4. Standard of living D  6,26%    20 000 CFAF    93,74%       300 000 CFAF
5. Standard of living   0%          0 CFAF        100%        320 000 CFAF
E
c) Triple therapy: d4T + 3TC + Crixivan



79
Table 7
Standard of Living    Patients      Patients      % State     State and ART
contribution  contribution:   and ART       Foundation
% of ART     monthly flat  foundation   subsidy flat rate
cost          rate         subsidy
1. Standard of living   100%       362 000 CFAF       0%          0 CFAF
A or insured
2. Standard of living B  62%       224 500 CFAF      38%        137 500 CFAF
3. Standard of living C  20%        72 500 CFAF      80%        289 500 CFAF
4. Standard of living D  6,26%      22 500 CFAF     93,74%      339 500 CFAF
5. Standard of living    0%           0 CFMF         100%      362 000 CFAF
E
2.4. Laboratory monitoring:
*+ Biochemical, haematological, immunologic and virologic criteria for monitoring:
* At baseline, before initiation of ART: complete blood count. platelet,
creatineinia, transaminases, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), bilirubin,
amylase, blood glucose, triglycerides, cholesterol, CD4/CD8, HIV-1 RNA.
chest X-ray.
* At one month: complete blood count, platelet, transaminase, creatinemia,
HIV-1 RNA.
* At 2 months: complete blood count, transaminases, creatinemia, amylase,
blood glucose, triglycerides, cholesterol, CPK, bilirubin.
* At 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months: same as at month 2 plus
CD4/CD8 and HIV- 1 RNA.
* Genotypic tests are carried out at initiation of ART and according to the bioclinic
progression.
A. Voluntary Counseling and Testing
Voluntary testing is an important means to prevent THIV infection. The first center for HIV
testing has been established in Dakar. Decentralization of ISAARV will allow for more
centers to open at regional level where needs in human resources, training, and laboratory
equipment have been assessed. A National Guide for Counseling has been developed as
well as norms and guidelines for VCT. The main features of VCT are represented in the
following table:



80
Table 8. Summary of VCT
Objectives                 *  Promote VCT
*  Make VCT services available
*  Make VCT accessible
*  Insure quality services for testing
*  Insure M & E of VCT
2002-2006 prospects     Progressive decentralization of VCT centers to four (4) regions and
six (6) districts where HIV prevalence is the highest
Strategies                *  IEC
* Advocacy
* Social marketing of VCT
* Decentralization
* Design and develop standardized guides
* Definition of norms and guidelines for VCT
* Training
* Supervision/coordination
*_Strengthening of personnel              __    _      -
Activities             1.    Develop and disseminate documents on norms and guidelines
2.    Finalize, develop and disseminate the counseling guide
3.    Make population aware of VCT
4.    Organize VCT training workshops
5.    Set up and equip VCT centers in the ten (10) regions
6.    Hire personnel
7.    Supply VCT centers with reagents and equipment and ensure
maintenance
8.    Promote and support PLWHA associations at regional level
9.    Regular supervision of VCT centers
10.   Coordination of VCT activities
11.   Evaluation of VCT centers
Expected results          *  Functional VCT center in each of the ten regions in Senegal
* 10% increase per year in the number of persons using VCT
75% of persons tested come back for test result
Indicators                *  Number of functioning VCT centers
* Attendance rate of VCT centers



81
Prevention of Mother-to-Child HIV Transmission
HIVprevalence rate in pregnant women is around 0.34% HIVI and 0.45% HIV2.
HIV vertical transmission rate is 30.4% for HIVI and 3.8% for HIV2. Implementation of
this program will provide coverage for 120,000 pregnant women per year between 2002
and 2006.
Objective of this program is to strengthen and decentralize the prevention of HIV mother-
to-child transmission, increase access to testing during prenatal visits and minimize
newborn infection through prophylactic ART and artificial feeding.
Principal strategies of PMTCT include setting up a set of prerequisites including
awareness and advocacy activities, training of social and health workers, identification of
appropriate sites, implementation of the PMTCT program and setting up of functional
laboratories between 2002 and 2003. Simultaneously, other activities will be carried out
such as VCT and support to pregnant women and their family.
Treatment protocol
* AZT implementation through 2000
* Zidovudine or Nevirapine: currently implemented
* Zidovudine (AZT) or Retrovir: 600 mg per day or one caplet of 300 mg twice a
day, starting the 34th or 36th week of pregnancy until beginning of labor. During
delivery, AZT 300mg orally every 3h or intravenous infusion of AZT. 2mg'kg over
1 hour, continuous IV infusion of lmg/kg until clamping and section of the
umbilical cord.
* Chlorhexidine bath for newborn and 2mg/Kg of Zidovudine syrup every 6 hours
for 6 days.
* Nevirapine (NVP) or Viramune: 200 mg orally at delivery. Administer this
treatment systematically to all pregnant women HIV infected that have been
diagnosed late in pregnancy. A single dose of 2mg/Kg of Nevirapine is given
during the first 72 hours after birth if mother has received Niverapine.
* After delivery, Anti-Retroviral Therapy is given orally if clinical, biological and
immunologic status of the patient permits and prophylactic treatment for
opportunistic infections with Cotrimoxazole will be considered according to
national recommendations.
* For newborn whose mother is HIV 1 positive, a PCR for diagnosis is performed on
the sixth day of life, after one month and after 3 months. Infant is considered
infected if two PCRs are positive.
* PLWHA associations provide social and psychological support to the mother and
the newborn through health mediators on the intervention site.
2002-2006 prospects: ISAARV will take the MTCT prevention from the pilot state to a
decentralized project to all the regions.



82
Table 9. Prevention of MTCT Projections
2002           2003          2004           2005          2006
Number of                                  20% increase
deliveries                                 per year
150,000                                                   _
Target            25% of       37,500         45,000         54,000        64,800         77,760
deliveries
Women          80% of target   30,000         36,000        43,200         51,840         62,208
provided with
counseling
Women who      40% of target    12,000        14,400         17,280        20,736        24,883
accept testing
Tests              65%          7,800         9,360          11,232        13,478         16,174
performed
Assumed           1,40%          109           131            157            189           226
HIV+                                                                                    __-
Women              80%           87            105            126           151            181
followed
90% of
Target           followed        79             94            113            136           163
partners         women
Partners who       30%           24             28            34             41            49
accept testing                                                        ____
Infected           95%           22             27            32             39            46
partners                                  ___                 ____   _                 _    _
Newborns           80%           70             84            101            121           145
alive
Brothers and      3 per         210            252            302           362            435
sisters         household
Brothers and       20%           42             50            60             72             87
sisters tested
Brothers and       30%           13             15             18            22            26
sisters infected
Children           15%           10             13             15            18            22
infected
Women under        20%           17             21            25             30             36
triple therapy
Infected
children under     15%            9             11             14            16             20
triple therapy
Brothers and       50%            6             8              9             11             13
sisters under
triple therapy
Partners        95% of the       4              5              6              8             9
under triple     infected
therapy



83
Specific activities
* Promotion at national level of anonymous VCT for women in reproductive age
* Provide pre-test counseling, testing and post-test counseling.
* Testing of 58,000 pregnant women during prenatal consultation between 2002 and
2006.
* Organize training workshop on PMTCT, counseling, communication techniques,
HIV/AIDS/STIs and harmonize training guides on MTCT.
* Identify appropriate VCT centers for pregnant women.
* Strengthen laboratory equipment and supply with reagents for testing and
pregnancy monitoring at decentralized level between 2002 and 2006.
* Ensure quality control and implementation of current protocol.
* Ensure human resources strengthening and make available trained health personnel
and provide ARV treatment.
* Put in place a multi-disciplinary team for patient management (nutritional, social
and psychological) at regional level.
* Make accessible the ART according to national criteria and provide short-course
treatment with Zidovudine or Nevirapine.
* Inform pregnant women about feeding other than breastfeeding and provide milk
substitutes and accessories for the first six months.
* Ensure regular supervision and put in place a monitoring system for the PMTCT
program.
* Medical, psychological and social management of women before and during
delivery, of newborns and children of HIV+ mothers, of brothers and sisters, and of
husband and his other wives.
* Monitoring and evaluation of the program.
* Integration of PMTCT in other national health programs.
Expected results between April 2002 and December 2006 are:
> Eighty percent of women between 15 and 49 years old are aware of the PMTCT
program
> At least one PMTCT program available and functional in the 10 regions.
- Seventy five percent of PMTCT personnel trained
> Sixty percent of targeted women accept testing.
- Eighty percent of HIV+ pregnant women are undergoing prophylaxis
> Mother to child transmission rate is decreased from 30% to 15%.
> Ninety percent of newborns whose mothers are HIV+ are taken care of.
Indicators:
* Coverage rate of PMTCT;
* Acceptance rate for testing;
* Mother to child transmission rate.



84
Management of Sexually Transmitted Infections
Objective: by improving the management of STIs, this program will contribute to maintain
HIV prevalence under 3%. It is an important FMActor in the fight against HIV/AIDS
mainly through prevention and treatment. Therefore the following conditions need to be
met:
* Integration of this program into the Reproductive Health Program
* Availability of appropriate primary health services
* Adequate combination of the two systems: primary services and specialty
services.
Table 10. Management of STIs
Level        Type of structure                   Services offered
First line  District posts and health  - IEC
centers                 - Promotion of condom use
- Syndromic management of symptomatic patients
_________                 _in the general population
2d line   - Reinforced posts and    - References of first line structures
health centers in priority  - IEC
zones                    - Promotion of condom use
- Secondary STI centers  - Syndromic management of symptomatic patients
- Syndromic management of groups at risk
- Active search of asymptomatic cases
- Syndromic monitoring of STIs
3rd line  STI centers               - References of secondary line structures
- IEC
- Promotion of condom use
- Syndromic management of symptomatic patients
- Syndromic and etiologic management of at risk
groups
- Active search of asymptomatic cases
- Supervision of secondary STIs centers
4th line   STI centers of the Institute - National reference
for Social Hygiene      - Training and supervision of of regional STI
centers
- Etiologic management of at risk groups
- Active search of asymptomatic cases
- Operational research



85
Coordination: management activities of STIs need to be coordinated at different levels and
between all partners involved:
*  At national level between different levels of the health system (reference, feed-
back)
*  Between all the partners: NGOs, United Nations Agencies, Bilateral
Cooperation Agencies and African Organizations against HIV/AIDS/STIs
*  All partners would be involved in the planning, implementation and evaluation
of STIs activities
*  Involvement of political and administrative authorities, religious leaders and
vulnerable groups
*  Involvement of the private sector
2002-2006 prospects
Table 11. Priority Targets
Priority target groups     Priority zones     Priority interventions and strategies
*  Sex workers, their      *  Roads and        *   Supply of condoms and their
clients and regular        railroads           access for priority target
partners                *  Weekly              groups
*  Bar managers               markets          *   Availability and access to STI
*  Homosexuals             *  Borders              services in all public and
*  Vulnerable and          *  Development          private sectors in the priority
mobile populatioiis        zones for           zones
*  Truck drivers              tourism and      *   Appropriate and effective
*  The military               industry            management of at least 70% of
*  Refugees                                        STIs, visiting public an private
*  Salesman                                       health centers
*  International                               *  Effectively search for active
migrants                                        STI case
*  Women and youth                             *  Develop behavior change
intervention for at risk groups
*  Develop intervention to
involve the private and
informal sectors
*  Develop advocacy
interventions
*  Develop operational research
l____________________________  programs on STIs
Expected results
> 80% of target personnel in public health structures are trained in the syndromic
approach
> 70% of persons consulting for STI in public health centers receive diagnosis
and treatment according to national recommendations



86
> 80% of persons consulting for ST1 ir puiblI: hlealth centers rcceive counseling
according to national recommendations
> 80% of district health centers perform syphilis tests in pregnant women
3; 75% of recommended drugs for STIs arc available in health centers
> 80% of public health centers have adequate supply of condoms.
Indicators
- Percentage of personnel trained in the health centers
- Prevention WHO indicators 6 and 7
- Number of weeks of out of stock
- Consultation rate for STIs
- Testing rate for syphilis in pregnant women
Management of Tuberculosis and Opportunistic Infection
Tuberculosis is the most common opportunistic infection among people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). Approximately 40% of HIV-infected individuals seeking health
care in Dakar are infected with tuberculosis. There. is clearly a co-epidemic of TB and
HIV/AIDS. However, the TB and HIV/AIDS programmes have - until now - not
collaborated systematically to address this dual epidemic.
The national tuberculosis control programme (PNT) adopted the WHO recommended
strategy for the detection and treatment of TB cases, namely DOTS (directly observed
treatment short-course) and has made DOTS available throughout the country. Despite
these efforts, only approximately half of all estimated TB cases are detected by the public
health system. Among those detected, only half are successfully treated.
Improving the accessibility of care of PLWHA means that among other interventions,
access to effective TB control must be increased. The PNT is working in collaboration
with technical partners to systematically strengthen routine TIB control within the primary
health care system. The aims of the PNT are to: a) Detect at least 70% of infectious TB
cases; and b) Cure (i.e. successfully treat) at least 85% of the detected cases.
Complementing its overall efforts to expand accessibility to DOTS, the PNT recognizes
the particular priority that must be given to ensuring improved access and ensured TB
treatment for PLWHA. The context of the national HIV/AIDS project offers an
opportunity for strengthened collaboration between the PNT and the national HIV/AIDS
programme (PNLS) that will result in seamless care of patients that are dually infected
with HIV/AIDS and TB.
It is anticipated that this project component will: 1) increase the demand for VCT services
among a high-risk population (i.e. TB patients); and 2) strengthen access by PLWHA to
much needed medical care.
Activities that will capitalize on the synergies between the HIV/AIDS and TB programmes
include:



87
At the national level
* Joint annual planning of TB/HIV activities by the PNT and PNLS, collaboratively
*  Integrated training for laboratory technicians, including the development of cohesive
training tools and technical guidelines
*  Strengthening of the central reference laboratory for TB to address the challenges of
TB detection and treatment among PLWHA and to monitor the impact of HIV/AIDS
on overall trends in TB control; namely building the capacity for cultures, drug-
resistance surveillance, and quality control
*  Sentinel surveillance of HIV among TB patients.
At the operational level(s):
* Integrated supervision (TB, HIV, and STDs) of the laboratory network
* Systematic referral of TB patients for voluntary counseling and HIV testing (VCT)
*  Systematic referral of HIV-infected individuals from VCT centers to PNT services
* Operational research to address technical and operational constraints in increasing
access to TB services among PLWHA.
In addition to monitoring the overall progress toward achieving the stated targets for TB
control (i.e. case detection and cure rates), this project will monitor the following
indicators:
a) Percentage of individuals that test positive for HIV that are referred for TB screening;
and
b) Percentage of newly detected TB cases that are counseled and referred for VCT.



88
Annex 7
Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
A. Introduction. Response to Date
Senegal's response to HIV/AIDS was in the early phase of the epidemic and led the
Government to put in place the National AIDS Committee, the first of its kind in Africa at
that time (1986). In the nineties, Senegal was already involved in the fight against
HIViAIDS:
> Between 1992 and 1996, the Government spent almost US$20 million in AIDS
prevention programs, in addition to the monies received from international
donors;
> In 1997, the Ministry of Health introduced the triple cocktail therapy. The cost
of this therapy is about 600,000 CFAF (US$ 1,000) per month; the national
program, however, negotiated a monthly price of 362,000 CFAF (US$603);
- From the start, the involvement of civil society and stakeholders has been and
still is one of the most important on the continent: NGOs, women's groups
(over 300 in Senegal), youth associations and municipalities associations;
> During the implementation of the HIV/AIDS program, special accent is put on
counseling and training;
> Support for the government initiative is provided by a large number of bi- and
multilateral organizations working on HIV/AIDS.
1. Design and management of the National HIVWAIDS Program (PNLS):
The AIDS Committee, put in place on October 23, 1986, prepared and latnched the
National HIV/AIDS Program. This Committee is pluri-disciplinary and multisectoral and
has representations at regional and departmental levels. It is in charge of design,
coordination and supervision of HIV/AIDS-related activities.
2. Implementation of PNLS strategy:
a) Prevention
Early prevention is carried out through IEC, Participatory Approach for Behavioral
Change and BCC, targeting all social groups in general and high risk groups in
particular, through a variety of organizations and activities such as:
> Women organizations and NGOs
> Youth organizations
> Education in Schools
> NGOs involved specifically in STIs treatment and prevention



89
> Organizations involved in HIV/AIDS prevention in the military
> Traditional healers in collaboration with modem health care providers
> Religious leaders through the Religious Alliance Against HIV/AIDS
) Other Ministries and local authorities.
* Prevention of HIV blood transmission started in 1986 through blood screening for
HIV, HBV and syphilis. The National Center for Blood Transfusion (NCBT)
insures supervision, quality control and supply of reagents to blood banks at
regional level. New blood banks are scheduled to open at district level and in-
depth screening (for HCV for example) is planned by the NCBT with the support
of its international partners.
*  Prevention and treatment of STIs started in 1978, and is currently part of the
HIV/AIDS National Committee. It is implemented through:
> Primary health care services, using WHO norms and recommendations;
* Syphilis screening as part of prenatal visits;
* Syphilis screening and management among high risk group such as sex
workers;
* Laboratory services that ensure quality control according to well-defined
norms and protocols, ensure training of personnel and ensure regular
availability of reagents.
* Prevention of mother to child transmission (PPMTCT): in July 2000. ISAARV
launched
PMTCT as one of its components and introduced voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT) during prenatal visits. The initiative offers a short course Anti-Retroviral
Therapy (AZT or Nevirapine) for HIV positive women and newborns.
b) Treatment
In 1998, and to strengthen the HIV/AIDS preventive measures, the government took the
decision to make Anti-Retroviral Therapy available through ISAARV. ISAARV is getting
a good start owing to the following factors:
* Government commitment to extend the funding for ISAARV;
* Price reduction of anti HIV/AIDS drugs allowing treatment of a greater number of
patients,
* Extension of ISAARV program to the children, the PMTCT and the accidentally
exposed to contaminated blood (AEB);
* Introduction of Voluntary testing and counseling and case management of HIV
positive cases in the general population



90
c) Epidemiological monitoring
In 1989, and within the framework of the National Strategic Response to HIV, the National
HIV/AIDS Program (PNLS) put in place limited pilot projects for monitoring. A decade
later, analysis of the results led to a strengthened monitoring system that meets WHO and
UNAIDS recommended setup.
d) Research
In order to streamline its strategy, the PNLS developed successful collaborative research
arrangements in clinical, biological and behavioral sciences. Priority research themes are
mainly screening, vaccines, efficacy, tolerance and resistance to therapy, prevention,
economic impact of treatment and monitoring. The objective of research projects is also to
disseminate best practices to other countries in the region.
B. Strategic Plan 2002 - 2006
1. Purpose
The goal of the Senegalese Government is to capitalize, through the Strategic Plan 2002-
2006, the gains made so far against HIV/AIDS, to keep HIV/AIDS prevalence below 3
percent, to improve the quality of life of PLWHA and to mitigate the social and economic
impact of HIV.
2. Components of the Strategic Plan
. Continued commitment of Head of State, Government, political and
religious leaders, and communities, to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic
through a multisectoral approach at all levels while reinforcing the
leadership role of the MOH.
* . Decentralization of activities, reinforcement of partnerships and stronger
involvement of all strata of the community.
*  More emphasis on prevention, VCT, treatment, and care for PLWHA,
according to eligibility requirements.
* . Identification of mechanisms for channeling resources efficiently.
3. General objectives
* Reduce HIV incidence
* . Insure clinical and psychological management and support of all persons
infected or affected by HIV/AIDS.



91
4. Strategic objectives
The Government has decided, through the 2002-2006 Strategic Plan, to intensify its
activities at all levels and secure the necessary financial and human resources for the
prevention, detection, treatment and follow-up of HIV/AIDS with particular emphasis on
M&E. Hence, the multisectoral approach of the Plan aims at:
a) HIV/AIDS prevention: (i) Need for more IEC and BCC interventions targeting the
general population and high risk groups, and better offer of VCT; (ii) Safer and more
efficient handling of blood, blood products and medical waste; and (iii) Enhancement of
screening and prevention of STIs.
b) HIV/AIDS treatment, social and psychological support: (i) Strengthening of ISAARV;
(ii) Better access to Ols treatment and follow-up; and (iii) Social and psychological support
for PLWHA.
c) Capacity strengthening through epidemiological M&E and research activities.
d) Improvement in coordination, advocacy and management.
C. Instituitional franmework
To be effective against the HIV epidemic, all sectors of the Senegalese public sector and
civil society need to be involved in a multisectoral response to HIV/AIDS. To this end, a
multisectoral and operational institutional framework will include:
*  A National AIDS Commission (CNLS), chaired by the Prime Minister
* National Executive Secretariat (NES)
*  Regional Committee on HIV/AIDS
*  Departmental Committee on HIV/AIDS
* Financial Management Agent for financial management of the Strategic Plan
(FMA)
The constitution and responsibilities of these structures and their relationships with other
partners is discussed in more detail in Annex 2 of Senegal PAD and will be set out in the
Project Implementation Plan.



92
Ins;tibitional Frampwork Of the Muititaectoral Plan
National Commission                 President:Prime Minister
for HIV/AIDS                     Secretary: MOH
Ministry of
Finance                        National Executive
Secretariat for HIV/AIDS
Fduciary Agency
Technic,         Civil Society
trin es  MO           l(national level)
\i   Action                              C      Society
[  Regional  1                    <     -   t~               '~'~'-Pa(regional level)
Structures        ---------
_   s r   ,.-                                      >"28     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Civil Society
Community        A-CvlS                                                                 t
Structures                          Target                                (community level)
Operations
NGOs, Commtnity Organizations, Women Associations, Firms, PLWA associations....



93
D. Project Implementation
The multisectoral plan will be implemented through a series of HIV/AIDS action plans
presented by line ministries and other public sector agencies as well as projects proposed
by a large number of civil society organizations (NGOs, women's groups, associations,
private enterprises and community-based organizations).
Civil Society organizations will submit project proposals to the financial management
agency at the national or regional level according to the amount and geographic coverage
involved. The FMA will analyse the proposals according to the manual of procedures and
submit a synthesis report to the monthly selection committees chaired by the NES or
Regional AIDS Committee as appropriate. The NES will assure the technical quality of the
projects and their fit within the National Strategic Plan. Once approved, the FMA will
contract the relevant civil society organization under delegated authority of the NES and
ensure the collection of reports and monitoring of the financial aspects of the activities.
Where necessary the FMA will also provided capacity building support in the area of
financial and management skills. Implementatioii procedures for the civil society
component are explained further in Annex 2 and will be detailed in the Manual of
Procedures.
Civil society organizations will also receive capacity building support for technical aspects
and in the development of proposals from other sources. Within six months of project
effectiveness, the NES and its regional counterparts must present a capacity-building plan
to be implemented by the end of the first year (possibly through contracting out). The NES,
regional and departmental counterparts as well as Ministry Focal points will also directly
provide capacity building support for civil society organizations within their purview.
National NGOs with reputed capacity building programs will also be encouraged to apply
for funding from the program under component one to support smaller NGOs, CBOs and
other elements of the public sector and civil society in developing and implementing
projects in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The Public Sector will be targeted through a variety of Ministries and parastatals that
include the MOH, the Ministry for Women, the Ministry for Youth, etc. These Ministries
develop strategic plans and budgets that will provide the necessary funding to target
beneficiaries and undertake the management and the monitoring of their activities. The
focal points established in the Ministries will undertake the responsibility for the
execution, in a timely manner, of all activities defined in the logical framework. They will
inform the National Executive Secretariat during the regular monthly meetings. They will
also ensure participation and coordination in the regional and departmental activities of
their sector.
The National Executive Secretariat will provide to MOH, every quarter, a report on the
fight against HIV/AIDS. During the biannual meetings between the CNLS, headed by the
Prime Minister, and the MOH, a situation analysis and progress made help identify
weaknesses and streamline the activities.



94
E. Management
Technical management of the 2002-2006 National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS will be
under the responsibility of the National Executive Secretariat (NES). Core members of the
SEN will be in charge of the technical coordination of program monitoring and evaluation
while financial management and program management monitoring and evaluation will be
contracted out.
Financial management will be contracted out to a fiduciary agency selected on a
competitive basis.  This agency will insure the most rapid, flexible and efficient
mobilization of resources to the beneficiaries of the project. The agency will be subject to
auditing and will provide a semi-annual and annual assessment of the financial
management to all donors.
A financial management consultant will prepare a financial and implementation Manual of
Procedures, which will clearly define the relationship between the fiduciary agency and the
others partners of the HIV Program. Disbursements to all applicants from civil society and
:he private sector as well as government ministries, to implement their sector plans, will be
processed according to the Manual of Procedures.
F. Monitoring and evaluation of the Strategic Plan
Monitoring and evaluation of the technical activities under the Nationial Strategic Plan are
an important component of the project and will be under Lhe responsibility of the NES and
its decentralized structures. Annual meetings between all partners will assess the situation
and streamline the activities. A mid-term evaluation in 2004 and a final evaluation in 2006
will use key indicators from which:
* HIV prevalence below 3% in the general population
* Six thousand PLWA will benefit from ISAARV at national level
*  Regular availability of statistical data on HIV/AIDS at national level
* Number of research projects accomplished compared to number projected
* Capacity strengthening.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements for the Civil Society Component
Details of the institutional framework (the constitution and mandate of each structure) as
well as detailed procedures for implementation will be set out in the operational manual. A
brief outline is provided below.
A. Institutional Framework
The Government is establishing an institutional framework that reflects the multisectoral
nature of the national HIV/AIDS program as set out in the National Strategic Plan (NSP).
The NSP emphasizes the need for a partnership between all sectors and civil society to
ensure a concerted and decentralized response to HIV/AIDS. "Civil Society" includes



95
NGOs, CBOs, Associations, Womens' Groups, Labor Unions, private enterprises and
associations and other legally constituted entities. "Sectors" refers to all the key ministries
that will ensure a multisectoral response to HIV/AIDS.
1. The NAC
The members and mandate of the NAC are established by decree. The Prime Minister will
act as President of the NAC. The NAC's primary roles are:
(i) awareness creation and coordination of the national policy in the fight against
HIV/AIDS in accordance with the NSP
(ii) mobilization of the necessary financial, human and physical resources to implement
the NSP
(iii) ensuring the establishment of the relevant executing structures to ensure
implementation
(iv) improving the legal and ethical dimensions of the fight against HIV/AIDS
(v ) coordination with the UNAIDS Thematic Group and all other development partners
2. The NES
The NES has a permanent staff consisting of an Executive Secretary, a Financial and
Administrative Assistant and 3 Program Coordinators. The extenided NES will ensure a
regular interface with the focal points of the ministries, representatives of civil society and
local communities and representatives of vulnerable groups. The primary roles of the NES
are:
(i) Prepare minutes for the meetings of the NAC and ensure their implementation
(ii) Represent the NAC in meetings with other development partners as necessary and
organize occasional meetings to bring together all relevant partners in the program
(iii) Ensure the provision of necessary technical assistance to the partners involved in the
fight against HIV/AIDS
(iv) Ensure the coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the program
(v) Present the annual reports and budgets
(vi) Ensure the interface with the fiduciary agency including presiding over the monthly
meetings of the national selection committee for national projects presented for financing
by civil society organizations.
(vii) Ensure effective communication to civil society regarding the modalities and
mechanisms for their participation in the execution of the NSP
3. The RACs
The NES will ensure the "redynamisation" of the regional HIV/AIDS committees that
consist of members of civil society and the public sector involved in the fight against
HIV/AIDS at a regional level. The Committees will be presided over by a coordinator
chosen by the members and will have the following roles:



96
(i) Ensure awareness of the NSP at a regional level among sectors, communities and civil
society organizations
(ii) Ensure the availability of technical support necessary for the development of action
plans by regional organizations
(iii) Ensure the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of activities at a regional level by
the sectors and civil society organizations and the preparation of summary reports of these
activities to the NES and fiduciary agency
(iv) Ensure the interface with the fiduciary agency including presiding over the regional
selection committees for regional projects presented for financing by civil society
organizations
4. The DACs
The NES will ensure the creation or "redynamisation" of departmental committees in the
fight against HIV/AIDS. These committees will consist of members of civil society and the
public sector as well as local communities involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS at a
departmental level. The Committees will be presided over by a coordinator chosen by the
members and will have the following roles:
(i) Ensure awareness of the NSP at a departmental and community level and among
community organizations;
(ii) Work with the RAC to ensure the availability of technical support necessary for the
development of action plans by community organizations:
(iii) Ensure the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of activities at a community level
by the sectors and civil society organizations and the preparation of summary reports of
these activities to the NES and fiduciary agency;
(iv) Ensure the interface with the fiduciary agency including participating in the regional
selection committees where departmental projects are being considered for financing.
5. The Fiduciary Agency
A fiduciary agency with recognized expertise in the area of financial management will be
contracted to ensure the following roles (at a national and regional level):
(i) Preparation of the financial management and administrative instruments for the project,
including the manual of financial, administrative and accounting procedures as well as a
management information system for the project.
(ii) Provision of capacity building support in the areas of financial and project management
to the NES as well as the executing agencies in the public and private sector.
(iii) Collection and analysis of applications for financing by civil society organizations in
accordance with the criteria (including a negative list) set out in the "cahier de charge". A
synthesis report will be presented to the Selection Committees for approval and thereafter
the Agency will contract successful applicants under delegated authority from the NES.
(iv) Disbursement of funds for the project



97
(v) Collection, monitoring, evaluation and presentation of consolidated reports on the
financial management of sector and civil society projects financed under the project to the
NES
B. Implementation Arrangements
Division of Funds
Project funds for components two and three will be equally split between the public sector
and civil society. Within the Civil Society organizations, NGOs have been classified
according to experience and capacity and this classification will act as a guide to eligibility
under the project for different levels of financing. The maximum amount was set at
$200,000 per applicant for national projects (more than one region).
Approval and Financing Mechanisms - Civil Society Component
Each civil society organization will submit an action plan to the financial management
agency at the national or regional level according to the level of financing propcsed and
the geographic coverage of the project:
* If the project covers more than one region and its budget is over $30,000, the
application must be sent to the national office of the fiduciary agency with a copy
sent tc the NES
* If the project covers one region or many departments in one region and its budget is
less than $30,000, the application must be sent to the regional office of the financial
management agency with a copy sent to the RAC
* If the project covers one department or a number of rural communities in one
region and its budget is less than $10,000, the application must be sent to the
regional office of the financial management agency with a copy sent to the DAC
The projects will be analyzed by the fiduciary agency according to the eligibility criteria
set out in the cahier de charge and manual of procedures (e.g. legal status, bank account,
management ability and experience). The fiduciary agency will organize regular meetings
of the selection committees to be presided over by the NES or RAC according to the
project's scope and scale.
The selection committees (see cahier de charge) will receive a synthesis report from the
fiduciary agency and approve or reject the proposals according to criteria set out in the
manual of procedures. The NES, RAC and DAC committees will also ensure the proposals
fit within the scope of the NSP and ensure the technical quality of the proposals.
The fiduciary agency will establish contracts with the implementing agencies under
delegated authority from the NES and disburse according to procedures in the manual of
procedures. It will also ensure the collection and analysis of project financial reports for
submission to the NES. All procedures will have detailed timeframes to be specified in the
manual of procedures.



98
C. Capacity Building Component
The NES will work with the RACs and DACs to analyze the technical assistance
requirements of civil society organizations to improve their capacity to undertake effective
projects in the fight against HIV/AIDS. It will develop a Capacity Building Plan that must
be completed within the first six months of the project and implemented within the first
year of the project. The implementation of the plan can take three possible forms:
(i) The NES, RACs, DACs and sector ministries will provide services to strengthen the
technical capacity of the civil society organizations in the various fields of intervention in
the fight against HIV/AIDS and assist them in developing plans of action as necessary;
(ii) The fiduciary agency will provide capacity building support to civil society
organizations in financial and management skills (budgeting and reporting);
(iii) National NGOs and other organizations will be able to submit requests for financing
projects to provide capacity building services to other civil society organizations.



99
Annex 8:
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised September
1997), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
The procurement of the program will be handled at three levels which are:
(a) the service delivery arms of Government at the national, regional, zonal, and local government
levels which are supported by the fiduciary agency (with decentralized structures);
(b) Community Based Organizations, NGOs, and private sector organizations.
PNA (Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement) which is a financially autonomous drug distributor
unit. This structure, located iin Dakar, has some decentralized shops in the main towns (Kaolack, Saint
Louis, Ziguinchor, Tambacounda and Dakar).
1) Since the fiduciary agency has not yet been selected, it was not possible to assess its capacities. As
soon as the agency's selection procedures are finalized, its capacity to handle procurement activities in
compliance with World Bank procedures will be assessed within the context of IDA's review of the
evaluation of proposed offers.
The core staff at this agency will include a procurement specialist. He/she should be familiar with
World Bank procurement procedures and will work closely with each of the regional implementing
agencies under the Project, to ensure efficient and timely project execution through compliance with
the procurement schedule agreed upon with the Bank. The procurement specialist will: (a) prepare
and update the procurement plan for the Project; (b) monitor the progress of procurement; and assist
the implementing agencies in: (i) the preparation of bidding documents and advertisements for goods
and works contracts and requests for proposals for consulting assignments; and (ii) bid opening and
evaluation. The procurement specialist will also advise the Implementing Agencies on procedural
matters.
2) Assessment of the capacity of NGOs, private sector interventions in the projects and the CBOs is
not needed since the project team will ensure that Bank procedures are observed by these entities,
which use mainly national or international shopping methods.
3) The PNA is an independent and autonomous structure purchasing drugs and some small medical
equipment for public hospitals, small health centers and all military and police health centers. This
structure has a transparent procurement system since all goods are acquired through international
competitive process and contracts may be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid.



100
Procurement Plan
The draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared for the Project and will be finalized and
published in Development Business after negotiations. The GPN will be updated annually and should
show all outstanding ICB for goods contracts mainly, and international consulting assignments. A
procurement plan will be prepared by the Borrower prior to credit effectiveness and will include
relevant information on all goods, works and services contracts under the Project as well as the timing
of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every six
months and submitted to IDA. The procurement specialist will monitor the progress of procurement
and implementation of each contract under the Project and ensure effective and timely project
execution.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are
shown in Table B.
Given the urgency of the program, and to facilitate speedy procurement of items required during the
first 12 months, some of the critical requirements could be obtained, on a fast track basis using
(i) appropriate procurement methods, directly from United Nations agencies (UNFPA, WHO);
(ii) immediate requirements of vehicles and office equipment specifically for the program could be
acquired from IAPSO or by local shopping (preferably ex-bonded warehouses on a competitive basis)
or international shopping; and (iii) furniture for coordinating offices could be procured through local
shopping. In addition, where feasible, procurement agents could be used, including UNFPA, for
procurement and distribution of condoms, and possibly other United Nations agencies, for procurement
and distribution of drugs.
All procurement actions will follow standard IDA procurement Guidelines and annual General
Procurement Notices (GPN) will be prepared for the project and publish in United Nations
Development Business.
Requirements of large ticket items such as medical supplies and vehicles will be consolidated and
preparation of procurement documents will be carried out by the fiduciary agency. The Directorate
General of Administration and Equipment (DAGE) of the Ministry of Health and Prevention will
procure using the ICB method. Thus, to the extent possible, procurement will be bulked where feasible
into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more. Delivery of these goods to the end users will
either be done directly by the suppliers or through separate distribution contracts that will ensure
timely delivery of the goods. It will be necessary to ensure that adequate procurement capacity is
available at the center to organize the procurement and distribution.
The distribution to the final users could be done through the PRAs (decentralized structures of
the PNA where available) or NGOs
In order to facilitate the procurement process, the thresholds will be established as stated below for
essentially goods:
(a) ICB Equal or superior to US$100,000 equivalent for drugs;
(b) NCB Less than US$100,000 up to a total amount of US$ 2,000,000;
(c) National or international shopping US$30,000 up to a total amount of US$ 2,000,000;



101
(d) Drugs and medical equipments purchased  from PNA will follow sole source system under
IDA prior review.
With regard to civil works, the procurement procedures will be fixed as follows:
(a) NCB Less than US$100,000 up to a total amount of US$300,000;
(b) Procurement of small works US$50,000 up to a total amount of US$800,000.
Consulting Services
Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance, promotion of the project
activities and support of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). As a rule, consultant services would be procured through
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consultancy assignments estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more would be advertised in a national newspaper and in
Development Business (UNDB). In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international
newspaper or a technical magazine seeking "expressions of interest". All consulting assignments in
the range of US$100,000 to US$200,000 would be procured through QCBS. In the case of
assignments estimated at US$100,000 or less, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the
short]ist may be made up entirely of national consultants provided that at least three qualified national
firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded
from consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 50,000 may
be contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job
or who have been identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost Selection procedures.
Operating Costs:
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, travel allowance of
project staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil service. The annual audit will also be
financed under the Project.
Prior review thresholds
All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more would be subject to IDA review
of bidding documents including draft contracts and technical specifications prior to inviting bids and
IDA review of bid evaluation prior to contract award.
The TORs for all consulting assignments irrespective of value would be subject to IDA prior review.
For consultancy contracts with firms, an estimated value of US$ 00,000 or more, and US$ 50,000 or
more in the case of individuals, the draft Request for Proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants
must be cleared by IDA prior to inviting proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of
technical proposals must be cleared with IDA before financial proposals of the qualifying firms are
opened.
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$ 100,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.



102
With respect to each contract for the employment of the consulting firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US $100,000 or more and each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
Post review
Contracts which are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and would be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the guidelines.



103
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB    Procurement    Method I  N.B.F. Total Cost
NCB         Other2
1. Works                     0.00      0.00        0.92      0.00     0.92
(0.00)    (0.00)       (0.74)   (0.00)   (0.74)
2. Goods
a) Drugs & Biomed. Equipment  1.17     0.00        0.00      0.00     1.17
(1.17)    (0.00)       (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.17)
2b)Equipment (other)
0.00       1.41        0.03     0.00      1.41
(0.00)    (1.12)       (0.02)   (0.00)   (1.15)
3. Services                  0.00      0.00        4.96      0.00     4.96
____________________________  (0.00)  (0.00)       (4.96)   (0.00)   (4.96)
4. Operational               0.00      0.00        1.77      0.00     1.77
(0.00)    (0.00)      (1.41)    (0.00)   (1.41)
5. Grants                    0.00      0.00        13.88     0.00   -13.88
(0.00)    (0.00)      (12.50)   (0.00)  (12 50)
6. Unallocated               0.52      0.10        1.46      0.00     2.08
_________     _         _(0.52)      (0.10)       (1.46)   (0.00)   (2.08)
Total                     7.69      1.51        23.01     0.00     32.22
___  _____      ___  (7.69)  _ (1.23)      (21.08)   (0.00)_  (30.00)
I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs
include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technicaJ assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



104
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category      Contract Value         Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Method              Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                               (US$ millions)
1. Works                   100 or more               ICB                     0
Less than 100             NCB                      0
Less than 50    I Procurement of small             0
works
2. Goods                    100 or more               [CB                   7.0
30 -100,                 NCB                    0.9
<30,                  IS/NS
3.Services/Consultants     200, or more       QCBS (Int'i Advert.)           1.2
100, - 200          QCBS (Shortlist)              0
50, - 100        QCBS (Nat'l Advert.)           0.2
<50,                   CQ                       0
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every month (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The credit's closing date will be six
months after the project completion date. Disbursement of the IDA credit will be made available for
civil works, goods, consultant services, training and operating expenses (including project audit
expenditures) eligible for IDA financing. While operating under traditional disbursement procedures
all disbursements will be fully documented at the time of submission of withdrawal applications,
except for expenditures made against statement of expenditures (SOEs). Once the project's financial
management is deemed satisfactory enough to fulfill all the requirements for disbursements on the
basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), the project will have the option to switch to PMR-based
disbursements.



105
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in             Financing Percentage
US$million
Civil Works                             0.74                     80%
Equipment                                1.15                    80%
Drugs and bio-medical equipment         7.17                     100%
Consultant Services                     4.96                     100%
Grants                                 12.50                     90%
Operations                              1.41                     80%
Unallocated                        _    2.08                     100%
Total Project Costs                    30.00
Total                                  30.00        _        ___
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the
Special Account is reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement
applications will be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than US$ 200,000 for works;
(b) US$ 100,000 for goods and consi4lting firms; (c) US $50,000 for individual consultants. SOE
documentation will be retained at each implementing agency for review by Bank staff and annual
audits.
Special account:
a) Special Account tmder Traditional I?isbursement Procedures
To facilitate disbursements, a special account will be opened at a commercial bank for IDA's share of
eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account will amount to CFMAF 1,400 million.
The authorized allocation shall be limited initially to 50% of the respective authorized amounts until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals (under each agency's eligible categories) from the Credit account
plus the total amount of all outstanding commitments entered into by the Association shall equal or
exceed the equivalent of US$5,000,000. Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as
necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
b) Special Account for Withdrawals Made on the Basis of PMRs
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an
amount equal to the lesser of: a) the amount so requested; and b) the amount which the Association has
determined, based on the PMR accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to
finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided,
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be
remaining in the special accounts, shall not exceed the amount of CFAF 2,100 million.



106
Financial Management:
Country Issues
No CFAA has been conducted for Senegal (scheduled for early FY03). The major findings of the
CPFA conducted in 1997 do not raise any specific country risk, except for the following:
*  a very serious staffing problem in the public sector accounting services: no recruitment since
1991 at the time of the CPFA report, dramatic drop in the quality of staff;
*  delay and irregularity in the audit of public entities' annual accounts because of understaffing
of the Public Sector Auditing bodies.
The CFPA also made a recommendation to discuss with the Treasury Department the possible need
to improve the latter's capacity, particularly to enable it cope with the decentralization of its functions.
The recommendation has become of utmost importance now that most of the World Bank-supported
projects have a decentralized approach. Yet the Government does not have a clear policy with regard
to its budgetary and fiscal systems to accompany the decentralized approach of these projects.
The situation described above is unlikely to have any major impact on this project despite the
highly decentralized approach of its implementation as the project will not be implemented through the
public sector accounting channel at the regional level. Experience with Bank-financed projects in
Senegal generally shows weaknesses in the financial management supervision/oversight by the
Ministry of Finance and the Technical Ministries in charge. As a result, financial management issues
raised in the audit reports or the supervision missions' aide-memoires are not always given due
consideration. Audit reports' compliance is not given due attention and reports are received late
despite some improvement during the last three years.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Main weaknesses are related to the FMAct that the implementing entities at the coordination
level are not yet operational as detailed financial management procedures have not yet been developed.
This constraint is being addressed within the context of the outsourcing of the financial management.
A Financial Management Agent is in the process of being selected and is expected to put in place a
sound financial management system and the monitoring and evaluation of program management. This
will ensure better compliance with World Bank procedures and fulfillment of the project's needs.
Implementing Entity
Overall coordinating responsibility for the PNLS will be undertaken by the National
HIVWAIDS Council (CNLS). The CNLS will execute its mandate through a National Executive
Secretariat (NES) which will have responsibility for overall coordination of the PNLS. The NES will
have a permanent core of executive staff including an Executive Secretary, an Administrative and
Financial Officer, and three Program Coordinators.
The Financial Management Agent will be required to develop a fully integrated financial and
accounting system using appropriate software, as well as a detailed manual of financial procedures and
chart of accounts including the format, content and periodicity of the various financial statements to be
produced. The Financial Management Agent will also be required to set up an appropriate financial
and accounting system at regional level.



107
Funds Flow
The project will not use the existing government system because the financial management will be
under the responsibility of a Financial Management Agent.
The credit proceeds will be disbursed to a special account to be managed by the Financial Management
Agent. Funds deposited in the special account will be used to finance eligible expenditures for
activities implemented by the NES, government agencies (mainly line ministries). Payments will be
made directly by the Financial Management Agent for goods and services procured at the national
coordination level, including drugs procured by the PNA (Pharmacie Nationale d 'Approvisionnement)
to finance government agencies' action plans and sub-projects submitted by civil society organizations.
Transfer of funds to government agencies, civil society organizations (NGOS, CBOs and private sector
organizations) and mechanisms for tranche releases and the scaling up of successful projects will be
made by the Financial Management Agent in accordance with eligibility standards and implementation
procedures as will be described in the project's operations manual. For each category of applicants,
there will be clear eligibility criteria, thresholds as well as requirements for contributions, depending
on size, experience and sector.
The counterpart funds will be deposited in a project account also managed by the Financial
Management Agent. The flow of counterpart funds is similar to that described above except for the
direct payment method which is not applicable.
To meet the needs of a decentralized implementation approach associated with the community-demand
driven aspects of the projects, sub-accounts are expected to be opened and managed by the Financial
Management Agent at the regional level, except for Dakar. Therefore, there would be 9 regional sub-
accounts.
Staffing
The Financial Management Agent will provide its own staff with the right mix of numbers and
qualifications. The Financial Management Agent is not in place, and consequently its staffing cannot
be evaluated. However, the terms of reference for its selection were reviewed and approved by the
Bank's appraisal team and they are very specific on the staffing level required, particularly in terms of
qualifications. The final selection of the Financial Management Agent will be approved by the Bank
to ensure that the level of staffing is appropriate.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project will not use the Government's existing accounting system as already mentioned. The
project's financial management system will be installed by the Financial Management Agent as part of
its terms of reference. The Financial Management Agent has not been selected, hence the accounting
policies and procedures are not in place. For this reason, the risk associated with the accounting
policies and procedures was rated "substantial". However, the terms of reference for the selection of
the Financial Management Agent were agreed upon at appraisal, and they require the preparation of the
project's operations manual including accounting policies and procedures. Submission of this manual
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
InternalAudit



108
For the same reasons described above, there is no  existing  internal audit procedures.  The
responsibility of the internal audit function is not clearly defined. It is expected that internal control
mechanisms will be built in the entity's operations manual which is included in the Action Plan.
External Audit
The situation of compliance by World Bank projects portfolio in Senegal indicate four overdue audit
reports as presented below as at November 22, 2001:
* Human Resource Development Project II (Credit 2473-SE): The audit report of FEMEN for
the year 1999 is 20 months late;
* Higher Education I (Credit 2872-SE): The 2000 audit report is 5 months late.
The project's account will be subject to annual external audit by a reputable auditing firm based on
terms of reference corresponding to the project's scope. These terns of reference will cover the audit
of funds transferred to civil society organizations to ensure that these funds are used appropriately.
The selection of the auditor is a condition of effectiveness.
Reporting and Monitoring
The Financial Management Agent will have to prepare quarterly FMR during project implementation.
The reporting formnat and procedures will have to be documented in the operations manual. This will
be done as part of the financial management strengthening action plan.
The quarterly financial management reports and annual financial reports will cover all activities
financed under the project regardless the source of funding. I he quarterly reports will cover financial
management, procurement and physical progress monitoring. The annual project financial statements
will be subject to external audit as described above.
Information Systems
The information system for the project, which is not yet in place, will have to be installed by the
Financial Management Agent. Terms of reference for the selection of the Financial Management
Agent that make provisions for the installation of the information system, were already agreed upon at
appraisal. They specify that the financial management system should be capable of producing the
necessary financial management reports described in the reporting and monitoring section. The
completion of this assignment is set as a condition of credit effectiveness.



109
Action Plan agreed with borrower
Action                       Tasks              Target Completion
Date
1. Selection of the project's  Preparation of the terms of  Done
Financial Management     reference and the request for
Agent and installation of the proposals package for the selection
financial management     of a consultant
system                   World Bank's non-objection      November 26, 2001
Requests for proposal sent out  November 28, 2001
Proposals received              December 28, 2001
Technical evaluation completed and  January 15, 2002
approved by IDA
Financial evaluation completed and  January 22, 2002
contract awarded and approved by
IDA
Submission of draft operations  February 22, 2002
manual
Submission of final operations  March 15, 2002
manual report                   (Effectiveness
____              __Condition)
Conmputerized financial         March 15, 2002
management system installed and  (Effectiveness
tested satisfactorily (charts of  Condition)
accounts, transactions posting,
reports format) and staff trained
2. Selection of an auditor  Preparation of the terms of  December 10, 2001
reference and request fo, proposals
package for the selection of the
auditor
World Bank's non-objection      December 17, 2001
Requests for proposal sent out  December 22, 2001
Proposals received              January 22, 2002
Technical evaluation completed and  February 2, 2002
approved by IDA
Financial evaluation completed and  February 15, 2002
contract awarded and approved by  (Effectiveness
IDA                             Condition)
In addition to the actions above, the project will prepare and submit to IDA quarterly FMR throughout
the life of the project. During an interim period of 18 months starting from the date of effectiveness,
these quarterly reports will be reviewed and improved so as to be reliable enough for PMR-based
disbursement by the end of the interim period.



110
Supervision plan
The risk of the project as far as financial management is concerned is rated substantial. This is due to
the number of actors involved in the management of project resources. The mitigating factor is the
recruitment of a Financial Management Agent responsible for the overall financial management. This
means that the Financial Management Agent has a major responsibility. As a result, the performance
of the Financial Management Agent is really a key factor to ensuring that World Bank fiduciary
requirements are complied with. Bank supervision should concentrate during the early phase of
project implementation, on ensuring that the Financial Management Agent is performing as expected.
The supervision of the Financial Management Agent should focus on: i) mix of numbers and
qualifications of the Financial Management Agent staff working on the project, ii) quality and
timeliness of reports produced, iii) the processing speed of administrative and financial matters,
particularly payments processing. Bank supervision should also include civil society organizations and
government agencies to evaluate how these entities manage and account for project resources.
Given the above, the project requires intensive financial management supervision which should be
budgeted for. Supervision missions should be done at least every six months with the first mission
occurring within three months after credit effectiveness. But prior to that, a clear understanding must
be reached with the Financial Management Agent on its work plan and approach.
The quality of the audit also is to be monitored closely to ensure that it covers all relevant aspects and
provide enough confidence as regards the appropriate use of funds by recipients (civil society
organizations and governmental agencies).
A reassessment of the project's financial management capacity should be planned 18 months after the
credit effectiveness to determine whether the project is ready for PMR-based disbursement.



Annex 9
Monitoring & Evaluation
SENEGAL HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Introduction
The project is predicated on the assumption that urgent project preparation without extensive ex
ante technical analysis is possible, if effective M&E systems are rapidly established as a
management tool, to guide continuous project adjustments. This approach places great onus on
M&E. The project will support Senegal's existing surveillance and epidemiological research, while
assisting it to strengthen financial and project monitoring.
M&E Components
M&E comprises the following components: (i) Surveillance; (ii) Epidemiological research;
(iii) Financial monitoring; and (iv) Project monitoring.
Surveillance encompasses biological and behavioural surveillance. NES, together with the
Epidemiology Group and the Bacterial-Virological Laboratory, manages surveillance, with funding
and technical support from FHI and CDC. Biological surveillance includes HIV and syphilis
seroprevalence. HIV is determined by double Elisa (Immunocomb and Munex 1.2) and
confirmatory Western Blot. Syphilis is determnined by RPR and confirmatory TPHA. Biological
surveillance is undertaken annually among antenatal patients, STI patients, TB patients, hospital in-
patients and sex workers.
Antenatal surveillance, which is the bedrock of biological surveillance, was extended from four
sites in 1993 (Dakar, Kadack, Saint-Louis and Zinguinchor), to six sites in 1994 (including Thies
and Mbour) and eight sites in 1998 (including FMActick and Louga). In 2002, annual antenatal
HIV surveillance will be extended to 6,600 women in 11 sites in 10 regions, including a further
three regions (Diorbel, Kelda and Tamacounda). Surveillance will be conducted annually among
300 STI patients in Dakar, 2,400 TB patients in 8 regions (excluding Dioubel, Kolda and
Tambagounda), 2,400 hospital in-patients in 8 regions (excluding Dioubel, Kolda and
Tambagounda) and 2,500 sex workers (500 in Dakar, 250 each in the other 6 regions, excluding
Dioubel, Kolda and Tambagounda). The project will co-fund biological surveillance as indicated
in the budget, with FHI, CDC and other bilateral donors, who have worked closely with Senegal's
AIDS programme to establish effective training, laboratory, sampling, specimen management and
quality assurance procedures



112
Group              Sample Size                      Sites
Antenatal patients      600 x 1 I sites in 10   All 10 regions, plus 2 sites in Thies: Thies
regions = 6,600         and Mboup, which has a higher prevalence
STI patients             300                    Dakar
TB patients              300 x 8 sites          (excluding Dioubel, Kolda and
Tambagounda)
Hospital in-patients     250 x 8 sites          (excluding Dioubel, Kolda and
Tambagounda)
Sex workers              500 in Dakar, 250 x 6  (excluding Dioubel, Kolda and
other regions          Tambagounda)
Behavioral surveillance will be managed by the HIV/AIDS unit of MPOH, with technical support from
FHI and CDC, and undertaken by a competitively identified research. FHI have established
comprehensive manuals and rigorous procedures for questionnaire adaptation and translation,
interviewer training and supervision, sampling, data management and quality assurance. The project
will co-fund behavioral surveillance, in close collaboration with FHI and CDC, as indicated in the
budget. An estimated three rounds of behavioral surveillance will be conducted at 18-24 month
intervals among 3,200 sex workers in 10 regions, 10,000 in-school youth in 10 regions,
5,000 apprentices in 10 regions, 1,000 soldiers/policemen in 6 regions, 1,000 customs/border guards in
6 regions, 1,000 seasonal workers in 3 regions, 1,000 mobile workers in 5 sites, 1,000 fishermen in
Dakar and Thies and 1,000 port workers in Dakar.
Group              Sample Size                     Sites
Sex workers                  3,200        500 in Dakar, 300 in remaining 9 regions
Youth in-school              10,000       All 10 regions
Apprentices                   5,000       All 10 regions
Soldiers/policemen            1,000       6 regions
Customs/border guards         1,000       6 regions
Seasonal workers              1,000       5 sites
(Dakar, Pikine, Soacas, Daiminiadis and
Gore)
Fishermen                     1,000       2 sites (Dakar and Thies)
Port workers                 1,000        Dakar
Combined biological and behavioral surveillance will also be piloted among migrants and mobile
populations.



113
Epidemiological research will focus on four  major areas:
(i) STI prevalence, aetiology and sensitivity studies;
(ii) TB culture capacity and sensitivity studies;
(iii) Evaluation of STI/HIV diagnostic kits.
(iv) Evaluation of HIV interventions among priority groups, including sex workers, men-
having-sex-with-men, (MSM), injecting drug users (IDU) and prisoners;
(v) Molecular HIV research to characterize HIV sub-types.
Financial and project monitoring will focus on NES' contracting and coordinating capacity and the
relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public sector and civil society services. Project monitoring
will be combined with financial monitoring and outsourced to a single specialized external agency,
which will collect, verify, enter and analyze primary monitoring data from each partner. Through the
project, NES will assume a major grant-making role, supporting numerous AIDS projects nationally.
NES will develop established systems and procedures for budget transfers and grant-making,
including systems for identifying epidemiological priorities and soliciting compliant applications,
publicizing grants, developing and publicizing structured, transparent selection procedures, publicizing
recipients, monitoring programme performance of recipients and communicating achievements.
NES has already appropriated a draft M&E manual and translated it into French. It will now review,
adapt and simplify the manual to ensure it meets the project's distinctive needs.
NES Actions
NES is undertaking the following actions to effectively coordinate project monitoring:
(i) NES will clarify its coordination role and increase its capacity to coordinate, not implement,
M&E;
(ii) NES will outsource M&E to specialized government and private agencies. The project
monitoring agency will be responsible for training partners and verifying, collating, analyzing
and reporting data;
(iii) NES and stakeholders will undertake a participatory process, to prepare a nationally owned
M&E plan and manual and to build national commitment and ownership for M&E;
(iv) Each partner will agree its key targets with NES, using a simple, structured Targets Form;
(v) Each partner will report results monthly using a simple, structured Reporting Form;
(vi) Results will be verified semi-annually by the specialized monitoring agency;
(vii) The specialized monitoring agency will assess each partners' progress towards targets
semi-annually, using a simple Rating Form;
(viii) The specialized monitoring agency will collate, analyse and submit to NES summary
reports of aggregate activities semi-annually, using a simple Summary Form;
(ix) NES and key stakeholders will meet semi-annually to review monitoring reports and to
identify key lessons;
(x) NES and key stakeholders will update their operational and M&E manuals and procedures
based on lessons learned.



114
M&E Structure
NES will manage the above monitoring and evaluation components as follows.
Component                                   Contracted to
Surveillance                            Biological: NES, assisted by Epidemiology Group,
Bacterial-Virological Laboratory and research
institutions
Behavioral: NES, assisted by Epidemiology
Group, Bacterial-Virological Laboratory and
research institutions
Epidemiological research                NES assisted by Epidemiology Group,
Bacterial-Virological Laboratory and research
institutions, with some external research funding
NES, public    sector and  civil society Major accounting/consulting firm contracted
financial monitoring                    and managed by NES
NES, public sector and civil society     Same major accounting/consulting firm contracted
project monitoring                      and managed by NES
Monitoring and Evaluation Budget
The indicative M&E costs are summarized in the table below:
Component          2001             2002             2003            2004              2005
_   WB       Other     WB     Other     WB   l Other    WB      Other    WB      Other
Biological     102,000  142,000  103,000   132,000  ]05,000  130,000  107,000  42,000  109,000  To be
Surveillance    0_ 5,0002                50,0002          50,0002   _     50,0002         determined
Behavioral      55,000  80,000'  56,000  50,00'           50,000'  58,000  50,00W  59,000   To be
Surveillance            50,0002          80,0002          80,0002         80,0002         determined
Epidemiological  39,000  50,000  40,000  50,000   40,000  50,000   42,000  50,000  42,000   To be
Research                50,0002          50,0002          50,0002         50,0002         detennined
Financial
Monitoring
Project
M onitoring _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __       _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total          197,000  422,000  199,000  412,000  145,000  410,000  206,000  322,000  210,000
World Bank Total = $957,000   1      Other Total = $1,566,000  1     Grand Total = $2.523,000
Note that Financial and Project Monitoring are budgeted under contract management
'Family Health International
2Centres for Disease Control



115
Annex 10
Project Supervision Plan
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
1. The project will need intensive supervision given its fast-track preparation, the large span of
activities, its blend of public and private sector interventions, and its multi-sectoral as well as its multi-
agency nature. The project is complex and will be implemented by many entities whose capacity will
need strengthening. A budget of US$200,000 is needed to supervise the project during the first 12
months of project implementation.
2. Some of the skills required for project supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others
will be required on an ad hoc basis. It is therefore proposed to establish a Core Supervision Group,
which will emphasize financial, procurement and operational basic needs, complemented by technical
specialists, in particular those covering monitoring and evaluation and community participation. (The
combined core supervision group and technical specialists will be referred to as the Senegal HIV/AIDS
Team.)
3. A much more intensive than normal supervision program should be carried out during the first year
of the project to put in place a sound institutional base and properly begin interventions to be
undertaken by this complicated operation. The project team will need to assess--on the ground--
whether the planned monitoring systems are operationally effective or need adjustment to carry out the
necessary tasks.. Therefore, during the first year of the project, the core supervision Group will carry
out quarterly supervision missions, each of which will be for approximately two weeks. Technical
specialists, on an as needed basis, will provide support. The emphasis of the supervision missions will
be in getting the project up and running efficiently, with particular emphasis on arrangements with
communities, NGOs, and line ministries.
4. Project supervision will benefit from the Bank's health sector presence in the Resident Mission,
supported by Headquarters specialists in HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, and nutrition; the Bank's
education team, and Resident Mission procurement and financial specialists. In addition there will be
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) specialist consultant and more intensive implementation support to
troubleshoot implementation issues as they arise, at an early stage.
5. The Senegal team includes the following members: (i) Task Team Leader with experience in
HIV/AIDS operations who will be based in Dakar but provided with strong Headquarters support; (ii)
reproductive health specialist, (iii) senior implementation specialist, to provide intensive support in the
critical first half year of project's implementation; (iv) financial management specialist, to review
adherence to Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (vi) sectoral specialists on
an as needed basis, in the areas of education, gender, nutrition, maternal and child needs, and
community participation.
6. The Bank's Senegal team, in addition to its Senegalese partners, will be complemented by
representatives of Senegal's UN development community who are active in the fight against
HIV/AIDS, many of whom are members of the UNAIDS Theme Group, but also bilateral, NGO, and
private sector grOUpS. As during the preparation process, partners will be invited to participate on
supervision missions to ensure the complementarities of interventions, build strong partnerships, and
facilitate a cross-fertilization of experiences.



116
Supervision Budget FY03
Staff Allocations (BB Budget)
Staff                   Qty SW               Qty Missions
Task Team Leader (Dakar) and/or         12          *As needed from outside Dakar
designee
Reproductive Health Specialist           8                       4
Education Specialist                     4                       2
Procurement                              6                       2
Community Participation                  6                      2
Financial Management                     6                       2
Other                                    3                       2
Total                                   45                      14
Consultants (BB, Trust Funds, or Partner Support)
Qty Weeks              Qty Missions
Monitoring and Evaluation               10                       4
Community Participation                 10                       3
Procurement/Financial                   10                       3
Other                                    8  _                   2
Total                                   38                      12



117
Annex 11
Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Project Schedule                            Planned            Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    9                  4
First Bank mission (identification)           10/10/2001          10/10/2001
Appraisal mission departure                   11/19/2001          11/19/2001
Negotiations                                  11/27/2001          11/27/2001
Board date                                    01/15/2002         01/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 04/17/2002
Prepared by:
The core project preparation team include Anwar Bach-Baouab, (task team leader, lead operations
officer) Aissatou Mbaye (public health specialist at the country office) and Kate Kuper
(implementation and urban Specialist).   Other multi-sector specialists contributed to project
preparation including those listed below. Significant contributions were made by the national multi-
sector team lead by Dr Ibra Ndoye, Director of Senegal HIV/AIDS program, Mr. David Wilson
(Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, Consultant) and Dr. Habiba Bouzaher (Public Health Specialist,
Consultant).
Preparation assistance:
Project preparation was assisted by Amy Ba, Sophie Hans-Moevi and Southsavy Nakhavanit.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                            Speciality
Solange Alliali                           Senior Counsel
Wolfgang Chadab                           Disbursement Officer
Jonathan Brown                            Operations Adviser
Anwar Bach-Baouab                         Task Team Leader
Richard Seifman                           Senior Nutrution Specialist
Kate Kuper                                Implementation and Urban Specialist
Christy Hanson                            Consultant
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye                  Financial Management Specialist
Debrework Zewdie                          Manager, AFRHV
Bachir Souhlal                           I,Lead Operations Specialist
Suzanne Periou-Sall                       Sr. Rural Specialist
Serigne Omar Fye                          Sr. Environmental Specialist
Denise R. Vaudaine                        Sr. Municipal Finance Specialist
Juan Rovira                               Sr. Economist
Patricio V. Marquez                       Lead Health Specialist
Karima Saleh                              Economist Consultant
Southsavy Vilay Nakhavanit               Program Assistant
Aissatou Mbaye       _____      __    _   Health Specialist          __      __
Bourama Diaite                         _  Sr. Procurement Specialist



118
Annex 12
Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Ministere de la Sante et de la Prevention. Plan Strategique National pour 2002 - 2006 (2001).
Ministere de la Sante et de la Prevention. Avant-Projet du Manuel d'Execution du Plan Strate'gique de lutte
contre le SIDA - 2002-2006 (2001).
Ministere de la Sante et de la Prevention. Avant-Projet du Plan de Gestion des Dechets Bio-nedicaux (2001).
ONUSIDA. L 'Experience Senegalaise en Matiere de Lutte contre le SIDA, Documentation des Meilleures
Pratiques. (2001).
ONUSIDA/Groupe Thematique/PNLS, Rapport d'Activites du Groupe ThUmatique ONUSIDA, Janvier a
decembre 2000 (fevr.er 2001).
Ministere de la famille et de la Petite Enfance. Rapport Forum National Femmes/SSIDt 2001 (Mars 2001).
Ministere de la Sante et de la Prevention. Comite National de Prevention du SIDA (CNPS), Senegal. Bulletin
Epidemiologique HIV, Groupe de Surveillance Sero-epidemiologique.
Ministere de la Sante et de la Prevention. Collecte de l 'Information pour la Prevention des IST et dlu VIH/SIDA
chez les hommes ayant des relations sexuelles avec d 'autres hommes dans la sociJte Senegalaise, Rapport Finial
(2001).
PNLS-ICASO Senegal -ACI-RESSIP-CONGAD. Repertoire des ONG, OCB et associations luttani contre le
VIH/SIDA au Se~negal (octobre, 2001).
C.H.U. A. Le Dantec HALD, Laboratoire de bact6riologie-virologie. Protocole de surveillance des
MST/VIH/SIDA au Senegal.
CDC, Atlanta. Rapport d'activites, octobre 2000 - mars 2001, (2001).
Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, Novembre 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment Report
Procurement Management Assessment Report
C. Other
*Including electronic files



119
Annex 13
Statement of Loans and Credits
CAS ANNEX BB SENEGAL - IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN THE OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
(As OF 12/1312001)
Active Credits = 20; Closed Credits 102                                                              Difference
Between
Last PSR                                                        Expected and
Actual
Supervision Rating b/            Original Amount in US$ Millions  Disbursements
a/
Project ID Project Name            Development Implementation Fiscal IBRD IDA  GRANT Cancel. Undisb.   Orig.
Obiectives  Progress      Year
P051610   AG.EXPORT PROMOTION           S            S        1998   0     8     0      0     4.8       4.4
P002367   AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS          S            S        1999   0   27.4    0      0     21.9      20
DISTANCE LEARNING                                           0
P069198   CENTER                        S            S       2000         2.1    0      0     0.9       0.3
P041567   ENDEMIC DISEASES              S           U         1997   0   14.9    0      0     10.6     10.6
P002373   HIGHER EDUC I                 U           U        1996    0   26.5    0      0     6.2       4.2
P002369  INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.           S           U        1998    0    50     0      0     25.8     25.5
LONG TERM WATER                                             0
P041528   SECTOR PROJECT                S            S       2001         125    0      0     124        0
NATIONAL RIJRAL                                             0
P057996  INFRASTRUCTURE                 S            S       2000        28.5    0      0     '4.l      16.7
P035621   PILOT FEMALE LITERACY        HS            S        1996   0    12.6   0      0     0.5      -1 I
PUBLIC SERV. INFO-                                          0
P067498   SYSTEMS MODERNIZ.             S            S       2000         10.2   0      0     7.6       8.2
QUALITY EDUCATION                                           0
P047319   FOR ALL PROGRANI              S            S       2000         50     0      0     40.8     -5.6
P051357   SN ENERGY SEC. ADJ.           S            S        1998   0    100    0      0     42.4     45.6
P046648   REGIONAL POWER                S            S        1997   0    i0.5   0      0     2.9       3.3
SN                                                          0
P046768   SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT           S            S        1997        5.2    0      0      3        2.6
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT                                          0
P041566   FUND PROGRAM                  S            S       2001         30     0      0     28.2     -1.6
TRADE REFORM AND                                            0
P055471   COMPETITIVENESS               S           S        2001         100    0      0     47.9      1.9
P002366   TRANSPORT II                  U           U        1999    0    90     0      0     76.4     21.8
P002365   URB DEVT & DECEN PRO          S           S         1998   0    75     0      0     43.7     37.9
URBAN MOBILITY
IMPROVEMENT                                                 0
P055472   PROGRAM                       S            S       2000         70     0      0     63.9     12.1
P002346   WATER SECTOR                 HS           S         1995   0   100     0      0     41.3     58.8
Overall                                                              0
result                                                       Result      935.8 0      0      616.9     265.4
IBRD/IDA Total Disbursed (Active)     250.90
(in US$)      of which has been repaid  0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)    1,383.40
of which has been repaid  272.10
Total Disbursed (Active +   1,650.63
Closed)
Of which has been repaid    272.13
Total Undisbursed (Active)  616.90
Total Undisbursed (Closed)      0.35
Total Undisbursed                     617.25
(Active + Closed)
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced
(HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisactory, U = Unsatisfactory; HU = Highly Unsatisfactory



120
CAS Annex B8: SENEGAL - Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In millions of U.S. dollars, as of July 31, 2001)
Held                     Disbursed
FY      Company       Loan Equity Quasi Participati Loan Equity Quasi Participation
Approval                                  on
SERT          0.09   0     0      0     0.09    0     0       0
1996/97/
98
1980 BHS            0   0.46   0      0       0    0.46   0       0
1999 Ciments du   12.27 2.15  2.15    0       0     0     0       0
Sahel
1997 GTI Dakar    11.07 1.57   0     9.13    7.57  1.27   0      9.13
1998 SENTA        0.17   0     0      0      0.17   0     0       0
1994/96 SOGECA        0     0     0      0       0     0    0       0
Total Portfolio:  23.6  4.18  2.15   9.13    7.83  1.73   0     9.13
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Participati
on
2001 Royal Saly    1.0   0     0       0
2000 SGBS IFC/PSD  3.4   0     0       0
2000 CITI IFC/PSD  3.4   0     0       0
Total Pending     7.8   0     0       0
Commitment:
SERT = Societe d 'exploitation des ressources thonn&res (fisheries)
BHS = Banque Habitat du Senegal (financial)
CDS = Ciments du Sahel (cement factory)
GTI-DAKAR = Power project
SENTA = Senegal Tanerie (leather manufacturing)
SOGECA = Societe generale de credit automobiles (financial)
Royal Saly = small tourist hotel



121
Annex 14
Country at a lance
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Senegal at a glance                                                            12/17/01
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Senegal     Africa   income    r Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       9 5      659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   500       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      4.7      313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        2.7       2.6       1.9 
Labor force (%6)                                       -       2.6       2.4    GNI                            pma Gross
per        sc    t #      -    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              45        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      52        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              68        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            22                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  51        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  67        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  66       78        96               Senegal
Male                                                71        85        02                  Low-income group
Female                                              57        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      20fE0
Economir ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           3.0      5.7       4.8       4.4
Gross dornestic investmentGDP               11.7     13.8      19.0      19.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP           26.9     25.4      30.4     30.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -5.0      8.9      11.5      10.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  -7.4      6.0      12.9      134
Current account balance/GDP                -17.5     -7.7      -6.1      -6.5    Domestic                    lrvestment
Interest payments/GDP                        2 2      1.5       1.2       1 8
Total debtUGDP                              49.3     65.5      78.3      82.0
Total debt service/exports                  26.7     20.2      13.5      18.0
Present value of debtUGDP                      -       -       42.4     47.4
Present value of debtUexports                                 120 8     129.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 31       3.6      5 1       5.6      5.1            -Senegal
GDP per capita                      0 3      0 9      2 3       2 9      2.4                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.7      2.9      6.0      10 5      5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP D-)P
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 18 9     19.9      18 0      18.2
Industry                                    15.4     18.7      25.5     26.9     20 -
Manufacturing                             10.6     13.1      16.9      17.8     10
Services                                    65.8     61.4      56.4      55.0 0
Private consumption                         84.7     76.4      77.6     78.8    -10 -   95    96   97    98   99   00
General govemment consumption               20.3     14.7      10.9      10.4              _     GDI      O-GDP
Imports of goods and services               43.6     30.3      37.9     39.6
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.8      1.9       6.0      11.5    15-
Industry                                    4.3      4.8        6.3      7 3     10 -
Manufacturing                              4.6      4.0       4.9       4.8     5
Services                                    2.8      3.8        4.5      3.4      0        __         -     - 
Private consumption                          2.1      3.6       6.4       5.1    -      95   96    97   98    99    0
General govemment consumption                3.3     -0. 1      2.3       0.1    10 -
Gross domestic investment                    5.2      5.0      -1.7      4.4             -Expons        ---Imports
Imports of goods and services                1.8      1.9       4.4       54
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.



122
Seneg(
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                              8.7      0.3       0.8       0.7    30
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.5      1.2       1.5       0.7   120 t
Govemment finance                                                                10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0                    -
Current revenue                             22.1     17.2      17.5      18.2    j       95    96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                       -0.5    -1.3       5.1       4.5            -     GDP deflator  e  CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                     -5.3     -3.8      -3.4      -1.8
TRADE
i1980    1990      1999     2000     r Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)!
Total exports (fob)                          480      912      1,028     959     1,600
Groundnut                                   83      159        64       112     1400
Fish                                        78       71        33        33     1,2001
Manufactures                               136      181       242       241     1000
Total imports (cif)                        1,105    1,335      1,455    1,500      800-
900-
Food                                       210      361       336       305      400
Fuel and energy                            276      159       197       280      200t
Capital goods                              158      195       234       246        o
9 95 96   97   9899      00
Export price index (1995=100)                 79       89        84       77
Import price index (1995=100)                 78       88        86       89                  H Exports     8 Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    101      101        98       87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$mi     )1980                                     1990      1999     2000 m'Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                875    1,491     1,445     1,339    01
imports of goods and services              1,327    1.764      1,808    1,734    -1
Resource balance                            -452     -273      -361     -395      2 -
Net income                                  -100     -197       -91      -86     -3 -
Net current transfers                         28       32       159      198     '4     I      i     "
Current account balance                     -524     -438      -292     -284      6        *   l
Financing items (net)                        388      503       378      262     1-7
Changes in net reserves                      135      -66       -86       22       !
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        25       22       552      527
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           211.3    272.3      614.9    710.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,473    3,733      3,725    3,595
IBRD                                        57       88         5        1
IDA                                        100      747     1,310     1,370              F   G 27  1
Total debt service                           260      325       225      288
lBRD                                         6       15         5        4                                    B: 1,370
IDA                                          1        7        22       28
Compositon of net resource flows                                                   E: 1,224
Official grants                          #REF     #REF      #REF      #REF
Official creditors                         167       96       -22       45
Private creditors                            3      -15        -3        0
Foreign direct investment                   15       57       169       94                   _          _
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0        0                     D 532      c 14
World Bank program
Commitments                                 58      161         0        0      A -18RD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               30      117        49      100      5- IDA   D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         2       12        16       21      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   28      105        33       79
Interest payments                            4       10        11       11
Net transfers                               23       95        22       68
Development Economics                                                                                             12/17101



123
Annex 15
Senegal HIV/AIDS Brief
SENEGAL: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
# ;e lJ fl ^_.~,             A-1; ..... .,C - 
HIVIAIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Saharan Africa: 36
Background                                                                              Key Data
> Senegal's low prevalence rate could prove deceptive as the compound effect of HIWV/AIDS
is dramatic. For example, a 3 percent HIV prevalence rate equates to a 20 percent lifetime  Pretalence anx ng Ages 1549: 1.770o
risc A prevalence rate of 20 percent leads to a 50 percent lifetime risk-           TLij Po.p:l 3innn I IQA43 3million
>   In Dakar, HIV prevalence among sex workers increased gradually from less than I percent  People Living with IV/AIDS (1999):
in 1986 to 10 percent in 1994. Outside of Dakar, prevalence among sex workers increased  Adult (I$49J 76,000
from zero percent in 1986 and 1989 to 12.5 percent in 1996. HIV prevalence among male   Woutn (I 5-49): 40,000
STI patients in Dakar rose from I percent in 1989 to nearly 5 percent in 1993.          Children (0-15): 3,300
>   There is little mother-to-child transmission of HIV in Senegal. Consequently, HIV/AIDS  Cumnlative AIDS Death: unknown
has had a minimal impact on under-five mortality. However, the epidemic has had an im-  AIDS Deaths in 1999: 7,800
pact on children, as it has orphaned over 49,000 children under the age of 15.      Number of HIVAIDS Orphans
>   In 1993, only 5.7 percent of women ages 20-29, who are most likely to get pregnant, report-  (curmlative): 42,000
ed ever using a condom.                                                             FHV Prevalence among Pregnant Women
(mnedian):
Urban. 0.3%(1996)
Country Response/Obstacles                                                                  Rural: 0. 150% (1 996)
>   Senegal has a long history of strong community involvement in health issues, and in many
NGOs, associations, and community organizations.                                           HIV Prevalence among Sex
>   The response to the epidemic by civil society and religious organizations has been strong.  Workers, Raral (percent)
>   Sex work has been regulated in Senegal since the 1970s, resulting in an STI control program  ,
for sex workers and clients and a high rate of condom use in commercial sex.
>   Senegal has a strong national AIDS program with government commitment at the highest  ,, --
levels.                                                                              9
>   There is a need to design more effective multisectoral strategies.                   6
>   Awareness of HIV/AIDS among the general population is high. However, there is a need to
increase useful knowledge on prevention.                                             3-
>   There is a need to design more effective outreach programs targeting youth.
>   Senegal's participation in research activities, including the introduction and monitoring of  -A  I' .  199 IV  1994 I'M I'Ab
drug therapies, needs to be expanded.
Bank Activities to Date
Yes     No
Is HI V/AIDS a regular part of our high-level dialogue with govt. and civil society?  ?
Does InVIAtDS receive substantive treatment in the CAS or its update?  9
Has the portfolio been reviewed for HIV/AIDS retrofitting?
Do all projects include the necessary HIV/AIDS-mitigation components?
Does the Bank regularly attend UNAIDS meetings?                      ?
Project Name           Closing Date           SM              AIDS SM
Human Resources Dev. Project 1  3/31/97       35.0            0.6
> The Health Sector Investment Project supports the Government's efforts against HIWV/AIDS,
including the National AIDS Control Programn
P   There is possible Government support for a stand-alone project addressing HV/AIDS/STIs.



MAP SECTION






[BED 31726
14               13                12'                            SENEGAL
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND
M A U R I T A N I A                                           CONTROL PROJECT
PROJET D'APPUI A LA PREVENTION
ET AU CONTROLE DUVYIHISIDA
-               i:. .;                     'NS                                                               AU SENEGAL
ATIANTIC ~~~~~~~~~~~~.EXISTING PILOT ART/PMTCT CLINICAL SITE
A T LA NT IC                I                                                       ,                                                         . SITE CLINIOUE PILOTS ACTUEL POSE
!~Itg~                 I \  '   -      '.ed | N T  GoloT\O  -                                       16'               ART/PMTCT
O C E A N o . -.-j . I                                         LO  iS                              -_,hlIgES DE LEXiSIEXPANSION DE L'ART/PMTCT
OCEAN                                                                                                                        F ~~~~~~~~~-  ~-.2  TuoEXPANSION SITES OFPARTIPMTCT
i   ` 7e  ,                                      L  U  I s                                                   ,  '  EPIDEINOLOsGICAL SURVEILLANCE
I SENTINEL SITES
-  E'.J.j1u,Oo S094                                           C.                                              - _  SITES SENTINELLES DE SURVEILLANCE
EPIDEMIOIOOIQUE
____PRIMARY ROADS
4 ft--  1        'E/ on                                    (                         E k j ROUTES PRINCIPALES
N -  -   L    ~~~~LI) G--L..-../                                                                                SECONDARY ROADS
a ,   -    \   L   ,    .   J  Cl    }   l  -  _ _ -\ / ( V) -                                           ROUTES SECONDAIRES
_1, . . . /              -              N        .VN                                16'          0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
I                      okel          )                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITES ET VNLIES CHOISIES
1. 4',  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                                 /*                                        DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
CAP VERT                           II-'CAPITALES DES DEPARTEMENTS
..t,.Bod-.  /;  DIu   I  t                                                        I                                         REGION CAPITALS 9OA
LJMNMI4fOtN TLJIE                    - ,TE -      _          <     -      r      '       -        -Tspa0Mb/S              CAPITALES DES REGIONS
IHIE     rot                4           N     -    .                                                 00/*                  NATIONAL CAPITALS
___  r                             /      Ridiro                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPITALE NATIONALE
F '                                  r                                         K                              - - - - - DEPARTMENT EOUNDARIES
I  I-I              Touberl I                   K                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMITES DES DEPARTEMENTS
le'pU LNCHC\F-Zs;    ;' - ,jfj                                                                           ROtA-  REGION RUNDARI: .p  _ .   :, ;R I_
L'S)                                              '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
!I.'  *   r       -     -e                       F -                             /                                 IMITES *IN  NATINALE1M T T
jZZ~~~~~~~~~~*--&~~~~~~~~~ ~MALI                                S       SD       100
-          -               L;  -. |   1""j/N <             / U NN 
EANIl     T            -~\                            r_-/ '---                                                 -- ,.            , -p oolpro0oodbyIoeMopDgoUo;roFdboT. -
-GAGUIEABIA       --                                           -             - --p \                   A     i -:e ;,pl, - A. - Thl GWd -k Gp,or
-. !                      i  -;   ,!lr l   .'I   -
I  - '             '  F .  }         :                  , 26                        -    ,       , . ,,, I,-_
(                                 C                         I            - I~~~~~~~3  lpI Ar I
'GUJINEA   -BISSAL'                                   -"'IPE
GUINEA               12'  Tot             -' -'~~~12-
'J V..      I                   '2'                              .:.sG.UII N  " -



