Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3601 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 1, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3601 SE 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received from the Borrower the following policy documents, namely, 
the
 Plan Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA 
or PMLS, the multisector strategic plan against 
HIV/AIDS for the period 2002-2006, and 
l’Initiative  Sénégalaise pour l’accès aux 
AntiRétroViraux
 or ISAARV, the Senegal Initiative for the Introduction of Antiretroviral 
Therapy (collectively, the Program) describing therein the Borrower’s program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to prevent and control the expansion of HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Project is part of the second phase of the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP II) for 
the Africa Region, approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the Association on February 
7, 2002; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  3
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary Community” means a community of people living in the 
Borrower’s territory, including target groups under the Project, namely, in-or-out of school 
youths; women; commercial sex workers; PLWHA (as hereinafter defined), people with signs 
and symptoms of STIs (as hereinafter defined), workers, armed forces, migrants, and health 
workers, and for the benefit of whom HIV/AIDS (as hereinafter defined) prevention, treatment, 
care and support activities are being carried out either under a Work Plan (as hereinafter defined) 
or a Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“CBO” means a community based organization, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
“
Conseil National de lutte contre le Sida
” and
“CNLS” mean the Borrower’s 
national HIV/AIDS council, to be established under the Project; 
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(f)
“Executing Agencies” means collectively, relevant government agencies and  
Line Ministries (as hereinafter defined) of the Borrower which meet the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the POM (as hereinafter defined) for the implementation of the Project;
(g)
“FCFA” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière d'Afrique
, the currency of 
the Borrower; 
(h)
“Financial Management Agent” and “FMA” mean a private financial institution, 
accounting or audit firm, or private sector entity which has met the eligibility criteria set out in 
the POM (as hereinafter defined) and which is responsible for the management of the proceeds of 
the Credit under the Project; 
(i)
“Financial Management Agency Contract” means the Agreement entered into 
between NES (as hereinafter defined) and the Financial Management Agent for the purpose of 
carrying out the financial management of the Project and the internal audits thereof, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the Association prior written consent; 
(j)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
Page  4
(j)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31;
(k)
“Grant” means collectively a Public Sector Grant (as hereinafter defined) and a 
Private Sector Grant (as hereinafter defined);
(l)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between NES (as 
hereinafter defined) and an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) for the purpose of 
financing the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome;
(n)
“HIV/AIDS Committee” means either a regional or departmental committee of 
the Borrower, established for the purpose of carrying out some of the functions of NES (as 
hereinafter defined) at their respective level;
(o)
“IAPSO” means the Inter Agency Procurement Office of the United Nations;        
(p)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication;
(q)
“Implementing Agencies” means collectively NGOs (as hereinafter defined), 
CBOs, associations, religious organizations, the private sector, and civil society groups and 
organizations which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the POM (as hereinafter defined)  for 
the implementation of the Project;
(r)
“Deposit” means the amount to be deposited into the Project Account pursuant 
to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(s)
“ISAARV” means 
Initiative Sénégalaise pour l’Accès aux AntiRétro
-
Viraux
, the 
Borrower’s Initiative for the Introduction of antiretroviral therapy in its territory, dated August 
1998;
(t)
“Line Ministries” mean the ministries in the Borrower’s government cabinet 
structure;
(u)
“MAP II” means the second phase of the multi-country HIV/AIDS Program; 
(v)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(w)
“MOHP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Prevention; 
(x)
“National Executive Secretariat” and “NES” mean the secretariat established 
within CNLS for the purpose of coordinating a broad-based multisectoral response by the 
government and civil society to the HIV/AIDS threat of expansion;
(y)
“NGO” means a non governmental organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(z)
“OI” means opportunistic infection;
Page  5
(aa)
“PLWHA” means People Living with HIV/AIDS; 
(bb)
“PNA” means 
pharmacie nationale d’approvisionnement,
 the autonomous drug 
procurement agency of the Borrower;
 (cc)
“Private Sector Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made through a 
Grant Agreement to an Implementing Agency out of the proceeds of the Credit for the carrying 
out of a Subproject;
(dd)
“Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(ee)
“Project Management Report” and “PMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(ff)
“Project Operational Manual” and “POM” mean the manual referred to in 
Section 6.01(e) of this Agreement, consisting of different modules, including a Procedures 
Manual and a Financial Management Manual setting forth respectively, 
inter alia
, the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures; the procurement and disbursement 
procedures; eligibility criteria for  the Financial Management Agent, Work Plans and Subprojects 
(as hereinafter defined), the terms and conditions for the Financial Management Agency Contract 
and the Grant Agreements, including procurement and accounting thereof, training plans and 
capacity building programs; reporting requirements to the Borrower and the Association; detailed 
medical, social and behavioral performance indicators and other activities and arrangements to 
be used for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the Association’s prior written consent, and such term to include any schedules, tables and 
annexes to the POM;
(gg)
“Public Sector Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to an 
Executing Agency for the purpose of financing the carrying out of a Work Plan under the 
Project;
(hh)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(ii)
“STI” means sexually transmitted infection;
(jj)
“Subproject” means a specific HIV/AIDS related project to be carried out by an 
Implementing Agency utilizing the proceeds of a Private Sector Grant to be extended under a 
Grant Agreement between  NES and an Implementing Agency;
(kk)
“UNFPA” means the United Nations Fund for Population Activities;
(ll)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization;
(mm)
“Work Plan” means an Executing Agency’s multi sector work plan against 
HIV/AIDS, excluding procurement of drugs, reagents and biomedical equipment, financed or 
proposed to be financed through a Public Sector Grant  made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
extended under a Work Plan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out by such 
Page  6
HIV/AIDS, excluding procurement of drugs, reagents and biomedical equipment, financed or 
proposed to be financed through a Public Sector Grant  made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
extended under a Work Plan Agreement (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out by such 
Executing Agency; and
(nn)
“Work Plan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered between NES and an 
Executing Agency for the carrying out of a specific program of HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, 
care and support activities included in a Work Plan, including budget and agreed input and 
output performance indicators thereof, to be financed through the provision of a Public Sector 
Grant made out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 23,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of a Implementing or Executing Agency, to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the carrying out, respectively, of a Work Plan and 
a
Subproject to be financed under Parts B and C, respectively, of the Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
Page  7
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  June 1 and 
December 1,  commencing June 1, 2012 and ending December 1, 2041. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on  December 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
Page  8
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
the National Executive Secretariat of CNLS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices, with due regard for 
environment, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continuous objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing 
of the Project, shall:
Page  9
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the Project 
Account) in FCFA in its Treasury books on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make a Deposit into the Project Account, in an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 140,000,000, to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project; and
(c)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  10
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
(c) 
Sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
Page  11
(c) 
Sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established the accounting and financial management system 
for the Project referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed a Financial Management Agent for the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational  Manual and the Project 
Implementation Plan, both in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the plan of actions and the 
procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation;
(f)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a medical waste management 
plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)
the Borrower has appointed to the staff of NES: an Executive Secretary, three (3) 
Program Coordinators, and a Financial Controller, all with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
Page  12
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rue René N'diaye
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203 G
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  13
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By                                                   /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                                     /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Works 
600,000
80% of local
expenditures
(2) 
Drugs and 
        5,650,000
100% of foreign
biomedical equipment
expenditures
(3)
Goods 
900,000
80% of local
expenditures 
Page  14
(4)
Consultants’
3,900,000
100%
services and training
 (5)
Grants
9,800,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
 (6)
Operating costs
1,100,000
80%
 
(7)
Unallocated
1,650,000
TOTAL
23,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under 
the Project on account of audit, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, 
utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances, travel accommodation, office rental and 
Project support staff recruited to work in NES, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of : 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures under category 5 until and unless the Grants have been made in 
accordance with the procedures, terms, conditions, guidelines and other provisions set out or 
referred to in the POM and this Agreement, as shall be evidenced by the first such five (5) Grants 
furnished to the Association for its review, namely, four (4) Private Sector Grants concluded 
with, respectively, a private sector enterprise, an NGO, a CBO and an association;  and one (1) 
Page  15
Public Sector Grant. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) works, under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) services, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting 
firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iv) Grants, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into said 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1, Annex B, hereto.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
Page  16
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  17
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 1,400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 700,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the  Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  18
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of FCFA 
2,100,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing the Program 
through preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS, expanding PLWHAs’ access to treatment, care and 
support, and supporting civil society and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS prevention and 
care.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Strengthening Capacity of Executing and Implementing Agencies and Project 
Coordination 
Structures
Building additional planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation capacity in the 
public and private sectors and at community level through the:
1
(a)
provision of technical advisory services in project design, participatory planning 
and monitoring of community-based activities to HIV/AIDS unit staff of Executing Agencies, 
and Implementing Agencies; and
Page  19
(b)
carrying out of training programs in voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), 
prevention of mother to child transmission, prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections 
and tuberculosis, and provision of antiretroviral therapy (ART) to laboratory technicians, medical 
and paramedical staff and social workers of the public and private sectors; and
2
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of a comprehensive 
monitoring and evaluation plan in biological and behavioral surveillance and epidemiological 
research, including researching the relevance, quantity and quality of public sector and civil 
society services;
and
(b)
acquisition of goods, consisting of equipment and materials, for the carrying out 
of monitoring and evaluation activities.
Part B
:   Support to Civil Society and Community Based Initiatives
Intensifying prevention, care, social support and mitigation of HIV/AIDS through:
1.
carrying out IEC programs aimed at: (a) specific target groups, including PLWHA and 
their families, and (b) CBOs and the private sector and their employees; and
2.
provision of Private Sector Grants to Implementing Agencies for the carrying out, 
inter 
alia,
 of: (a) prevention and sensitization activities targeted at specific groups, (b) provision of 
home and community based care for AIDS patients, and (c) social support to AIDS orphans and 
affected households, including training in income generation activities, and provision of related 
sub-grants for the carrying out of such activities, if needed.
Part C
: Support to Multi-Sector Programs of Government Agencies
1.
Supporting the Borrower’s expansion of HIV/AIDS activities through the provision of 
Public Sector Grants to Executing Agencies for the carrying out of eligible HIV/AIDS related 
activities under Work plan Agreements, including:
(a)
organizing the design, implementation, coordination and evaluation of IEC 
programs on  prevention, care and social support for Beneficiary Communities; and
(b)
carrying out IEC campaigns in favour of  Beneficiary Communities for the 
promotion of: (i) condoms and related acquisition and distribution thereof, (ii) voluntary 
counseling and testing and facilitation of access thereto, (iii) antiretroviral therapy, prevention 
and treatment of sexually transmitted infections, mother to child transmission of HIV/AIDS, 
other opportunistic infections and tuberculosis.
2.
Supporting the decentralization in each of the Borrower’s regions of Line Ministries’ 
Page  20
2.
Supporting the decentralization in each of the Borrower’s regions of Line Ministries’ 
pilot prevention activities against  mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS.
3.
Assisting the Borrower in expanding ISAARV to all the main cities within its territory 
through the:
(a)
carrying out of diagnosis, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS patients, including 
sexually transmitted and opportunistic infections and tuberculosis;
(b)
carrying out of minor rehabilitation works of selected laboratory facilities and 
voluntary counseling centers; and
(c)
acquisition of drugs and reagents, including antiretroviral drugs, for the 
treatment of patients.
Part D
: Support to Project Management, Administration and Monitoring
Support for a most efficient programming, implementation, coordination and monitoring 
of the Project through the:
1.
strengthening of the operations and structure of CNLS and NES to ensure efficient 
coordination of activities;
2.
contracting the services of a Financial Management Agent to carry out: (a) the financial 
management of the Project,  (b) the review of the Work Plans and Subprojects, and (iii) the 
internal audit, supervision and reporting required under the Project; and
3.
organization of regular operational meetings and annual Project reviews of CNLS and 
NES.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Page  21
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, drugs, biomedical equipment and 
other goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to drugs, biomedical equipment and goods  to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for drugs, biomedical equipment and goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent for goods and $300,000 equivalent for 
works, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
Page  22
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded either on 
the basis of national shopping procedures or international shopping procedures, depending on  
local availability, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Drugs, biomedical equipment and goods costing $6,000,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Drugs, biomedical equipment and  goods may be procured from UNFPA, WHO and 
IAPSO, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
Page  23
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Page  24
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
 1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
Page  25
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services, irrespective of its value, 
the terms of reference and short list of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Institutional  structure
1.
For the purpose of coordination and general oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall 
establish and maintain until the completion of the Project, the CNLS. The CNLS shall, 
inter alia:
(i) facilitate working relations amongst institutions concerned by Project implementation; (ii) 
review the progress towards achieving the Project’s objectives, including the Project’s annual 
agreed Work Plans and Subprojects; (iii) ensure the participation of key stakeholders in the 
general orientation of the Project; and (iv) organize regular operational meetings. 
2.
The Borrower shall maintain NES, until the completion of the Project. NES shall consist 
of a number of key staff, appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, including an Executive Secretary, Administrative and Financial Officer, and 
three (3) Program Coordinators. NES shall be responsible for: (i) the overall coordination 
regarding the implementation of the different Parts of the Project; (ii) the establishment and 
implementation of an independent monitoring and evaluation system (iii) the approval of Wok 
Plans and Subprojects; and (iv) the financial and administrative management of the Project.  NES 
activities shall be under the supervision of CNLS to which it will report periodically.
3.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain an HIV/AIDS unit in each Line Ministry to 
act as its focal point in the coordination of HIV/AIDS activities being carried out in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Implementation Arrangements
4.
The Borrower  shall carry out the Project in accordance with the POM and the PIP  and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or  waive any provision thereof 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Page  26
5.
The Borrower shall recruit a Financial Management Agent with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association to assist in the implementation of the Project 
through the carrying out of: (i) the financial management of Project activities, including the 
accounting and disbursement requirements thereof; (ii) the review and approval of Work Plans 
and Subprojects; and (iii) reporting requirements and monitoring activities.
Work Plans  and Subprojects
6.
The Borrower shall cause all Line Ministries and other governmental agencies to furnish 
draft Work Plans for review by the Financial Management Agent and approval by NES, which 
shall: (i) be prepared in a fully decentralized and participatory manner; (ii) be fully reflective of 
PMLS policy and priorities; (iii) be prepared in accordance with key performance indicators; (iv) 
include an itemized budget and financing plan; (v) provide that the implementation of the Work 
Plan through the Work Plan Agreement to be entered into between NES and such Line Ministry 
or government agency is to be supported and supervised  semi-annually by NES; and (vi) that 
such Work Plan Agreement is to be implemented in accordance with the key performance 
indicators referred to in subparagraph (iii) above.
7.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 (d) of this Schedule, no Subproject or 
Work Plan shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the NES shall 
have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set 
forth in the POM that the Subproject or Work Plan satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the 
POM, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Subproject or Work Plan shall be for the provision of HIV/AIDS related 
services in the areas of prevention, care, treatment, IEC programs and social support;
(b)
the Subproject or Work Plan shall be reviewed by the FMA and technically 
appraised and approved by NES, all in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in the POM; 
and
(c)
the Subproject or Work Plan shall be in compliance with the standards set forth 
in the laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
Terms and conditions of Work Plan Agreements and Grant Agreements  
8.
(a)
(i)
In financing a Work Plan, NES shall enter into a Work Plan Agreement 
with an Executing Agency; and
(ii)
in financing a Subproject, NES shall enter into a Grant Agreement with 
an Implementing Agency; and
(b)
for purposes of carrying out each eligible Work Plan and Subproject NES shall 
enter into agreements setting forth the respective obligations of the parties ,all  under terms and 
Page  27
(b)
for purposes of carrying out each eligible Work Plan and Subproject NES shall 
enter into agreements setting forth the respective obligations of the parties ,all  under terms and 
conditions which shall include the following:
(i)
financing for: (A) Work Plans shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed 
$2.5 million equivalent per Work Plan Agreement; and (B) Subprojects 
shall be for services rendered, not to exceed $200,000 equivalent per 
Grant Agreement. The number of Grants to each Implementing Agency 
shall be limited to two (2) during Project implementation;
(ii)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Work Plan Agreement or the Grant Agreement be 
procured in conformity with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and that such goods works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Work Plan or the Subproject;
(iii)
the requirement that: (A) technical and financial reports on the 
implementation of the Work Plan or Subproject  be furnished  
semi-annually to NES for review; and (B) during the last review for the 
period concerned, action plans and budget for the following year  be 
furnished to NES; 
(iv)
the right of NES to inspect by itself or jointly with the Association the 
services included in the Subproject or the activities and services 
included in the Work Plan and any record or relevant document; and
(v)
the right of NES to suspend or terminate the right of  an Executing 
Agency or Implementing Agency to use the proceeds of the Credit upon 
failure by the Executing Agency or Implementing Agency  to perform 
any of its obligations under the Work Plan Agreement and the Grant 
Agreement
.
Dated covenants
9.
The Borrower shall, not later than May 30, 2002:
(a)
establish, restructure or strengthen, as the case may be, NES and the regional and 
department level HIV/AIDS Committees;
(b)
furnish to the Association a monitoring and evaluation action plan for the 
Project; and
(c)      appoint an in-house  Accountant within each  Line Ministry or government agency  
eligible to receive proceeds of the Credit under the Project.
10.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2002, furnish to the Association a detailed 
strategic action  plan for its  IEC campaigns against HIV/AIDS under the Project.
11.
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2002, appoint and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation, a technical auditor with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association and who shall be responsible for preparation of a technical audit 
Page  28
11.
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2002, appoint and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation, a technical auditor with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association and who shall be responsible for preparation of a technical audit 
report, satisfactory in form and substance to the Association,  to be furnished annually by the 
Borrower to the Association.
Reviews
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about February 15 each year during Project implementation, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 each year, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower agrees that Project performance will 
be measured by the Indicators below as of December 31, 2006, unless otherwise agreed by the 
Association:
Process indicators
1.
90% of Line Ministries involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS (whether target or 
objective oriented) have made adequate budget allocation for HIV/AIDS activities  in their 
budget plans.
2.
Programs for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS and the 
establishment of voluntary counseling and testing centers  have been carried out in each of the 
Borrower’s regions.
3.
30 NGOs’ Subprojects  and 300 CBOs’ Subprojects for the carrying out of IEC activities 
Page  29
3.
30 NGOs’ Subprojects  and 300 CBOs’ Subprojects for the carrying out of IEC activities 
in each of the Borrowers’ regions are financed under the Project.
Outcome indicators
4.
70% of young male adolescents between the ages of 15 to 19 have used condoms during 
their last sexual intercourse.
5.
70% of people with STIs are being treated in accordance with national standards.
6.
60% of females targeted under the Program for the prevention of mother-to-child 
transmission of HIV/AIDS have agreed to voluntary testing of HIV/AIDS.
7.
90% of health facilities provide health services to PLWHA in accordance with national 
standards.
8.
95% of HIV positive people being treated in health facilities get psychosocial support.
9.
7000 HIV/AIDS patients have received  antiretroviral therapy.
10.
80% of civil society groups’ subprojects financed out of the proceeds of the Credit  have 
been successfully carried out in accordance with their respective performance indicators 
set forth in the POM.
Impact indicators
11.
HIV prevalence rate within the population at large in the Borrower’s territory is inferior 
to 3%.
