Page  1
Report No. 
39863
 
Project Name   
 
 
Senegal-HIV/AIDS Prevention and 
 
Control Project 
 
Region 
    Africa 
 
Sector 
 
    HA 
- 
HIV/AIDS 
 
Project 
ID 
 
   P074059 
 
Borrower(s) 
 
   Government 
of 
Senegal 
 
Implementing Agency  
 
Multi-Sector Government Agencies 
Ministry of Health and Prevention 
Address: Building Administratif, 
Dakar, Senegal 
Contact Person: Dr Omar K.Faye, 
Director of Health 
Tel: (221) 644 34 85 
Fax: (221) 869 42 49 
 
Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA 
(PNLS) 
Contact Person: Dr Ibrahima Ndoye 
Tel: (221) 869 09 09 
Fax: (221) 820 34 79 
Email: indoye@cnls-senegal.org 
 
Environment Category  
 
B 
 
Date PID Prepared  
 
 
November 22, 2001 
 
Date PID Revised 
 
 
May 10, 2007 
 
Appraisal Date  
 
November 19, 2001 
 
Board Date  
 
 
January 17, 2002 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Senegal continues to shoulder a heavy burden of preventable and largely treatable 
disease. Senegal has increased health investment from US$8 per capita in 1996 to US$15 
in 2007. It has also implemented a clear policy shift toward the prevention of disease 
Page  2
2
through the decentralization of health services and through the involvement of 
beneficiaries and NGOs, particularly in the management and implementation of 
programs. However, these efforts risk being undermined by Senegal's rapid population 
growth and still high but stable HIV prevalence rates among specific high risk groups 
(20% of CSW and 21% of Men having Sex with other Men are HIV positive). 
Furthermore, the extent of behavior change is still limited compared to the high level of 
awareness and requires a significant effort for the promotion of safer sexual behavior and 
to increase the median age at first sexual contact. The population is expected to attain 16 
million in 2020, almost doubling from 2000 (9.4 million), pushing the urban population 
to about 9 million. This will exert unrelenting pressure on social services, and in the 
event of weakening economic conditions, poses a major threat of increased prevalence of 
communicable diseases, notably HIV/AIDS. Senegal has a reasonable chance of 
significantly containing HIV/AIDS during the next years. Factors which have helped 
Senegal's success in maintaining one of the lowest prevalence in the region and which 
favor further reduction of new infections are: strong commitment at the highest level of 
government and civil society; an early and unanimous decision (1986) to confront STD 
and contain HIV infections; consistent and sustained strategic direction and management 
of the program; a high level of sensitization to the issues on the part of civil society, the 
private sector and government, leading to strategic alliances between Muslims and 
Catholics, the NGOs and key groups such PLWHA, women, youth and high risk groups; 
strong capacity for policy formulation and strategic planning; a good network of primary, 
secondary and tertiary health care facilities; tested delivery systems and increasingly 
robust mechanisms for M&E and grassroots participation; the development of best 
practices with the assistance of major international research institutions, now 
disseminated widely in the Region. The 2002-2006 and 2007-2010 National Strategic 
Plans Against HIV/AIDS in Senegal (
Programme Multisectoriel de Lutte Contre le SIDA 
-
PMLS
)
were developed and adopted through a multisectoral consultative process in 
2001 and is considered by Government as an integral part of the broader framework for 
poverty alleviation. It builds on the earlier National Strategic Plans, and constitutes a 
synthesis of sector strategic plans that were elaborated through a series of consultations 
within each sector and at the regional level. These multi-sector regional plans involve the 
government ministries, private sector and civil society and stress the need for partnership 
among all the actors on the ground to ensure a coordinated, localized response to 
reducing the spread of HIV infections and the socio-economic impact of AIDS. The 
Government of Senegal has thus requested access to IDA resources within the framework 
of the second phase of Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP2) for the Africa Region 
was presented to the Board of Directors on
 January 17, 2002
.
Senegal is eligible for 
MAP funding and has satisfied the four MAP eligibility criteria as follows: a) Senegal 
already has a coherent national strategy and has developed a comprehensive medium-
term multi-sector plan in a participatory approach with all concerned stakeholders; b) it 
has created a national HIV/AIDS council chaired by the Prime Minister with broad 
representation from all sectors and civil society including people living with HIV/AIDS, 
to coordinate the implementation of the national plan; c) the Government has agreed to 
use exceptional implementation arrangements by channeling funds directly to both public 
and private sector implementing agencies, civil society organizations, associations of 
PLWHA, and to communities; and, d) Government has agreed to outsource important 
Page  3
3
implementation aspects such as behavior surveys, operation research, financial 
management and program management monitoring and evaluation.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The overall development objective of the Project is to contribute to the Borrower’s efforts 
in controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic by: (i) expanding HIV/AIDS prevention 
interventions among vulnerable groups including, youth and women, and high risk 
groups (commercial sex workers, tuberculosis patients, truck drivers); 
 
(ii) expanding access to treatment, care and support for people living with HIV/AIDS in 
Senegal; and (iii) supporting civil society and community initiatives for HIV/AIDS 
prevention and care. These initiatives are put forward by beneficiary groups selected on 
the basis of the technical quality and likely impact of their proposals. The project will 
support the implementation of Senegal's strategic plans against HIV/AIDS for the period 
2002-2006 and 2007-2010 (
Plan Multisectoriel de Lutte Contre le SIDA-PMLS
). The 
2002-2006 plan's specific goals aimed to maintain the prevalence level of HIV below 3% 
in the country by 2006; mitigate the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at 
individual, household and community levels; and create an enabling environment for a 
broader and stronger public/private partnership to implement the plan. The 2007-2010 
plan focuses more on vulnerable and high risk groups who will be targeted by behavior 
change communication campaign aimed at increasing the utilization of voluntary 
counseling and testing, prevention of mother to child transmission, as well as 
psychosocial and medical care services. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank's Involvement 
 
The project allows IDA to provide continued support to a successful program and 
promotes Senegal as a flagship of performance to date and herald for future directions in 
sub-Saharan Africa (with MAP II). However, this requires that it build on its successes 
and ensure program sustainability and effectiveness. Senegal so far has done a lot with 
limited resources involving high transaction costs. The project under MAP II 
significantly reduced the costs of coordinating HIV/AIDS financing by applying the 
UNAIDS “Three Ones Principles” – one strategic plan, one coordinating mechanism and 
one monitoring/evaluation system. IDA support is also important as Senegal needs a 
substantial injection of finance to entrench and widen the program, particularly to fill 
existing gaps and finance future directions to strengthen weak 
elements of its program, such as: limited multi-sectoral approach to date under-resourced 
decentralized/community approach to care and prevention weak capacity of both the 
public sector and the civil society need to scale up a number of successful pilot activities 
Taking ART beyond pilot (including testing hypothesis that ART reduces overall 
treatment costs) Financing research in needed areas Fighting ongoing stigma issues 
(homosexuality, workplace treatment of PLWHA)The Bank support complements other 
development partners, including pharmaceutical companies in a joint effort in support of 
the national program of containment and eventual marginalization of the malady. It 
brings to the table substantial financing required to intensify HIV prevention, scale up the 
treatment of AIDS and OIs as well mitigate the socio-economic impact of the disease. 
Page  4
4
Since the Bank has good working knowledge of the other sectors, it can assist in making 
the technical ministries' programs more effective. Finally, by promoting emphasis on 
monitoring and evaluation as well as research and dissemination, it assists Senegal in 
maintaining its all important "success story" - a powerful force for emulation by other 
countries in the sub-region struggling with significantly higher levels of prevalence. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project supports implementation of Senegal's HIV/AIDS strategic plans by a wide 
variety of public sector agencies, private and non-governmental organizations, and by 
community-based organizations. It is planned to cover a five-year period extending from 
2002 to 2006 to coincide with the strategic plan's duration and is be complementary to 
other donors activities. However, the NAC obtained a 30 million grant from The Global 
Fund against HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TB, which resulted in slower disbursement than 
planned and a two-year extension will be needed to disburse remaining funds on 
successful and promising strategies. The project aims at building additional planning, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation capacity of public and private entities and 
expanding existing prevention, treatment and mitigation programs. It is implemented in 
close coordination with other bilateral and multilateral organizations and complements 
their contributions toward implementation of the strategic plan. The project is 
implemented through four major components as follows: A. Strengthening the capacity of 
implementing agencies and coordination structures (US$ 2.0 million) This component is 
designed to reinforce the resource management, implementation and monitoring and 
evaluation capacity of government agencies, civil society and the private sector, and to 
strengthen the capacity of local organizations and rural communities in the design and 
implementation of demand-driven HIV/AIDS activities. The national HIV/AIDS Council, 
its Secretariat and its decentralized structures at the regional and district levels are 
regularly provided with technical, financial and material support to coordinate, monitor 
and evaluate implementation of the national strategic plan. More specifically, capacity-
building support consists of two sub-components: Sub-component one covers the 
provision of technical support services and training to HIV/AIDS units of line ministries, 
NGO and CBO personnel, with an emphasis on project design, participatory planning, 
and monitoring of community-based activities, It also trains laboratory technicians, 
medical and paramedical staff and social workers to strengthen VCT, the prevention of 
mother to child transmission, the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infection and 
tuberculosis and the provision of ART; and Sub-component two consists of the provision 
of technical support services, equipment and materials to implement a comprehensive 
Monitoring &Evaluation plan. The National Executive Secretariat (NES) coordinates and 
ensures implementation of the following M&E components, outsourcing them to 
government and private agencies: (i) surveillance; (ii) epidemiological research; (iii) 
financial monitoring; and (iv) project monitoring. Surveillance comprises biological and 
behavioral surveillance. Biological surveillance is conducted among 6,600 antenatal 
women in 11 sites (Dakar, Kaolack, Saint-Louis, Ziguinchor, Thies, Mbour, Fatick, 
Louga, Diourbel, Kolda and Tambacounda), 300 STI patients in Dakar, 2,400 TB patients 
in 8 regions, 2,400 hospital patients in 8 regions and 2,500 sex workers in 7 regions. 
Behavioral surveillance is conducted among 3,200 sex workers in 10 regions, 10,000 in-
Page  5
5
school youth in 10 regions, 500 apprentices in 10 regions, 1,000 soldiers/policemen in 10 
regions, 1,000 customs/border guards in 6 regions, 1,000 seasonal workers in 3 regions, 
1,000 mobile workers in 5 sites, 1,000 fishermen in Dakar and 1,000 port workers in 
Dakar. Combined biological and behavioral surveillance is conducted in pilot studies of 
mobile populations. Epidemiological research conducts etiology and sensitivity studies, 
track STI/HIV trends and evaluate HIV prevention and care interventions among priority 
groups. Financial and project monitoring focuses on NES's contracting and coordinating 
capacity and the relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public sector and civil 
society services. Operations research examines what is working and disseminate 
important lessons. NES coordinates the above M&E components as follows. Biological 
and behavioural surveillance is coordinated by NES, assisted by the Epidemiology 
Group, the Bacterial-Virological Laboratory and research institutions. Epidemiological 
research is also coordinated by NES, assisted by the Epidemiology Group, the Bacterial-
Virological Laboratory and research institutions. Financial and project monitoring is 
combined and delegated to one agency, for economy and effective financial-project 
cross-verification. Structured reporting and assessment forms and procedures are utilized 
to ensure sound project monitoring. Financial and project monitoring generates verified 
primary data to inform internal and external supervision. The World Bank Washington 
supports operations research, to ensure maximum project cross-learning and 
dissemination. On financial and program management monitoring, Senegal has agreed to 
outsource the projects financial management to a single agency which is also responsible 
for financial and program management monitoring and evaluation. Terms of reference 
were prepared and agreed upon during project preparation and a firm was appointed 
before credit effectiveness. B. Support to civil society and community-based initiatives in 
the area of prevention, care and mitigation (Total Grant US$12.5 million). Using a grant 
mechanism, this component is designed to intensify prevention, care and social support to 
meet the information needs of specific target groups and PLWHA and their families. It 
ensures the continuity and expansion of successful HIV/AIDS mitigation activities 
adapted to local conditions and managed by grassroot organizations and communities. 
The component also promotes and encourages the HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector 
enterprises aimed at developing and implementing prevention, care and support strategies 
designed for their employees and their families. This is done in close coordination and 
complementarily with the recently launched ILO financed project of the Ministry of 
Labor. Funds are channeled directly through grants to associations, religious 
organizations and communities, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based 
organizations to cover a wide range of activities including: (i) prevention and 
sensitization activities targeted to communities as well as specific groups at high risk and 
aimed at building awareness, reducing the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS and the 
adoption of safer sex behavior; (ii) provision of home and community-based care for 
AIDS patients; and (iii) social support to PLWHA, orphaned children and households 
affected by HIV/AIDS through income generation activities and support to local 
caregivers. The Government and grants recipients' responsibilities are be embodied in a 
contractual agreement signed before works start. Eligibility criteria, norms and standards 
for implementation of sub-projects under this grant mechanism are described in a specific 
module of the project operation manual. With regard to activities aimed at helping 
orphaned children, the project finances investments to improve their nutrition, their 
Page  6
6
access to education and health care, as well as their integration into host families and 
communities. Sub-projects proposed by NGOs and CBOs and financed under the IDA 
Credit complements and reinforces ongoing or new initiatives such as the Hope For 
African Children Initiative launched by Care, Plan International, Save the Children, The 
Society for Women Against AIDS in Africa (SOWA) and the World Conference on 
Religion and Peace. The Initiative has received a US$ 10 million grant from the Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation and has been endorsed by UNICEF, the World Bank and 
USAID.C. Support to Governmental Agencies Multi-Sector program (US$ 12.5 million). 
The purpose of this component is to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS activities 
implemented by government entities. Several ministries are in the process of developing 
detailed work plans and budget and are eligible for support under the project as of project 
year one. These are the MOHP, the Ministry of Youth, The Ministry of Interior, the 
Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Technical and Vocational Training, Literacy 
and National languages. Additional ministries would also have access to IDA funds once 
they develop their own plan. Activities under this component cover the full spectrum of 
prevention, treatment, care and support and include: (i) the design, implementation and 
evaluation of information, education and communication (IEC) programs aimed at 
specific audiences and high risk groups of the population such as adolescents (both 
genders) in and out of school, women, youth, and men in uniform; (ii) the promotion and 
distribution of condoms; (iii) the promotion of and access to voluntary HIV counseling 
and testing (VCT) and (iv) ART, PMCT and the prevention and treatment of STIs, other 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis. The IEC program which will be supported 
under this component aims at maintaining people's awareness of HIV/AIDS risks and 
protection measures. It promotes behavior change for safe sex practices and risk 
reduction and advocacy among public and private leaders on human rights protection, 
abolition of discriminatory practices and learning to live with PLWHA. Use of the mass 
media would be an important channel of communication. The component supports the 
use of social marketing for condom promotion and distribution. Peer groups, vending 
machines and other social marketing strategies are also used to make condoms accessible 
to all segments of the adolescent and adult population. Each ministry can choose its 
strategy to make condoms available and accessible to its staff and clients, and visible 
access to condoms in public places is encouraged.  Implementation of MOHP HIV/AIDS 
clinical programs would also be supported under this component. This includes: i) the 
prevention of HIV/AIDS mother to child transmission. The project supports the 
decentralization of MOHP pilot PMCT program to at least one clinical site in each of the 
ten regions of the country during the period 2002-2006. The objective is to achieve a 80% 
level of awareness of mother to child transmission among women 15 to 49 and to reduce 
the transmission rate from 30% to 15%-. 90% of children born to HIV infected mothers 
would be provided the care and treatment at the end of the project. Specific activities 
consist of: a) the progressive creation, training and equipping of multidisciplinary teams 
in each of the ten regions of the country under the supervision of a national team 
composed of leading gynecologists, pediatricians, biologists and social assistants; b) 
implementation of a program of pre-test and post-test counseling and the voluntary 
testing of a target total of 58,000 pregnant women in pre-natal consultations during the 
period 2002-2006; c) expanding access to short regimen treatment using Zidovudine or 
Nevirapine drugs; d) expanding access to antiretrovial treatment therapy in accordance 
Page  7
7
with national standards; e) the development and implementation of specific psycho-social 
support and IEC activities targeted to HIV infected pregnant women covering topics such 
as nutrition, breast feeding practices and the use of milk substitute; and f) the 
establishment of a supervision and monitoring system to ensure effective control and 
quality of implementation of PMCT protocols and guidelines and efficient follow-up and 
monitoring of patients. ii) the diagnosis, treatment and care of HIV/AIDS patients. This 
was be based on the expansion of ISAARV (Senegal Initiative for the Introduction of 
Antiretroviral Therapy) . Launched in 2000 and limited to the city of Dakar during its 
pilot phase, ISAARV was progressively decentralized all the 11 regions of the country. 
Currently 53 treatment sites covering 5500 patients in Decmeber 2006.. To achieve this 
objective, the project strengthened voluntary counseling and confidential testing and 
laboratory capacity to help scale up the diagnosis, treatment and care for HIV/AIDS 
patients. This is part of the MOH's objective to reduce HIV transmission, reduce worker 
disability and improve the quality of life for HIV/AIDS patients. The component also 
supports activities aimed at improving the diagnostic and treatment of sexually 
transmitted diseases, opportunistic infections, and tuberculosis. It contributes as needed, 
to strengthening drug management, patient management (eligibility, clinical and 
biological follow-up) and psycho-social and economic support to PLWHA. Bio-medical 
equipment is purchased to monitor the immunology and virology parameters of HIV 
infection and financing is made available to cover the costs of minor renovations in 
selected laboratory facilities, the procurement of reagents and drugs for the treatment of 
STIs, Opportunistic Infections, TB and other HIV related illnesses. The Government of 
Senegal continues its ARV drugs procurement plan under arrangement with five 
international pharmaceutical companies (Merck, Pfizer, Bristol-Meyers, 
Boehringer/Ingelheim and Roche) as part of the "Access Initiative" of these companies in 
Africa; but also partners with other initiatives aiming at decreasing prices of ARVs, such 
as the Clinton Foundation. Funds under the IDA Credit would also be made available as 
might be needed, to supplement Government financing of ARV drug procurement. D. 
Support to project management and administration (US$ 3.0 million). This component 
provides support to facilitate the programming, coordination, and monitoring of project 
operations, including support to National Aids Council (NAC) and National Executive 
Secretariat (NES) to ensure complementarity and efficient coordination of activities by 
all concerned parties and to consolidate activity plans, budgets and progress reports. The 
component supports the deployment of skilled and experienced manpower to staff 
essential coordinating structures and funds services of a financial management agent, 
technical and financial audits, logistic support to facilitate project supervision and 
reporting, and the organization of CMLS/NES regular meetings and annual project 
reviews.  
 
A. Strengthening capacity of implementing agencies and coordinating structures  
B. Support to civil society and community-based organizations' Initiatives 
C. Support to Govt. Agencies Multi-Sector Programs and Line ministries 
D. Project Management and Administration 
 
5. Financing 
 
Page  8
8
Total ( US$m) 
BORROWER 13.5 
IDA 30 
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION 2.8 
CANADA, GOV. OF 1.5 
FRANCE, GOV. OF 1 
GERMANY, GOV. OF 1.5 
UN UNAIDS 0.5 
UN FUND FOR POPULATION ACTIVITIES 0.8 
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 0.4 
THE GLOBAL FUND AGAINST HIV/AIDS, MALARIA AND TUBERCULOSIS: 30 
Total Project Cost 82 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Institutional arrangements. (i) Project coordination. Overall coordinating responsibility 
for the PMLS is undertaken by the National HIV/AIDS Council (CMLS). The CMLS 
members include representatives from all government ministries, the private sector, an 
observer designated by the group of international donors and representatives of the civil 
society including youth, women, religious groups, PLWHA, NGOs, regional and local 
communities as well as recognized experts in HIV/AIDS that the CMLS may deem 
necessary to call upon for advice (nonvoting). The Prime Minister assumes the chairman 
ship of the CMLS and chair its meetings. The Minister of health assumes its vice-
chairmanship. The number of CMLS members is limited to a maximum of 30 persons. It 
should l meet once every six months or, exceptionally, at the request of its chairperson 
and/or one third of its members. The CMLS is responsible for:(i) advocacy, strategic 
direction and policy coordination to ensure conformity with the PMLS;(ii) mobilization 
of financial, human and physical resources necessary to carry out the PMLS;(iii) 
oversight of the plans for implementation of the PMLS throughout the country;(iv) 
ensuring the legal and ethical aspects of the fight against HIV/AIDS.The CMLS executes 
its mandate through a National Executive Secretariat (NES) that has responsibility for 
overall coordination of the PMLS. The NES is largely representative of all parties to the 
national strategy including the focal persons in each of the key ministries, representatives 
of civil society, the private sector, local communities and vulnerable groups. It meets at 
least every three months. The NES has a permanent core of executive staff including an 
Executive Secretary, an Administrative and Financial Officer, and two Program 
Coordinators. The NES executive secretary is the project director and reports to the 
Minister of Health, as vice-chairperson of CLMS. The NES is responsible for:(i) 
Recording decisions taken during meetings of the CMLS and ensuring their execution;(ii) 
Overseeing the contracts and conventions signed between the financial management 
agency and the implementing agencies, and ensuring their overall execution and quality 
assurance;(iii) Representing the CMLS in meetings with various levels of government 
and other partners; (iv) Ensuring the provision of technical assistance and quality 
assurance to partners involved in the national responses;(v) Ensuring monitoring and 
evaluation of sector and local plans; (vi) Presenting the annual financial statements and 
program reports to the CMLS; (vii) Organizing occasional meetings between all the 
Page  9
9
partners in the program;(viii) Coordination with the Financial Management Agency 
(FMA);(ix) Ensuring overall monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the program. 
The NES coordinates with other IDA funded projects and with HIV/AIDS related 
projects financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The NES meets regularly 
with UNAIDS thematic Group and participates in meetings of HIV/AIDS Donors led by 
UNDP. Some of the functions of NES are carried out at a decentralized level by existing 
regional and departmental HIV/AIDS committees that provide general policy and 
technical guidance to partners operating at regional, departmental and community levels. 
These Committees are composed of representatives of government agencies, municipal 
and communal councils, civil society, the private sector and presided over by a 
coordinator chosen by the members of the Committees. The Regional and Departmental 
Committees: (i) provide technical assistance to implementing agencies; (ii) coordinate 
meetings to synthesize reports on activities in the region; (iii) provide support as needed 
to the FMA; and (iv) ensure the monitoring and evaluation of the response to HIV/AIDS 
at a decentralized level. The Regional and Departmental Committees are physically 
hosted by other organizations in the regions and the NES is responsible for coordinating 
their activities. (ii) Project Implementation. The project finances a series of HIV/AIDS 
action plans presented by line ministries, as well as projects proposed by a large number 
of civil society organizations, including NGOs, women's groups, Associations, unions, 
private enterprises and community-based organizations (CBOs). Line Ministries received 
approximately 40% of project funds. The breakdown between sectors was determined 
during appraisal and the largest allocation was made to the Ministry of Health, because of 
its important role in the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. These funds are 
complemented by contributions from line ministries' budgets, including provision for a 
Focal Point or HIV/AIDS unit that is responsible for policy coordination, monitoring and 
reporting on the sector
’s response to HIV/AIDS. Line ministries implement their 
respective plans through their existing central, regional and departmental units. They 
provide administrative and technical support to their implementation units, including 
relevant guidelines, training and monitoring and evaluation. They also ensure that 
appropriate financial, human and physical resources are channeled to regional and 
departmental governments to enable a decentralized response to HIV/AIDS. A formal 
contract including a work program and budget with agreed input and output indicators 
guide the relationship between line ministries, the NES and the FMA. The NES be 
responsible for providing technical assistance and quality control to line ministries. Civil 
Society receive approximately 40 % of project funds through sub-projects proposed and 
implemented by a variety of organizations. Communities and CBOs organize themselves 
and present their project proposals to the respective regional or departmental committee 
and be responsible for executing their projects. Communities and CBOs may decide to 
enter into contract with a non governmental organization to assist them in the preparation 
and implementation of projects. The cost of such assistance does not exceed 20% of the 
total project cost. Communities contribute in kind to sub-project financing for a minimum 
amount of 5% of total project costs. Other civil society organizations (including NGO, 
religious organizations, associations, unions, and private enterprises) may present sub-
project proposals of a national, regional or departmental scope to be directly financed by 
the project. Eighty percent of total sub-project costs must be directed to activities targeted 
to beneficiaries. Some private sector organizations may also be contracted to implement 
Page  10
10
specific project activities in the areas of research and evaluation or in any other topic as 
deemed necessary. The criteria for eligibility as well as funds allocated to each 
organization are determined according to a set of criteria established for different 
categories of applicants. A roster of over 200 civil society organizations working in 
HIV/AIDS has been established and reflects different categories of NGOs and CBOs, 
classified according to their experience, geographic coverage, target beneficiaries and 
ability to carry out HIV/AIDS projects. The roster is updated to include private sector 
organizations and other associations and was reviewed during appraisal. The project is 
implemented in an incremental manner starting with those line ministries, NGOs and 
CBOs which already have HIV/AIDS work plans and projects. Coverage has been 
extended to other sectors and organizations of the civil society as their implementation 
capacity is strengthened and their work plan and projects prepared. Line ministries and 
their regional and district structures prepare annually, a work plan and budget for each 
fiscal year. Planned activities for the first year of project implementation was reviewed at 
appraisal. The project provides for a mechanism to establish capacity-building 
partnerships between NGOs at different levels, whereby less experienced, smaller NGOs 
work with larger, more experienced NGOs in order to gain technical and project 
management skills as they implement projects under the guidance of the larger NGO. 
National NGOs are required to work in partnership with local NGOs as a criterion for 
eligibility, and are afforded resources to provide such technical assistance. Other 
eligibility criteria for any applicant organization include coherence with the strategic 
directions of the PMLS, experience with HIV/AIDs and Community Development, 
Management Capacity and Community Participation. A project operation manual which 
describes in detail the project's institutional and implementation arrangements, and 
administrative procedures was prepared and reviewed at appraisal and midterm review. 
The manual sets out the functional relationships between the different organs in the 
institutional framework, the criteria and guidelines for allocation of funds including under 
the grant mechanism, as well as accounting norms and reporting requirements for all 
responsible and implementing agencies. External technical and financial audits of the 
project are carried out regularly by the government in order to ensure financial and 
technical compliance and quality control. Financing for the project is mobilized through 
public sector budget contributions (investment and recurrent expenditure), current 
resources committed by bilateral agencies and multilateral organizations and international 
NGOs, and private sector donations. IDA resources through the MAPII Project serve to 
complete the HIV/AIDS program financing plan. In order to ensure a multisectoral and 
local response in the fight against HIV/AIDS, IDA resources are allocated approximately 
in the following manner: 40% of the Project's resources are directed towards the public 
sector and 40% to the civil society and the private sector. 65% of the funds are channeled 
to community level, 15% to the regional level and 20% to the national level.15% of the 
total credit goes towards project management, including the fee of the financial 
management agency, independent financial and technical auditors, operating costs of the 
National Secretariat and administrative support to the Regional and Departmental 
Committees. (iii) Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation. It is proposed that 
surveillance and epidemiological research should be managed by the HIV/AIDS unit of 
the MPOH, assisted by the Epidemiology Group, the Bacterial-Virological Laboratory, 
and research institutions. Financial and program management monitoring are combined 
Page  11
11
and delegated to one agency, for effective financial program cross-verification. 
Structured reporting and assessment forms and procedures are developed to ensure sound 
program monitoring. Financial and program monitoring generate verified primary data to 
inform internal and external supervision. Line ministries and other implementing 
agencies supervise their own activities at all levels within their respective sector 
mandates. They provide the NES and FMA information on a number of agreed upon 
variables on a quarterly basis. Regional and departmental HIV/AIDS committees 
representing each sector and incorporating community based and civil society 
organizations supervise project activities at departmental and community levels. Analyses 
are conducted by the FMA to assess the performance of community based organizations 
and other civil society entities as needed. The executive secretariat core team also 
supervises overall project implementation and assesses effectiveness and efficiency of 
implementation at central, regional and departmental levels, working in close 
collaboration with the FMA under its defined terms of reference for program 
management monitoring. The NES core team consolidates progress reports, organizes 
regular meetings of NES members to discuss progress of each type of implementing 
agency. It organizes the annual project reviews, the mid-term review and the project 
completion review to assess the performance of the project, its components and its 
contribution to the national strategic goal of reducing the spread and impact of 
HIV/AIDS. The project's annual stakeholders meetings form the basis for the next year 
annual work program and budget. The draft project operational manual and Annex 4 to 
the PAD provides a detailed description of the project monitoring, institutional and 
implementation arrangements and was reviewed during appraisal and at midterm review. 
(iv) Procurement procedures. Line ministries procure works, goods and services in 
relation to the respective activities in accordance with the Bank's 
“Guidelines: 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Grants” dated May 2004; in particular sections 
related to Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms, 
organizations or individuals financed by IDA are contracted in accordance with the 
Bank's “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank’s 
Recipients” dated May 2004. The Government contract with the “
Pharmacie Nationale 
d'Approvisionnement (PNA
)» a public autonomous drug procurement agency to carry out 
the procurement of large items and packages such as diagnostic kits and reagents and 
pharmaceutical products and drugs for the diagnosis and clinical management of 
HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted infections and other opportunistic infections including 
Tuberculosis. Other United Nations Organizations' procurement agents may be 
contracted for the procurement of specific items such as condoms. Communities use the 
Bank's Simplified Procurement and Disbursement procedures for Community based 
Investments to procure goods and services needed to implement their respective 
HIV/AIDS initiatives. Since each sub-project costs would be modest, local shopping be a 
standard procurement method. To facilitate speedy import of items valued at less than 
US$100,000 equivalent, required urgently for diagnosis and treatment and institutional 
strengthening, contracts may be made based on international shopping and national 
shopping procedures, respectively or through procurement from the United Nations. The 
project procurement and disbursement arrangements were reviewed with the Borrower 
and finalized during appraisal and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual and in 
annex 6 of this report. (v) Financial management and disbursement. Financial 
Page  12
12
management of the project and the monitoring and evaluation of program management is  
contracted to a private sector financial management agent selected on a competitive basis. 
This is in line with MAP best practice to ensure the most rapid, flexible and efficient 
mobilization of resources to the beneficiaries of the project. As part of its contract with 
the Government, the FMA is required to develop a fully integrated financial and 
accounting system using appropriate software as well as a detailed manual of financial 
procedures and chart of accounts including the format, content and periodicity of the 
various financial statements to be produced. The FMA has also been required to set an 
appropriate financial and accounting system at regional and departmental levels. Transfer 
of funds to line ministries, NGOS, CBOs and private sector organizations and 
mechanisms for tranche releases and the scaling up of successful projects is made by the 
FMA in accordance with eligibility standards and implementation procedures as 
described in the project operation manual and guidelines. For each category of applicants, 
there are clear eligibility criteria, thresholds as well as requirements for contributions, 
depending on size, experience and sector. Applications are made directly to the FMA and 
disbursements processed, with no ex ante veto by other bodies (the NES is automatically 
be copied with each application). For all applicants, no more than 20%
 
of
any funding 
can be used for overheads. The terms of reference of the FMA were reviewed and agreed 
to by IDA at pre-appraisal and a firm was appointed before credit effectiveness. The 
objective is to put in place sound financial management and output monitoring systems 
and to introduce the World Bank Financial Management Initiative to administer the 
credit. However, in its initial phase, the project is operating under traditional 
disbursement procedures until its financial management is deemed satisfactory by IDA to 
fulfill the requirements of PMR-based disbursement. Government opened a special 
account at a commercial bank and all disbursements are fully documented at the time of 
submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against Statement 
of Expenditures (SOE). A plan of action is established at appraisal in order to make the 
project ready for PMR-based disbursement within 18 months of Credit Effectiveness. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project is built upon the established partnership between Government and the civil 
society, their past and current collaboration in various social sector projects and their 
strong ownership of the national multi-sector plan against HIV/AIDS. The project 
expands and intensifies existing programs by mainstreaming prevention care and support 
activities of several line ministries and the civil society and by tapping and reinforcing 
community resources and community organizations' potential for mobilization. The 
government policy of decentralization and the project's emphasis on capacity building at 
all levels of project implementation would also enhance sustainability. 
 
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector 
 
The National Forum on HIV/AIDS held in December 2000 and joint reviews organized 
in 2005 clearly identified the successes and failures of the national program in place since 
1986, drawing lessons for project design. Findings from the evaluation of MAP I as well 
as from other countries' experiences were also incorporated into project design. Lessons 
Page  13
13
include: (i) 
Political leadership and commitment is key to success
:
political 
"champions" are key to mobilizing national and donor resources for the fight against the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Government of Senegal has been a model of early, high level 
leadership given its firm commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS. The Government 
recognizes the social as well as the economic imperatives to keep a very low HIV/AIDS 
prevalence and therefore is committed to supporting a sustained program and is now 
establishing a multisectoral national commission (CMLS) chaired by the Prime Minister; 
(ii)
 Need for a multi-sectoral approach and community participation
:
experience in 
many countries demonstrates the fact that the health sector alone is not capable of 
winning the war against AIDS on a sustained basis. There is need for a multi-sectoral 
approach involving key ministries in government at all levels, the private sector and the 
non- government/community sector. For the Senegal MAP, a multisectoral team - 
including civil society representatives - was involved in project design from the 
beginning. At the same time, the role of the Ministry of Health is recognized as pivotal, 
particularly with respect to treatment of STIs, OIs, provision of ART, MTCT treatment, 
VCT, blood transfusion services, procurement, epidemiological surveillance and general 
health-related technical training and oversight; (iii
)
Contracting out of financial 
management and procurement
 improves implementation and can make “the money 
work”
:
lessons from MAPs to date indicate the importance of contracting out financial 
management in order to maximize effective and rapid access to funds by the various 
stakeholders, particularly to those that are community-based. Eligibility criteria must also 
be made clear and transparent to all potential implementing agencies. In particular, high 
priority must be put on financing "software" rather than "hardware" - funding people 
directly involved in HIV/AIDS activities rather than equipment and civil works. In the 
Senegal project, all financial management is contracted out to a private sector financial 
management agency (FMA) and no major civil work program is envisioned. The FMA is 
responsible for disbursements to all applicants from the civil society and the private 
sector as well as government ministries to implement their sector plans. The Government 
has also agreed that M&E of program management be contracted to the same agency or 
to other research organizations as may be deemed; (iv) 
Need to put in place financing 
and capacity building mechanisms for civil society
:
In order to ensure a widespread, 
sustained and cost-effective response to the disease, it is imperative that the community 
take primary responsibility for prevention and care of orphans and PLWHA. A lot has 
been learned with regard to the mobilizing and financing of community based initiatives 
over the last few decades. Senegal already has a highly active civil society with over 200 
NGOs involved in HIV/AIDS and 300 women's groups. In the Senegal MAP, at least 
50% of project funds are directed to civil society; (v) 
Need for strengthening capacity 
of implementing agencies
:
based on past experience, greater priority needs to be given 
to enhancing the capacity of institutions in program management, procurement, financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation. In Senegal, Project Component 1 provides 
significant capacity building for implementing agencies, the NES and regional and 
community equivalents. At the technical level, training of health personnel in both the 
technical and psycho-social dimensions of HIV/AIDS forms a key subcomponent of the 
project; (vi) 
Importance of monitoring and evaluation
:
monitoring and evaluation of 
project activities is important for assessing progress and the impact of interventions as 
well as identifying corrective measures in the course of implementation. The HIV/AIDS 
Page  14
14
surveillance systems need to be strengthened for effective monitoring and evaluation of 
the trends of the HIV/AIDS epidemic so as to identify areas that need to be tackled for 
the greatest impact. Senegal has a developed M&E surveillance system that has provided 
critical data for identifying high risk groups and tracking PLWHA. The MOHP is 
reinforcing its second generation surveillance system by expanding it to all regions 
during the Project. In addition to the program monitoring role of the multisectoral NES 
and regional and local equivalents, there has been an independent performance review 
and audit of the NES and financial management agency. The civil society is involved in 
M&E through its roles in the CMLS, NES and regional/community equivalents, but it lso 
participates in the annual supervision missions; (vii) 
Importance of clarifying roles
:
It 
has been very important to delineate the roles of different agencies. Experience from 
other countries has demonstrated that the central organs can be easily rendered ineffective 
and overly bureaucratic if their roles are not clearly defined, including their functions in 
relation to other key players. In Senegal, clear terms of reference for the CMLS, the NES 
and the regional and community equivalents are fully developed and regularly reviewed 
in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP); (viii) 
Addressing vulnerability factors and 
targeting high risk groups are key to future success
:
The HIV/AIDS epidemic is 
driven by underlying vulnerability factors among populations and high risk groups. The 
combination of poverty, illiteracy and gender disparities exacerbate exposure to the virus. 
For this reason, the project targets these groups with differential information geared to 
behavior change and also pilots some income-generating activities. It also supports 
efforts to reduce stigmatization of PLWHA and homosexuality, in order to bring these in 
line with Senegal's progressive approach to CSW. This project specifically focuses on 
vulnerable groups, including youth (in and out of school), women, workers, CSW, armed 
forces, PLWHA, prisoners and others; (ix) 
Good donor coordination is necessary
:
this 
can significantly reduce the government's transaction costs for management of externally 
funded programs. Common arrangements for program reviews, monitoring and 
evaluation, planning of financial and technical assistance, support missions, funding of 
programs or program components are all areas pursued in close cooperation with 
UNAIDS and other cooperating partners. The UNAIDS (WHO) representative has been 
part of the project design team and the project benefits from the strong donor 
coordination and complementarity that exists already in Senegal. Other donors , such as 
The Global Fund choose to utilize the same FMA as IDA, as a vehicle for channeling 
their funds to Senegal's National Program. 
 
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) Y 
 
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation) 
 
Issues The project is not expected to generate major adverse environmental issues. 
However, there are risks attached to the handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected 
materials. These risks potentially affect: personnel in hospitals, health centers and 
municipalities who handle waste, families whose income is derived from the triage of 
waste and also the general public to the extent that waste is not disposed of on site or 
safely contained in protected areas. A medical waste management plan was be prepared 
by the Government nd is being implemented. Institutional arrangements and the cost of 
Page  15
15
its execution are made clear in the PAD as well as the DCA. The plan includes the proper 
disposal of hazardous bio-medical waste, a bio-safety training program for the staff of all 
hospital, health center and community-based programs, including traditional midwives 
and practitioners, who may be involved in testing and treatment. The training program 
will include specific instruction on the triage, transport and disposal of waste. In addition 
the project implementation manual includes guidelines to ensure that environmental 
considerations are taken into account in the selection and design of project activities. 
With the assistance of the Africa Safeguard Policy Enhancement Team (ASPEN), TORs 
have been prepared for such a plan which was reviewed by the Bank prior to credit 
effectiveness. The task team organized a presentation on medical waste management 
attended by members of the Senegalese project preparation team and a follow-up 
workshops are regularly organized in coordination with the MOH HIV/AIDS Division. 
Safeguard advice is regularly provided by a member of the ASPEN team. 
 
11. Contact Point: 
 
Task Team Leader 
Aissatou DIACK 
The World Bank 
3, Place de l’Indépendance  
Immeuble SDIH, 5 étage 
BP 3296, Dakar, Sénégal 
Telephone: 221 849-50-00 
Fax: 221 849-50-27 
 
12. For information on other project related documents contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may be updated 
throughout the life of the final project. 
 
This revised PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2007
 
