Document of
The World Bank
FIL  OPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3506-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$38 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
March 30, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Po,
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)     US$1.43
1 US Dollar (US$)      =  LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
I Egyptian Pound (LE)     US$1.20
1 US Dollar (US$)      =  LE 0.84
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
ILO        -    International Labor Organization
ITI        -    Instructor Training Institute
MDHLR      -    Ministry of Development, Housing and Land
Reclamation
MOE        -    Ministry of Education
MOIMR      -    Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
PVTD       -    Productivity and Vocational Training Department of
the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
TOMOHAR    -    Training Organization of the Ministry cc
Development, Housing and Land Reclamation
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
VTC        -    Vocational Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:             Ministry of Development, Housing & Land
Reclamation (MDHLR)
Ministry of Industry & Mineral Resources (MOIMR)
Amount:                    US$38 million equivalent, including capitalized
front end fee.
Terms:                     20 years including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:               The project would support the Government's
efforts to increase the supply and upgrade the
quality of skilled and semi-skilled manpower in
order to alleviate acute shortages in two key
sectors, construction and industry. It would
(i) for construction trades: establish 22 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), and equip a
new production center for training materials;
(ii) for industrial trades: establish one new
VTC, extend and/or re-equip five existing VTCs
and an instructor training institute; and (iii)
provide technical assistance and training to
improve training curricula and materials,
upgrade instructors' skills, and strengthen the
capabilities of MDHLR and MOIMR to plan, manage
and evaluate vocational training programs. The
project would provide lower income groups with
opportunities to acquire skills which would make
them competitive in the job market. There are
no major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Costs: 1/
Local    Foreign    Total
---… US$ Milion-------
22 Training Centers (MDHLR)                       15.4       15.9       31.3
6 Training Centers (MOIMR)                         2.7        7.4       10.1
1 Instructor Training Institute (MOIMR)            0.6        2.1        2.7
1 Training Materials Center (MDHLR)                0.1        0.5        0.6
Fellowships                                        0.3        1.1        1.4
Technical Assistance                               0.7        2.6        3.3
Base Costs                                        19.8       29.6       49.4
Physical Contingencies                             1.9        2.8        4.7
Price Contingencies                               14.8       10.1       24.9
Total Project Costs                               36.5       42.5       79.0
Front End Fee                                       -         0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required                          36.5       42.8       79.3
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ Million-------
Bank                                               -         38.0       38.0
Government                                        36.5        4.8       41.3
Total                                                  36.5      42.8       79.3
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY         84   85   86    87    88    89    90    91
----------------US$ Million---------------
Annual        0.6  4.0   8.5  13.5   8.2   2.4   0.7   0.1
Cumulative   0.6  4.6  13.1  26.6  34.8  37.2  37.9  38.0
Rate of Return:       Not quantifiable
Appraisal Report:    No.4155-EGT, Dated March 23, 1983
1/ Net of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$38 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Vocational Training project. The
proposed loan would be repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I. An economic mission visited Egypt in
January 1983 and its report is currently being prepared.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralist economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new
"Open Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development
by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was progress
towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic expansion
and greater prosperity.
4.       Throughout the second half of the 1970s, external circumstances and
domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the economy. The
emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial exportable surplus,
large flows of workers' remittances, the successful reopening of the Suez
Canal and the growth of the tourism industry, complemented by substantial
long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to reduce considerably the stringent
resource shortages of the early 1970s. Egypt entered the 1980s with a much
stronger resource base; but the needs of the rapidly growing population
remained and are still immense. At present, 43 million people have only about
39,000 km2 of usable land. While Egypt's population has doubled in the last
three decades, the cultivated area has increased by less than 5%. Moreover,
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Second Agroindustries Project (P-3426-EGT) dated February 8, 1983.



the physical and social infrastructure of the country has suffered from long
years of insufficient investment, inadequate maintenance and the effects of
war. Low productivity and underemployment affect many parts of the economy
and the consumption capacity of the poor has improved only marginally.
Maintaining rapid growth will require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming
these constraints. In particular, continued progress depends crucially on:
(i) the mobilization of large national and foreign resources to finance high
levels of investment; (ii) substantial increases in the productivity of
capital and labor based on institutional reforms and effective investment
planning; and (iii) an equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits
associated with economic growth.
5.       After taking office in October of 1981, President Mubarak expressed
his firm intention to accord top priority to economic issues. The outward-
looking "Open Door" strategy favorable to foreign investment will be
maintained. The process of liberalization is to be complemented, however,
by increased emphasis on population and human resource planning, the
rationalization of consumption with a view to ensuring greater social equity,
and a more comprehensive process of investment planning designed to economize
resources and channel a greater share of investment into the productive
sectors in order to foster increased productivity and employment. These are
some of the key conclusions emerging from a special economic conference
convened by the President in February 1982. The Government has been working
toward an economic program aimed at achieving these objectives and meeting the
difficult challenges that lie ahead.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1980, and (ii) starting in the summer
of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shortages triggered by the decline
in oil prices and an apparent slowdown in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall GDP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (1980/81) prices.l/ This very high growth rate reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade, finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth
remained very modest at around 2.2%. Egypt's severe land constraint makes
rapid agricultural growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000
barrels per day (bId) (30 million tons a year), compared to 220,000 b/d in
1975 and 420,000 b/d in 1977, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of
partner companies' shares) reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very
rapid growth in output coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world
market, leading to large increases in export revenues, from US$289 million in
1975 to US$4.4 billion in 1980/81.
1/ In 1980 the Government of Egypt changed its fiscal year from January-
-December to July-June, with a consequent change in data series.



9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching US$2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1975 and US$897 million in 1977. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism
revenues reached US$663 million and US$775 million respectively, compared to
US$85 million and US$322 million in 1975. As a result, and despite large
increases in imports (US$8.1 billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in
1975), the current account deficit narrowed to less than 7.4% of GDP (US$1.6
billion) in 1980, compared to 18.8% in 1975.
10.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations. The overall public sector resource gap which was 29% of GDP in
1975, narrowed to 17% in 1977, widened to 27% in 1979, before declining again
*         to 18% in 1980/81.  At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal policy
concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy, and
resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line with world prices, price rigidity did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply problems in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and agriculture. Effective demand,
especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains
that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts. All
these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices. In a
country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no
easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and
salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact surge upward.
However, in the controlled sector, which still dominates the economy, although
some small price increases were allowed for, major adjustments could not be
achieved. Therefore, the gap between world prices and domestic selling prices
of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large implicit and
explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of
relative prices and incentives.
11.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive. To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not have full or even
partial control.  In the summer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined from the US$40/
barrel peak reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$32 by March of 1982 and
US$27 by early 1983. The heavier crudes also declined in price: compared to
fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported showed a 10.5% decline in
value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in oil
export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels achieved in
1980/81. Finally, Suez Canal revenues that had been expected to increase



-4-
substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, have failed to show
significant growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international
oil market as well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of
trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. The impact of the export shortfall on the current
account deficit was to some extent contained because of the decline in prices
for food imports, the reduction in non-food imports through tighter import
restrictions and a cutback in investment spending.  Nevertheless, the current
account deficit widened from US$2.3 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.3 billion in
1981/82. The bulk of this deficit was covered by medium- and long-term
capital inflows, although the deterioration in the overall balance has
required some recourse to short-term borrowing. Similar difficulties are
affecting the fiscal situation. The overall public sector resource gap
widened to 23% of GDP in 1981/82 (from 18% in 1980/81). As a result, there
has been a large increase in domestic bank financing of the budget, from about
LE 450 million in 1980/81 to about LE 2.2 billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by
rapid expansion of credit to the private sector, this financing has led to a
marked acceleration in monetary growth, with money supply (excluding foreign
currency deposits) increasing at a rate close to 40% per annum, thus creating
additional inflationary pressures.
13.      So far, the primary policy response to the deteriorating trend has
been a tightening of imports and credit, and an apparent slowdown in
investment spending. Largely because of these short-term measures, the
deteriorating trend in the balance of payments has stabilized, and the current
account deficit is expected to be somewhat lower in fiscal year 1982/83 than
in the preceding year. The budget deficit is, however, expected to remain
large at about 20% of GDP. Moreover, although Egypt has recorded a very high
rate of growth in recent years (around 8% per annum), the tight credit and
import controls are now beginning to have an impact on the pace of economic
activity and growth.
14.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy. The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in Suez Canal traffic, could help
strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances. Nonetheless,
while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural problems remain
a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the country is to
sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for its people.



- 5-
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physical infrastructure.  The expansion of new capacities has been slowed by
administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labor
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
only 1% of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
17.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's
population is already very large for its limited usable land area, with an
average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than that of Bangladesh or
Indonesia. Recent census results show that the population has continued to
grow rapidly, adding over one million people every year. Moreover, almost
half of this increase is concentrated in the Greater Cairo area. This
continues to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. Although the Government
has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take considerable
time and further steps to achieve measurable results.
18.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty are no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious distortions.



- 6 -
19.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank on all these important
issues. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members of the
Consultative Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done in trying to
formulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner. Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed in 1982/83 is estimated at about US$15.5 billion. Bilateral
loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares of
multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total disbursed debt. Despite the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to an estimated US$15.5 billion in 1982/83--the
debt service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to 15% in 1979 and rose to only
21% in 1981/82.
21.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but should remain manageable in the 20-25% range. Over the longer term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT V
22.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-fourth lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to US$2665.1
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, energy, water supply, family planning,
transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberately broad
multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to
the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to
address these issues and implement the programs.
24.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government
looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of the
economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, and
generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone
beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization (two imports
loans/credit) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential
commodities in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at
introducing policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank
has financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Bank has carried out a study on small-scale industries. The Bank has also
assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/
contracting industry (one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry
today). The Bank proposes to support the Government's efforts in carrying out
the recommendations of these studies. Finally, the Bank is discussing with
the Government a study on Trade Strategy and Investment Planning which focuses
on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment program in the
context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
1/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Second Agroindustries Project (P-3426-EGT)
dated February 8, 1983.



25.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the Bank's intervention in
one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that it has adopted
in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a
role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes but is
welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appropriate
function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group. Preparation
of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and the pipeline
includes projects in vocational training, gas development, urban development,
transportation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
26.      Bank Group disbursements in FY82 represented 5% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt:
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1982. In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0% and
3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6% and 0.2%, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. Reflecting the increased level
of commitments and delays in the initiation of some of the projects, loan
disbursements slowed down in FY82. (In FY82 the disbursement percentage rate
was 16.5%; the EMENA Regional average was 19.3%.) As project execution
accelerates, loan disbursements should improve gradually.
27.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
US$83 million and include a ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a
project for an agricultural complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry
project, a fish farming project, a building material project, and a tourism
project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.
PART III - MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
The Industrial and Construction Sectors
28.      Egyptian industry has a large potential for growth given its
proximity to promising markets in Europe and the Middle East and a large and
rapidly growing domestic market. Since the possibilities for agricultural
development are limited, and the service sector is already overstaffed, the
Government looks to industry to provide stimulus to growth through continued
expansion, efficient import substitution, and increased exports, as well as to
absorb the growing labor force. Starting in 1974, the performance of industry
has improved considerably and the sector's output has grown at an average rate
of about 8% annually during 1974-81. In FY81 industry accounted for about 15%
of GDP, was responsible for 13% of commodity exports, and employed about 1.5
million people or nearly 13% of the domestic workforce. In order for Egypt's
industry to play a more dynamic role and thus provide the momentum for
sustained economic growth, it will be necessary to overcome several existing
constraints, prominent among which is an inadequate supply of skilled
manpower. The development of an efficient vocational training system to



complement an industrialization strategy is, therefore, an essential
ingredient for the growth of Egypt's economy.
29.      The construction sector is also vital to the Egyptian economy.  The
development of virtually all sectors including industry, power, transporta-
tion, and in a period of rapid urbanization, housing, is affected by the
capability of the construction sector. And the performance of the sector in
the 1970s has been an impediment to the achievement of the Government's
development goals. As in the case of industry, a sizeable shortage of skilled
manpower is among the key constraints faced by the sector; therefore, there is
an immediate need to rapidly build up a supply of well-trained construction
workers and simultaneously work towards creating a strong cadre of
construction management personnel.
30.      The 1982/83-86/87 Plan includes growth targets averaging about 10%
annually for industry and about 7% annually for construction. This growth,
which will yield an important benefit to Egypt's rapidly growing labor force
by significantly increasing opportunities for productive employment, depends
to a large extent upon the rapid expansion and upgrading of vocational
training programs.
Skilled Manpower Shortages
31.      The stepping up of economic activity since the early 1970s coupled
with an accelerated pace of labor migration has led to severe shortages of
skilled manpower. Equally serious is the low skill profile of the existing
labor force. The underlying cause is the low level of investment for training
prior to the early 1970s, which resulted in insufficient and poor quality
physical facilities, teaching materials and teachers.
32.      Since 1974, the Government has increased investments in the education
and training sector considerably. As a result, an improved picture is
emerging and the gap between demand and supply is gradually narrowing
(although the quality is still deficient). For example, Bank estimates based
on Government data suggest that inclusive of the output from the proposed
project, about 85% and 60% of the demand for construction and industrial
workers respectively will be met by 1992. However, there are still several
difficulties. First, higher education continues to receive disproportionately
high allocations in the investment budget for the education and training
sector. The demand for this type of education is probably influenced by the
Government's policy of guaranteeing employment to university graduates
combined with an open admission policy for higher education. Changes in these
policies would improve sector performance considerably, but because of
political sensitivities, there is no expectation of change for the time
being. Second, although labor emigration has eased unemployment and is
generating substantial foreign exchange, it has created a skill drain
particularly in the industrial and construction sectors. Third, in attempting
to achieve the twin objectives of preparing students for job entry and for the
next level of education, the Ministry of Education (MOE) has been unable to
provide school leavers with the practical proficiency required for the skilled
worker level. Fourth, the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources (MOIMR),
which is the only other major source for supply of skilled industrial labor,



- 10 -
has a limited capacity, which will take time and significant effort to build
up. Finally, given the magnitude of the problem, the Government has
concentrated its efforts on increasing the overall supply levels and has not
as yet been able to attend adequately to the skill upgrading needs of the
existing work force.
Industrial and Construction Trades Training
33.      In a situation of severe and continuing shortages of skilled
manpower, the Government is relying, justifiably, on a variety of vocational
training modes to utilize the potential of both the formal and non-formal
systems to the extent possible. Currently, training for skilled and
semi-skilled industrial workers is provided at vocational training centers
under MOIMR and technical secondary schools under MOE, and that for
construction workers at Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation
(MDHLR) training centers.
34.      Since its establishment with ILO assistance in 1957, the Productivity
and Vocational Training Department (PVTD) of MOIMR has become a main source
for the supply of skilled industrial manpower to the large public enterprises
which dominate the industrial sector (employing some 60% of total
manufacturing labor), as well as to the private sector. Through its network
of vocational training centers (VTCs) established or upgraded with Bank
assistance, in-plant training centers and an instructor training institute,
PVTD offers training in 72 specialized fields within 15 broad trade areas.
These are: metalwork, electrical work, electronics, automotive, mining,
metallurgy, maintenance, heat treatment, printing, precision mechanics,
textiles, chemicals, air conditioning and refrigeration, leather, and glass
processing. Today over 90% of PVTD's trainees (after completing preparatory
schooling) attend its three-year apprenticeship program, and the remainder
avail themselves of accelerated and upgrading courses offered by PVTD. In
order to make its training system more responsive to current industrial needs,
PVTD has delineated the country into ten regions and has established a
regional consultative council in each region consisting of PVTD staff and
representatives of employers and educators.
35.      In attempting to meet some of the demand for skilled and semi-skilled
labor, MOE has increased enrollments in its three-year secondary technical
schools (grades 10-12). However, because the quality of instruction provided
is inadequate, graduates lack the level of skills needed for effective entry
into the job market.
36.      The training organization (TOMOHAR) of the Ministry of Development,
Housing and Land Reclamation is responsible for the manpower needs of the
entire construction sector. Through its network of 42 VTCs and three
instructor training centers being established with Bank assistance, TOMOHAR
offers mainly a six-month training course (two months of which consist of
supervised on-the-job training) in 10 trades. These are: masonry, tiling,
plastering, steel reinforcement, formwork, carpentry, painting, plumbing,
metalwork and electrical work.



- 11 -
37.      The effectiveness of the training agencies is limited by a variety of
constraints. A chronic deficit of instructors has adversely affected the
quality of training provided. In addition, the qualifications of the
instructors need improvement. Underlying causes for these inadequacies
include large wage differentials between the civil service and the private
sector, making instructors' jobs uncompetitive, an overemphasis on theoretical
instruction in the education system, a lack of suitable materials and
equipment, and an inadequate instructor training curriculum. To make
employment prospects more attractive, MDHLR has introduced a system of
financial incentives, and MOIMR is preparing to follow suit. Both ministries
are also looking into other alternatives to increase staff, including the use
of part-time instructors from industry. With Bank assistance, MDHLR has
established three instructor training centers under the First Education
Project to augment the supply of instructors for construction trades. As a
result, MDHLR would meet all but 5% of the demand by 1992. The proposed
project includes a comprehensive package of financial and technical assistance
for MOIMR which would effectively reduce the gap between the demand for and
supply of instructors from 60% to 30% by 1992.
38.      Equipment, materials and curricula in vocational training centers and
instructor training centers, which are indispensable for effective vocational
training, have not kept pace with enrollments and technological change. This
compounds the difficulties of providing good quality practical instruction and
leaves graduates ill-equipped to perform effectively. Substantial amounts of
existing equipment dating back to the 1950s have outlived their useful lives
and need replacing urgently. Similarly, training materials and curricula need
updating on a continuing basis. These needs have been incorporated into the
design of Bank financed projects, which include provisions for re-equipping
and adding new equipment to training centers, and updating materials and
curricula with expert assistance as necessary.
39.      With the help of agencies such as USAID, ILO and the Bank, the
Government has for some time been attempting to address the difficult task of
manpower planning to try to achieve a better balance between demand and
supply. Efforts have been hampered by the rapidity of economic and social
change, a general lack of functional data, and insufficient coordination
between agencies. The Government has recently set up a task force to look
into the issue and try to identify viable solutions.
40.      The overlap in the functions of the various agencies providing
training and the need for coordination among them are two of the most
difficult and complex issues in the sector. Recognizing this, in 1981 the
Government created a Central Committee for Orientation and Supervision,
chaired by the Minister of Education with representation from relevant facets
of the economy. MOIMR is guided by a Consultative Council for Training in
Industry comprising representatives of the Government and public and private
sector industries. While these changes constitute some progress, additional
efforts are needed to improve coordination further.



- 12 -
Government's Strategy and Educational Finance
41.      The main theme of the Government's education and training strategy in
the 1982/83-86/87 Plan is the rapid development of skilled manpower to meet
the economy's needs. Emphasis is to be placed on: distributing training
opportunities equitably with special attention to the needs of the regions;
correcting the imbalance between the demand for and supply of manpower with a
focus on industrial training; improving the quality and relevance of the
skills of the new and existing labor force; and strengthening the
institutional base for manpower development.
42.      Education accounted for about 4.5% of total Government expenditure in
1981, with recurrent education expenditure representing 11% of the total
recurrent expenditure, and capital expenditure 2.7% of the corresponding
total.  Total Government expenditure on education for the 1975-80 period was
about 3.1% of GDP, which is slightly low compared with other countries in the
region at the same level of development. Within the education and training
sector, although the budgetary allocations for general secondary and
university education continue to be disproportionately high, there is an
increasing emphasis on vocational training. For example, during 1975-81,
MOIMR's capital expenditures increased by 59% annually and recurrent
expenditures by 17%. Similarly, MDHLR's capital and recurrent expenditures
show annual increases averaging 40% and 23% respectively during 1978-82.
Projected increases in capital and recurrent budgets during the next five
years average 25% and 22% annually for MOIMR and 24% and 29% annually for
MDHLR.
The Bank's Role
43.      The Bank's support for education and training in Egypt has been
consistent with the Government's priorities, prime among which are the
establishment of a stock of skilled manpower, a better balance between the
demand for labor and its supply, and equity in the distribution of
opportunities.
44.      In support of the sector the Bank has lent a total of US$105 million
for three projects. The main focus of these projects is to expand and upgrade
the training of managers, technicians, and skilled and semi-skilled workers in
industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial trades; improve and
expand teacher and instructor training in selected areas; achieve modest
improvements in education and manpower planning; and provide limited support
for health education. The project completion mission for the recently
completed first project has concluded that the project succeeded in achieving
its main objectives.  Enrollments and annual outputs of project institutions
are expected to meet project targets by 1984. The studies on education and
manpower planning did not, however, result in improved manpower planning.
Accordingly, a more focussed effort in this area is planned for MDHLR and
MOIMR in the proposed project. The second and third projects are ongoing, and
the overall progress is good.



- 13 -
45.      In view of Egypt's continuing need to prepare manpower to carry out
the high levels of investment planned, the Bank proposes to build upon the
ongoing support for the vocational training programs in priority sectors.
Construction and industry would be emphasized and special efforts would be
made to ensure that training programs support the Government's objective of
achieving a more balanced regional distribution of industry. Separately,
assistance planned for the construction sector will help develop a strong
management cadre. Over the years, a good rapport has been established between
Bank staff and the agencies responsible for training which should facilitate
continuing cooperation in the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.      The project was identified and prepared with the assistance of Bank
missions in December 1981 and February 1982. Appraisal took place in June
1982 and negotiations were held in Washington from March 2 to March 8, 1983.
The Government's delegation was led by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior
Undersecretary in the Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Vocational Training Project" (No. 4155-EGT)
dated March 23, 1983 is being distributed separately. The main features of
the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.      The main objective of the proposed project is to increase the pool of
skilled manpower in order to alleviate acute shortages in two key sectors,
construction and industry, which are essential for Egypt's continuing
development. The project also aims to improve the quality of training
programs for construction and industrial trades, update their content to make
the labor force technically more competent, strengthen vocational instructor
training, improve the capabilities of participating ministries to plan, manage
and evaluate vocational training programs, and provide low-income groups with
a means to acquire skills which would make them competitive in the job market.
Project Description
48.      To achieve these objectives, the project would (i) for construction
trades: establish 22 new vocational training centers (VTCs), and equip a new
production center for training materials; and (ii) for industrial trades:
establish one new VTC, and extend and/or re-equip five existing VTCs and an
instructor training institute. The project would also provide technical
assistance and training for several purposes: to develop new and improve
existing curricula and training materials, upgrade the technical and teaching
skills of instructors, improve the organizational and managerial skills of VTC
directors, upgrade the skills of maintenance staff, and enable the training
departments of participating ministries to better plan, manage and evaluate
training programs.
Construction Trades Training
49.      The training organization (TOMOHAR) of the Ministry of Development,
Housing and Land Reclamation (MDHLR) would add 22 new VTCs to the 43 VTCs



- 14 -
established under earlier Bank financed projects, thus completing their
planned target of a nationwide network of 65 VTCs for the five year period
1982-86. Although the future demand for skilled and semi-skilled construction
workers is difficult to assess accurately, the 65 VTCs are estimated to meet
some 85% of the annual demand by 1992. The 22 VTCs to be built and equipped
under this project would train 18,000 students annually in ten construction
trades: carpentry, masonry, painting, tiling, plastering, plumbing, formwork,
metalwork, electrical work and steel reinforcement. Over time, as the supply
of graduates begins to meet the sector's immediate needs for manpower with
basic skills, the existing course duration of 6 months would be extended to 8
months and for more complex trades to 10 months to bring graduate skills to
requisite levels. The 660 instructors needed for the 22 VTCs would come from
three instructor training centers established under the Bank-financed First
Education Project.  The existing three-month instructor training course is,
however, inadequate. Agreement was therefore reached that by June 30, 1986,
the course would be expanded and its duration increased to six months (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06(a)). In the longer term, TOMOHAR plans to turn its
attention to another high priority need, namely in--service training for the
existing labor force.
50.      The project would also provide equipment, furniture and technical
assistance to set up a production center for training materials and to revise
and update the training materials and curricula. TOMOHAR is receiving
bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany for the revision of
two of the ten courses; the proposed project would adapt the material and
curriculum for the remaining eight trades.
Industrial Trades Training
51.      The Productivity and Vocational Training Department (PVTD) of the
Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources (MOIMR) would upgrade five VTCs for
industrial trades to better meet the manpower needs in Alexandria, Assiut,
Aswan, Gharbeya and Daqhalia, where industrial activity is growing rapidly.
In addition, a new VTC would be established at Sohag which has a population of
about 2 million and considerable potential for small-scale industrial
development but lacks training facilities. Together the six VTCs would have
an annual output of some 730 skilled and semi-skilled workers in the
automotive, electrical, metal, chemical, air-conditioning, maintenance and
printing trades. The VTCs offer a three-year apprenticeship program: the
first year combines theory and practice in equal proportions, the second and
third consist largely of on-the-job training interspersed with related
theory. This program would be updated and adapted to suit current needs.
Existing training materials would be updated and new materials prepared for
individual trades as appropriate. The estimated 140 instructors required for
the new VTC and for new courses to be added to existing VTCs would be selected
from graduates of MOIMR's instructor training institute (see para. 52 below).
52.      To help meet the need for more and better trained instructors,
MOIMR's instructor training institute (ITI) in Cairo would be upgraded.
Obsolete equipment would be replaced, additional equipment provided for new
courses, and the one-year training program and related training materials



- 15 -
updated and expanded to include new courses. Graduates from MOE's technical
secondary schools and MOIMR's three-year apprenticeship program would be
eligible for this training. The capacity of the ITI would be increased from
150 to 225 trainees, and boarding facilities provided for 100 trainees. This
latter addition would increase training opportunities for students from
outlying regions previously unable to avail of the training because of the
high costs of living in Cairo.
Technical Assistance
53.       MDHLR and MOIMR would need substantial technical assistance to
implement the project components, and in addition, to achieve the broader
objective of establishing TOMOHAR and PVTD as efficient and well-managed
training organizations. Accordingly, the services of 27 consultants for a
total of about 25 man-years would be provided to help upgrade the instructor
training course, and curricula and training materials for construction trades
training; to update the apprenticeship program, curricula and training
materials for industrial trades training; and to improve the ability of
TOMOHAR and PVTD staff to plan, organize, manage and evaluate vocational
training programs. In addition, about 33 man-years of fellowships for 120
project staff would help improve the technical and teaching skills of the VTC
and ITI instructors and the organizational and managerial abilities of VTC and
ITI directors. Efficient management of the sizeable technical assistance
program would be necessary to ensure the timely recruitment of consultants and
placement of trainees. Agreement was therefore reached that by December 31,
1983, qualified training institutions would be contracted on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to provide both the required consultants
and fellowship training (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02), and an understanding
was reached that MDHLR and MOIMR would carry out the technical assistance
program substantially as scheduled.
Training for Women
54.       Women students are likely to be interested in acquiring skills in
limited areas of the industrial trades training. An estimated 12% of the
graduates from the industrial VTCs are expected to be women. With the help of
USAID, MOIMR is in the process of identifying training programs likely to
attract women trainees, and the Bank would draw on their conclusions in
helping to design future projects.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       The total project cost, net of duties and taxes (from which the
project is exempted), is estimated at US$79 million, of which US$42.5 million
or 54% would be in foreign exchange. These estimates are based on the
assumption that all civil works and furniture contracts would be awarded to
local firms and all equipment would be directly imported. Physical
contingencies of 10% of base costs of civil works, furniture and equipment and
professional services, and 5% of technical assistance have been added. Price
contingencies for local costs have been estimated at 16% for 1983, 15% for
1984, and 14% thereafter, and for foreign costs at 8% for 1983, 7.75% for



- 16 -
1984, 7.5% for 1985 and 7% thereafter. Total contingencies amount to about
60% of the base costs. Consultant services are estimated at US$11,000 per
man-month for expatriates and US$6,000 for local experts, and fellowships at
US$3,500 per man-month (including all overheads).
56.      The proposed Bank loan of US$38 million would finance about 89% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project and the front end fee of US$0.3
million.
Recurrent Expenditures
57.      The recurrent expenditure requirements of the project institutions
when they become fully operational in 1989/90 are estimated at about 34% and
5% respectively of MDHLR's and MOIMR's training-related annual recurrent
expenditures.  MOIMR's expenditures, a 5% increase over existing levels, would
not be difficult to accommodate in the recurrent budget. The 50% increase in
MDHLR's expenditures would be absorbed gradually into the budget as project
institutions are completed and become operational over a three year period.
Because these increases compare well with annual increases of 17% and 23%
respectively in MOIMR's and MDHLR's recurrent expenditures in recent years,
and because the Government accords high priority to the project, these
expenditures are expected to be fully met.
Project Execution
58.      TOMOHAR and PVTD would execute the project.  Their existing project
implementation teams, which are executing the ongoing second and third
projects efficiently, have the experience and ability to carry out the
proposed project successfully. However, with the rapid and significant
expansion in the scope of TOMOHAR's overall activities (some 65 centers will
be operational with the completion of this project), its capability to
coordinate and oversee three specific activities needs strengthening.
Accordingly, agreement was reached that by June 30, 1984, TOMOHAR would
recruit adequately qualified and experienced staff as follows: a coordinator
for curriculum development, an instructor training supervisor, and a data
systems supervisor (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b)).
59.      The preparation of architectural designs, tender documents, equipment
lists, and job descriptions for specialists, and the process of site
acquisition, are well under way. TOMOHAR would adapt a prototype building
design developed under previous projects for centers to be built under this
project. Technical assistance would be completed by December 31, 1986, and
the construction, furnishing and equipping of all institutions is expected to
be completed by March 31, 1990. The closing date of the loan would be
September 30, 1990.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.      Contracts in excess of of US$100,000 for equipment and furniture
(totalling about US$30.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Domestic preferences of 15% or the



- 1 7 -
applicable customs duty (whichever is lower) would be granted. The Bank would
review and approve detailed furniture and equipment lists prior to
procurement. Small items or groups of items costing less than US$100,000, or
items for which the Bank would agree with the Government that ICB would be
unsuitable, would be procured under local procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The aggregate of these would not exceed US$3 million. Domestic
suppliers are expected to win all the furniture contracts totalling US$2
million (including contingencies). Because of the wide geographic dispersion
and the relatively small cost of individual institutions (US$1.6 million on
average including contingencies), MDHLR civil works contracts (totalling
US$34.3 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures which do not exclude foreign bidders and are satisfactory to the
Bank.
61.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over 7-1/2 years as follows:
civil works: 12% of total expenditures; furniture: 100% of foreign
expenditures and of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured
goods, and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
consultants: 100%; and fellowships: 100% of foreign expenditures.
Accounts and Audits
62.      The existing system of maintaining separate accounts in TOMOHAR and
PVTD for Bank-financed projects, which has worked well, would be continued
under the proposed project. Separate project accounts would be maintained and
annual audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year.
Benefits
63.      Sustained economic growth in Egypt depends upon an accelerated pace
of industrial development and an efficient construction sector. And the
development of a sound vocational training system to build up a supply of
skilled construction and industrial workers is an essential element in this
process.  The proposed project would continue the task of building up a
skilled industrial and construction work force to help meet Egypt's
development needs and priorities.  Accordingly it would bring direct benefits
to industry (both manufacturing and construction) and to the overall economy.
64.      The project would upgrade the quality of training and help to
alleviate critical shortages of skilled manpower in the construction and
industrial sectors. It would further reduce the gap between manpower demand
and supply, enabling the Government to meet altogether some 85% of the
projected demand for construction workers and about 60% of the demand for
industrial workers by 1992. The project would also strengthen the
institutional base for planning and delivering sound and up-to-date vocational
training programs in the industrial and construction sectors. An important
feature of the project is the widespread geographical distribution of training
facilities. This would support the Government's efforts to achieve a better
balance in the regional distribution of industry and help reduce regional
disparities in development levels.



- 18 -
65.      The project would provide lower income groups in outlying
governorates with opportunities to acquire skills that would make them more
competitive in the job market, and thus equip them with the means to increase
their incomes and improve their standard of living. The provision of boarding
facilities at the instructor training institute would also increase training
opportunities for students from remote areas.
66.      The major quantifiable benefits of the project, when fully
operational, would be an annual output of about 18,000 construction workers,
some 200 well-qualified industrial trade instructors and about 730 skilled
industrial workers (12% of whom would be women). Programs accounting for some
75% of the loan proceeds would directly address the training needs of about
45,000 rural and urban poor.
Risks
67.      The experience gained by MDHLR and MOIMR under previous projects and
the fact of their efficient implementation indicate that there are no undue
risks associated with this project. As the technical assistance proposed in
the project is large, efficient management would be required to ensure the
timely recruitment of specialists and the placement of fellowship trainees in
appropriate institutions. Consequently, the participating ministries would
again use the method of contracting qualified institutions which has been very
successful in the previous projects in the sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.      Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 30, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-19 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGCS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1001.4                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      28.5                                  MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0        190.0     580.0 *               1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      283.0        305.8     538.5                 713.5                   1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HIS-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0       32341.0   39773.0
URaAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9          42.3      45.4                  47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        60.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                  ..     103.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.9         32.3      38.8                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    985.9        1137.6    1364.7                 420.9                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.2         41.8      39.8                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.7         54.9      56.7                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          3.2       3.5                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          2.2       2.1                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               4.1          3.3       2.8                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.5         38.4      36.6                  41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0         15.1      12.1                  12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.7       2.4                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        206.0     187.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           9.0      17.0C.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOl PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0         99.0      92.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   109.0       108.9      117.6/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.9         75.1      81.1i7                71.9                     66.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.5         17.4      19.97/                18.0                     34.0
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0         25.4      14.2                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.1          51.3      56.6                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           128.0           ..     103.4                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      66.0                  59.1                     65.6
URBAN                              39.5           ..      88.0                  83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0                  39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2556.1       1856.7    1046.0/d e            4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1933.3/.,f  1588.4/e  1096.67                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             465.9       448.7      459.2/c               641.7                    477.4
URBAN                             509.7/f      352.7     652.077               538.3                    679.8
RURAL                            2190.57?    2126.1    2297.377               2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS FER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      30.8/c                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       52/c
URBAN                               4.8          ..        5.07..
RURAL                                ..           ..       5.5/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM -
TOTAL                                ..           ..       1.8/c
URBAN                               1.6           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                .            .       45 7/c
URBAN                              37.8           .       76.97Tc
RURAL                                ..           ..      18.67E
*   The updated 1981 GNP per capita and population estimates to be
shown in the 1982 World Bank Atlas are $650 (at 1979-81 prices)
and 43,290.0 thousands.



- 20 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REiERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AERAlGLS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         72.0       75.0                  88.7                    104.3
MALE                  80.0        88.0       88.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                52.0        56.0       61.0                  72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0         34.0      48.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                  23.0        46.0       59.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                 9.0        22.0       36.0                  29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  22.0          19.0       19.5                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      33.8                  34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0      25.2                   23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0           ..       44.0/d                43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.7          4.0        7.6/d                17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         57.9        136.1     138.9                  131.3                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9         16.4      33.4                   44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        23.0       63.7                  31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.6/f         2.2        1.8/j                 1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4       9041.9   11063.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2       7.9                   10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.0         54.0       50.0                  42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0         19.0      30.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0       27.8                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 53.2         51.5       50.7                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1        4.4                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.6        1.6                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/h        17.4/h.i  22.0/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4Th        42.8/h.i  49.27.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.67T         7.O/th    5.17 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57h        18.7h,  14.8..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     131.0                  279.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      94.0                  178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      180.0                403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     118.0                  285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      21.0                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      25.0                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practing in the country; /f 1962; /I 1975; /h Rural expenditures;
/i 1965; /f National, 1974-75.
May, 1982



ENiT II%                                                                     tvlo.O40  690  49 Pnpi44P  -T7,01904   -  -004411064004004
p.;T  potoioo -T i;d  oo 5.9  92i    -.A. 00-40... 49 q u- 0P
II 900d4T0.14 i6-o  Ag 0.40-        04.  P90TidS 1ii2400   40 40-92
I (T                                                                           T  An            -d ~~~~~~9000004l'00-1019l040i49216ISi0ip Il44 -11
TI'll PO!                                              Al., PT-~~~~~~~~~~~5900 46065,449
4040  694  604   P34030*1 4654  03IN'  '4000  914 T05444-444-    -T-02                    n'        .     i90s             L6 'ioli9d61  .oio- d.  49T0 P-    IttIn   J_d
oiOO  o   .sbi    001030   1  *0  3040   i4i2  440141001            0(11In2000    0  '90i0   0                       P950  .. -04   04    S00     0630
- 90i~4 000 00940, - 1 ii40i-  yq4   60   64o   i30    0i940i690                          6003i0i   0   002400 III150 5..... .069650009949)    !44-3 iS
'i-T0p404- - 540 T039I4.5964....                               01   100  00004I140)0604jo
0000i6i0i1004  o04;~s0920Oi060.9014s1O64 Sd6i02=0 "0i M.00                                                                                                          KIM-442 64940li4.2041040i9i1    3.s0
166i9   044900~0  905  9020   04000  Sol  0000   4iiO   *-T~I0'00I                             661 PUS 061 '4061   0441- 69   00TT        94   0  oe
I:4022   D   -.-d. 2i600400   101000    44504i16--d                             00              20*006000p946i30900'6032i00)21    40024id42
'004405-44 (-        p 004-60160  0440 P0i34040201   0 O-OiMO  60                                                                'WiSP 0661  "6  0461 '06T -4449 P440
'044603j04.4024 . - *o.oioodio Aoeo.040 06000146 0200044l2  -024               90     IT04    Gall ois.A4 6-A-oi20-  304   01  2T31   I---440 P044
P., S9 p- SI In.                 37-In      '69990000  40,                              Ii9Oy  464  POO6464 'PT61  13690 I         0..1.  ... .       IIi4500 007i 
"fi)00112II .4     T 04-009:41  0   46  *1-66"I3406p044An00
i-i 90 09   m  ;i05400  50704060  40 0104 -i7i6     ---pSO9 AT.16001,1                                            P-7404   0  9449  oOdi   'p1403   -9 44   Oio II.  ATisii  -
03004lOTOOIiiiOd  *,44 0  9060  000SS96o  '-S   461  0  .461 T   401ALIT04  9094   0044   4.  004 P 0-                                    ,  JO oS9-ToS 09.42  35000001
92614 o,.'s4  sSo 10 joSi;i.o0od37004 9600190 1500  P0          I604i4                                _J01  iI M  Iooid OT   it~ P00      :T493 d d64014 1I   4   00312
90  004  044  1904  00   00994040 0  p300o04  3004Ao.;"               09     6-401 35901490S   90044  141    0I ':;  2T46-44T(2   P-40 'P".
40 OKI.4            DOI4-303   0966   124-41040)sn0110040                                     i04  444   040    1004-(_4oi  04)0S0040AOO    0025
p66 600969'4400404    010.00 '60000   000      i04603-40649-090    '06609i974m.-51   0*00  PCTI-                                 '54230-   0  9004dl.  0"7T-0  6'A04400d
I I .1             I9090661P0  041'         T9 1 619000004 ...                       '1 6400'           "oo0 11000004            d.P- 060401       I160    31 T110*    '4.-40
6i6'6040000   0000064 0  90001046                                                                                                :q.                T, 200004424.0  0024442094   7091000;1   04104  001116 d,oo
90904449  'oooi  000440411010'010- 4060009.04  04044091 14400000  091 pa'041  '9-691 -090"0 .4I0  434044  6945P 960T 100
10604 444991          0   90000 S  04504  900  40- 00440-       0  00T.046      '1600 0603
-.1- -TT-  P.'           -09 03440        .,-o1  30I140  3140   0  060   4   014 4d,04   00
S-IIT-1   -A           .0344100                     060-90    .s_ooo nI0044   0--0044  001T0-2   0                          I0 004690102-00 0
3-60091   0'4610001 0001.900. 01050045  '46.4  -44   ...  p90  30- 010           00 -   0 I 906 I60  60. 900.4."      0004   '0060100-02  060  11  40 .0444            ,,0
40  699.0  64  900001    414.400604 IN00  I4006001004   693                    100   0942064   664-491061    010   s   00P04   0444   94
I.,.IT '= T03 0600614044            -.6610444=     11  4   .43   104000490
......0.     0  0   '6*6   10306I6000IT001                                                                                                                            I-4    40464600190
9.09,106       0094p'0600133019060290   00,190600   9   030  00    04                                                                                                           4
-41  9604   64  009  -4066140  9.400   64  0001943  040006                  0'01090 10104900660  00(06..  0-1  30  40'.-442   0,40T
-000446003906390040000106000909     P--"'  04       TT4 09006620 -00 911  t.I 9l0 40 109Is444T- I.0004004..64000S491                                     I---001.01q I
*40016094 0  p00044449   060441006  4444i010 T0 9000009   D0 7061094               '90600 66109014 010  ~1641             40T 632 .....  49-00 00I943  4004-_244  40TT
0000094  i4S60400   . -104000005000   04   00129  4                   o4oboo4   649    90'    160604  4IT00   644000444                       -   -0006140
A  6190,19P..0..00400   0ITT                                 '46   000  416r   '06   0          I506     .4OOo-   on-o  I410301.. n          4
60090 66.00000 0  000 400.004600   0   60094   10060                                   i;'4 -400.00o04600,6440d040330  24IN 40T 09P '4T                     44   040 
01004  4001001III9  49   09097100   4  0030 -60-0I1                                                  94 064 111  0060  4000420   44- 4.6_0  *6005i9     - d 6191  0042p000   39009
6600420    0010002004 400.4.000   0.0  414904 900038 06006606049                                  90000061 p.  '4261 0I61.4010902,
1000006300  004 090040s640490             0,16600      04    40004400) 600 -1    00  6414402
C16064  00 0664 00T79) 00909   --1041  -                                     I0040)0900441   10                                               '040  0661 P00 '4.60  '4611444
364 6  6099064 4  00099I   4 P101170  91-01  L4pooo    900   IIOI                    -41 T)     6190  '64649-0)  009f60  - (004490)52  64002040  009  50100400
0  001600039300006  1000.2-d 444.000  060 '4T 00140    06004       I'll-,                            -P104                                '00   64 GAIT  04.61'401 414
'301001.0..o9o09   0                           I.3oo4    794   4.1-A               06t607001)1  404-04T 0   9000001 - 601d. 6049410103 -6                      56
-00006006   oooodo 04046' swolod  000400  0 '161406090  '464479400  0904044                  '0009  4.61 000 761 '4061   0049 1940
04920060194004 44      4000043340    60000101n 04   0004   9)49619600   6  *010..AT;-.,                                                                      60-44  -  M    _1""4414
= _  T    .-   -T---I# `00602920                                                                                         244464001 0014014442.4~"
41104000 00 90400446-4090440s400   4390 40-iT  Il 00- 04 4           -n7000                                                                            'P0064      111  3043
09 44   0,60106000   14.04   9000   0  '041000    0000   60100            010400444T 410-         J0000.  In040              .. - V90996 -0  m4i90   424146034664
44004240001  £00010   p00040   4006    0440090  63700    901004064I                                                                                               '130610009
4.00640  1009  6  00001    6664  00610  '0400-  0000440000                            40000   0  3004 4.414640940, 40040  690                                P: 4440  30
A- 09041140040090  09909013 -T0T-60-3                                          09001906 99  401766600.4                I0664  694-  404406           d:0 I00016
4034 .4 _1 0346ho   69900    00009    940004    6400                                            64aI   41090   01163040'404    1906042600
00 _0790_409  24_10  40 0044600  004641    44P.---".P 006040194100   06  '64I07                                               n0041 0  410  40 4T6100904040
1.,1-9 03'  302192 6009446  2993000993 T30040   390--106900740   9046  9*00d  .0004T  4300I016  04067600.1  0'.    00006404 0099
600,433   00660     d00   00 1640  00030   964 440 I   9040 11I006906-6 49000oo64P1                                                  '6090  I00   690 00  ¶00070404  404744  640
3990406  60T  '4990493044I - *9T-490  *4    1000 -!:             400040  440014                0IT99I0d0d4604  40000    2toli942      04140                                    144
30100  40011000p64040                          '00003  0600004   00  0404              TTI0'4   0
040466       190404I00400404  600n  40                        0019960  9   400000
'690040 d9464  I,7..   -Io  00 1T0:,       04010,07200,01;03
.toioo,o3   .4 *o.oosob  60907  01 4.010100004  420  90190   40900107 A403--i4    u                              S'0.44.  10 6007700   -6404000  -491 -9T0    "40 966
- 06000 00 '00900'46001  -(66496960  I0 0004000  00- -94404                                        dq609  944  o02046449   1090994049490  4001                   IITT544  0
~~~~T-                '6049914209                      --0       4690094    0140  00440440004Tio-0                               00004
4090000004   9319440 4090909  9090  76 0  6004TI    --d nTo.06    o4406   0906   0   67040  600400  006436 -O I4( 46400004T0
'00o6Oo64' 420   09  '0942'000000000000   46A00TTT 6090004                                             0-406044014100T;
'99400   110001   00         T"0600  09                                                     00    6100'46   46   ".400    66
006_ '090  900             (PT0000   40  0940   40900PT,_          4  09-14 0004169                                                                                              0401
00100              D961 pa  '4461 '0061  91 4194 i0 IT-46004400  00S-p4'4040900   46004
P",;. 40             Al940  0  pI 0P4W   69470304  6004
6660061  0  0  909600092000022  000         T' "I I0900   01900                                                                                                       06
070009 04   '006011104  494400  I0 3900  00171 6"T04  pa 64009
-0-000  00400-014049  94499 (449  '6469    '00064'2007004000                                                                                              09  0069 9000 '0461
0  9009  00159   A0 49 A0400900000   4Ip440041010  p00                               '0%T7  (9100   44361) 36100  A6  99009              .       T 90600   .09604 .06 49 0900944-
919000 090409  '060039'9900436    -9600   '6690407 40  004000  T01p                     -T.. '0440.     09092020   00"I    100   T04  070  isi "O - 194) 904064  MA4 in
'00  9001001009 9399010943pa  400900 606104 00  21990  -169070                     09030060  40TI  IT2004   4630.46   S409141- 40  004400-d 96900200
'9000   000                                      AQ  -1doj - 40494  490 '40949II '40000 --P91096946   00000                                                      (66   90099)  I
T---- 9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~'atS00046 0 4604 9 o  00000614 9
400000  00  09060  0  41900091  0609304  000    '09099014099041  0040eIoso   904090  0  09000.           0  099 4900   '0090   40  0  0
dojO4209   99   00000    l40    044   6000496   0940'4      4                           40040699604   04    200                          9 (6) 346_I _  3004  9I30344...   4
'0054002 06049 344000149 i466010064  0P060`09I 0              ..'6000004 106   '6V013909  40 00094  69490  00 4669  '904.4
_____                                                                              -    I? -~~~~~'_77,                                       I .
T XgMNV                                                                                             i



- 22 -
ANNEX I
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                           Page 4 of 6
--rlation: 43.3 million (1980/81)
per capita: US $650 a/ (1980/81)
A.ount (million
US$ at current                                       A N N U A L   G R 0 W T H   R A T E S   (2)
prices)                     A CTU AL                                     EST.                PROJ E C TE D
1980/81        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/81   1981182   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
s,AIONAL ACCOUNTS
..oss Domestic Product b/           24233.0           10.4    10.3    10.9    11.9        8.2        9.2       7.6        7.8         7.2        7.1        6.5        6.1
Agriculture                       4901.0            6.3      1.6    -3.0      5.5      3.9       4.3        3.0        2.3        2.5        2.6        2.7        2.9
Industry                          4379.0          10.6      4.8      9.8    12.3       6.5       7.6        7.3        9.0        9.2        8.8        9.1        8.5
Petroleum                         4440.0          39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3          18.9        6.0        8.6        6.3        7.4        5.5        4.4
Services                          9415.0           9.2    11.6       9.4    12.0    10.2        10.8        9.9       11.0        9.8        8.5        7.4        6.6
; onsu=ption                       20147.0          -3.8      8.3    11.0    11.2        4.5      12.6        9.0        9.2        8.3        7.1        6.7        6.0
,Sross Investment                    7309.0          54.2    -8.2       9.3    -2.4       9.4       5.5        7.1        6.0        5.8        5.7        5.7        6.1
Expo-ts of CNFS                      8205.0           27.2    30.8       9.0      3.0     5.8      10.7        8.1        8.2        6.0        6.8        5.8         5.3
Dsports of GNFS                     11429.0          16.0    -5.3       2.5      4.2      8,9      13.7        7.9        6.8        6.7        5.4        5.1        4.7
ross National Saving                5019.3         133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4   -13.4           -          -          -          -          -          -          -           9
R }JfS
GDP Deflator                                          50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0            -          -          -          -          -          -
-change Rate c/                                       2.15    1.97      1.75    1.54    1.43        1.35       -
Share of GDP at Markec Prices (Z)                            Average Increase (X) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                                 1965 Prices  1975 Prices    1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980/81  1984/85                  1960-1970    1970-1975  1975-1979  FY81-FY86
_ 05 Domestic Product
Agricult-re                       27.9    25.3    28.2    19.9        20.2      15.7                  4.7            5.1         1.9         2.4
lndustry 8 Petroleum             23.7    26.1    26.1    34.1         36.4      35.8                  3.0           2.6         17.5         8.6
Services                         42.9    40.8    42.7    41.2         38.8      43.7                  6.3           4.4         10.8         8.6
--sumptios                        87.3    90.6    87.7    79.8         83.1      88.0                  4.4           8.0         6.8          8.5
--oss Investment                   13.3    13.9    33.4    32.8        30.2      28.5                  5.8           4.2          1.8         5.8
-,.ort of GNFS                      19.5    14.2    20.2    30.7        33.9      33.0                  4.9          22.8        11.6         6.8
or   of GNFS                       20.1    18.8    41.3    45.7        47.2      49.6                  1.1           13.5         2.5         6.4
National Saving              12.9      7.7    14.6    27.0        20.7      14.6                  7.2          17.2        22.2         -
As X of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979    1980/81   1981/82
oLIC FINANCE
rrroent Revenue                   18.5    21.3    34.1    32.9         46.6       43.2
Current Expenditure               21.5    22.0    40.5    36.0         38.6       40.6
-urrent Surplus (i) or
Deficit (-)                     -3.0    -0.7    -6.4    -3.1          8.0        2.6
Investment Espenditure            11.8    11.1    11.8    20.0         22.2       21.3
Foreign Financing                  -       -        5.9      8.9        6.5        5.8
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY87
J-HER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (X)                 4.5       5.0      11.5       7.3
GNP per capita growth
rate (X)                          1.9      2.7        8.7       5.4
Energy consumption growth
rate (X) d/                               14.9      13.2      11.0
ICOR                                -         -         3.6       3.3
-arginal Savings Rate               -         -         0.46      0.12
Eport Plasticity                   0.9       1.7       0.9       0.8
Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
,,  GDP for 1980/81 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Sectoral shares and rates of growth concern GDP at factor coat.
Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
Electricity only.
yH DA
1arch 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 43.3 million (1980/81)
GNP per capita: US$650a/(1980/81)
Amount (million)                     Annual Growth Rate (%) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                        A C T U A L                             EST          P R 0 J E C T E D
1980/81    1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82        82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               6002        27.2      19.6       3.1      7.7       9.6      10.5       8.4       7.2       5.6       6.7
-  Primary b/                      664      -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8        4.5      10.1      -3.5       0.9       1.2       1.4
P     -  Manufactures b/                 920        24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9       2.1    -12.5      -6.2       6.2       6.8       7.4
-  Petroleum                     4442         72.0     63.3      11.1      16.1      22.6      12.1      13.7       8.3       5.9       7.2
Merchandise Imports             10039         14.1     -5.0      -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0       7.5       6.3       6.5       5.1
-  Food                          2556        27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8      -7.0      21.2      11.8       3.0       5.5       3.1
-  Petroleum                      333       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.4       3.3       1.8      0.4
-  Machinery and Equipment       3900        59.5      24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6      14.3       7.4       7.3       6.7      6.6
-  Others                        3250        17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5       0.2      20.0       4.4       8.3       7.5      5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                           51.5      49.9      52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0       93.8    100.7    109.1    119.4
Import Price Index                           60.6      63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0    105.8    116.9    126.2    135.7
Terms of Trade Index                         85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0       88.6     86.1      86.5      88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)         Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)               at constant 1980/81 prices
1970     1975      1979    80/81  84/85         1975/79   FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                        9.8       6.8
Primary b/               64.2     28.3      13.6      11.1   12.1          -4.1       2.9
Petroleum                 4.8     25.2      71.0      74.0   71.0          26.8       7.3
ManufacturesŽ/           31.0     46.7      15.4      14.9   16.8         -15.3       6.9
Imports                                                                        1.9       6.1
Food                     13.4     23.6      22.9      25.5   24.8           2.9       5.1
Petroleum                 8.2      6.9       3.3       3.3    2.4         -24.5       2.8
Machinery                23.4     23.7      38.8      38.8   40.2          17.2       6.8
Others                   55.0     45.8      35.0      32.4   32.6          -3.1       6.1
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)       Developing Countries (%)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1965     1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965     1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          27.0      17.0      14.0        18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0      1.0       4.0
Primary                       29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0      11.0                -        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                  19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0               4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                          55.0      42.0      65.0        18.0      25.0      14.0                -         -        4.0
a/ Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
b/ Not including oil and oil products.
EM1DA
March 1983



-24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OP PAYMENTS I EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US at current prices)
EST.                  P R 0 J E C T E D
1974    1975    1976    1977        1978    1979   1980/81  1981/B2    1982/B3    19B3(84           1984/85    19B 5/ 86  -1-986/787
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
port of Goods and Nov-Factor
Services                                  2251    2503    3319    3888    4099          5585    8205       8070        8320       11496        13367       15298        17442
of which merchandise f.o.b.               1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6002            5580         5650        8110         9467       10846        12359
: ports of Goods and Non-Factor
Services                                 -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11429  -11500               -10850      -17739      -20079       -22389      -24875
of which merchandise c.i.f.              -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336  -10039  -10350               -11204      -15418       -17427      -19396      -21520
'ct Factor Income                              70      122     413      472      1098    1143       850        48          70         1198        1086         941          778
Net Private Transfers                          42       90       87       63       54       88       60        66          73           80          88           97         106             q
urrent Account Balance                     -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1484   -2314    -3316               -2387       -4965        -5538       -6053       -6549
Private Direct Investment                      87     225      444      477       387      710    1170       1350        1472         1782        2016        2250         2512
.57 Loans and Grants (Net)                     69      270     647       730    1141    1471    1516         1291        1165         2263        2303        2430         2622
-official loans and grants                 -21      210      490      803    1028    1034    1213          1461        1177        1633         1829        2161        2320
private                                     90       60      157      -73      113      437      303      -170          -12         630          474         269          302
Jther Capital (Net) _/                       1393    1907       191      339    -181    -599    -705          768        -250          920        1219        1373         1415
L-noge in Reserves                             47       24       81     -90        14     -98       333       -93           0            0           0            0           0
cteroational Reserves 1/                    516      678      642      880    1106    1098    1300           900         900         1154        1079        1018          960
- of shich gold                               102      102     102       104      104      104     --         --         --          --           --          --            --
c-sor.es as Months Imports 3/                 1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1     2.2       1.8      1.5       1.0         0.9          0.9         0.8         0.7          0.7
=XTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
-ross Disbhrsements                         2185    3522    2218    3286    2758    2291    2562             2731        3012         5259        5978        6469         6965
Official Grants 5/                       1261      986      705      382      291        72     279       395          519         626          719         775         860
Coscessional Loans                        120    1444       668    1855      1600      996    1276       1034          952        1472         1524        1628        1646
- DAC                                      55      199      421      591      799      833     1103       900          798        1292         1329        1421        1388
- OPEC                                      3    1142       171      137       93       43       69        28           16            1           0           0           0
- IDA                                      12       49       42       42       45       55       48        99          127         103           82          44          22
- Others                                   50       54       34    1085       663       65       56          7          11          76          113         163         236
Nos-Concessional Loans                    804    1092       845     1049      867     1223     1007      1302         1541        2162        2428         2598        2850
- official export credits                 379      639      214       24       44       50       83       185          292         145          182         204         23Q
- IBRD                                     -        14       36       37       57      118      146       139          190         282          347         411         472
- other multilateral                       --        6       -       256       18        5        4        18           27          61           83         102         120
- private                                 425      433      595      732      748    1050       774       960         1032        1674        1816         1881        2028
Gap Financing                                                                                                                          999        1307        1468         1608
EIternaL Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13505    14849               15517       20216       23179        26377       29720
- official                               1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11296           11370       12051        14306       15488        16948       18468
- primate                                 840      940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2210           3479         3466        3736        4210        4479         4781
- gap financing                                                                                                                   2174        3481        4950         6471
Undisbursed Debt                             1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5951           9836         8559        7315         7713        8211        8830
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                        517      595      665    1099    1211    1040    2334           1928        2380        3400        4037         4768        5587
- interest                                 70      115      111      340      387      236      684       910         800          914        1036         1156        1275
- payment as Z exports 2/   ,             21%    21.6%   16.8%   23.9%   21.8%   14.6%   15.6%    21.2%               25.4%       21.1%       22.2%       22.1%       22.22
Average Interest Rate on New Loans            6.3     4.7       5.1      5.1     4.6      6.4       6.5       7.3         7.3          7.3         7.2         7.2         7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (yearn)    17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5                 16.9        16.0         15.8        15.7       15.6        15.6
- official
- private
/ Foroignanse-ts of Central Bank.
_/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3/ Merchandise only.
/ Including -nomercial banks operations, residual foreign financing and special balance of payments financing.
5/ Including special balance of payments grants.
EMIDA
varch 1983



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved       Borrower        Purpose                                       (less cancellations)
Numbers           FY                                                                    Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
16 Loans and Credits fully disbursed 1/                                                  246.8    239.3            -
Cr 423               74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation               --      18.5          0.3
Ln 1064             75             SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                 50.0        --          8.4
Ln 1085              75            ARE          Tourah Cement                             40.0        --          0.9
Ln 1239             76             APA          Alexandria Port                           45.0        --         23.5
Ln 1276-T 2/         76            ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                  50.0        --         16.6
Cr  637              76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                     --      40.0          6.9
Ln 1285              76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292              76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                    52.0        --          6.8
Ln 1369             77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                   53.2        --         22.9
Cr  719              77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                      --      27.0          1.6
Ln 1439             77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    27.0        --         25.3
Ln 1440-T 2/        77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    12.0        --         11.3
Ln 1456             77             ARE          Industrial Imports                        70.0        --          6.4
Cr  774             78             ARE          Telecommunications II                       --      53.0         38.0
Ln 1533              78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III           40.0        --          2.8
Cr  830              78            ARE          Agricultural Development                    --      32.0         22.9
Cr  831              78            ARE          Urban Development                           --      14.0         11.7
Cr  850             79            ARE           Population II                               --      25.0         12.3
Cr  868              79            ARE          Education II                                --      40.0         23.9
Ln S-14             79             ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance              11.0        --          3.3
Cr  909              79            ARE          Tourism                                     --      32.5         26.4
Ln 1732             79             ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                          75.0        --         12.3
Cr  935              79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power            --      37.0         25.8
Ln 1733             79             EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0            --        101.3
Cr  988             80             ARE          Agroindustries                              --      45.0         24.0
Ln 1804             80             DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV            50.0        --         13.7
Ln 1842             80             ARE          MIDB                                      30.0        --         29.5
Cr 1024             80             ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                      --      50.0          7.5
Ln 1849             80             ARE          Pulp and Paper                            50.0        --         50.0
Ln 1886             80             EEA          Power III                                  7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052             80             EEA          Power III                                   --    120.0         108.3
Cr 1069             81            ARE           Education III 4/                            --      40.1         37.2
Ln 1928             81             EGPC         Western Desert Exploration                25.0        --         10.3
Cr 1083             81            ARE           New Land Development 4/                     --      80.0         75.9
Cr 1111             81             ARE          Fish Farming 4/                           --        14.0         13.0
Ln 2002             81             HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation                    64.0        --         63.5
Cr 1156             81             ARE          Beheira Water Supply 4/                     --      56.6         56.6
Cr 1162             81            ARE           Technical Assistance 4/                     --       6.9          6.9
Ln 2041             82             ARE          Telecommunications III 5/                 64.0        --         64.0
Ln 2074             82             DIB          Development Industrial Bank V            120.0        --        117.5
Ln 2103             82             EGPC         Abu Qir Gas Development 5/                90.0        --         90.0
Ln 2176             82            ARE           Greater Cairo Urban Development 5/    59.0            --         59.0
Totals 6/                                                                               1443.0    970.9        1255.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                  89.1       1.4
Total now outstanding                                                                   1353.9    969.5
Amount sold                                             7.5
Of which has been repaid                                7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                          1353.9    969.5
1/  Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsequently refinanced, and a US$1 million PPF advance granted
for the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project.
2/  Third Window Loan.
3/  Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US$35.0 million.
4/ Credit denominated in SDRs. Amount shown is US$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and US$
equivalent at September 30, 1982 for the undisbursed amount.
5/  Became effective after September 30, 1982.
6/ Excludes a US$132 million loan for an El Dikheila Port Project and a US$81.2 million loan for a Second
Agroindustrias Prpject which have been approved by the Board, but not yet signed.
(231J)



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                   Type of Business                  Loan      Equity    Total
…-----(US$ Million)------
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company      Ceramic Industry                   6.63      1.15      7.78
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry         0.43      0.16      0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company       Agricultural Production,          20.00      3.00     23.00
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing           12.10      2.38     14.48
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish             Food and Food Processing            1.93     0.55      2.48
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company       Building Materials                30.00        -      30.00
81    Luxor Hotel               Crocodile Tourist Project          4.41      0.72      5.13
Total gross commitments                                             75.50      7.96     83.46
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               11.83      -        11.83
Total commitments now held by IFC                                   63.67      7.96     71.63
Total Undisbursed                                                   10.04      3.00     13.04
231J



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973', Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982. 2/
The project is expected to be completed in 1983. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds and slow
implementation of civil works, have been overcome.  All new ginneries have
been commissioned and the remaining eight are expected to be commissioned
during 1983.  Progress of civil works on these ginneries is satisfactory,
and procurement of equipment under the Credit is also complete.  The Credit
funds are expected to be disbursed by the closing date.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
have lagged behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for all items have been
awarded. The financial situation of the borrower is sound.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982. 2/
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Erection work is nearing completion. Start-up of facilities
has commenced and the project is expected to be completed by the closing
date.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works contract is
proceeding slowly and other civil works are behind schedule, due largely to
changes in the senior management of Alexandria Port Authority and delays in
the provision by Government of funds to pay the contractor. Procurement of
most equipment is progressing satisfactorily although the award of a
contract for radar equipment is badly behind schedule. A resumption of
full funding is expected within the next few months. The Bank's views have
been given on the evaluation report of radar tenders. Project completion
may be delayed by up to 6 months.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Credit/Loan closed as scheduled.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982. 1/
While substantial progress has been made on most components of
this loan, the El Nasr Canal component is three years behind schedule.
After extensive discussion with the Government, a new schedule has been
developed for the repair of the Nasr Canal, and progress is now being
made. On this basis it is proposed to extend the project initially for one
year. All funds are committed for the credit component; and although there
have been significant problems in the development of the seed farm, the
Bank has been discussing with Egyptian officials revised modes of
management which should improve performance.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 80 percent of the project area. Tile drains have been
installed covering 89,000 feddans, about 18 per cent of the project
target. This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction
planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public
sector contracting companies, as well as because of delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. Progress on the Bilharzia Control Program is
on schedule, but it will need continued integrated strategy of snail
control measures and treatment of infected patients, and improved quality
control.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT-- Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials. Early management problems have now been overcome and both
companies have developed effective project execution units. Disbursements
are slower than anticipated, reflecting initial delays in procurement.
1/ Closing Date extended to December 31, 1983.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
Of the nine additional contracts agreed to by the Bank, one has
been completed. Tenders for another seven contracts have been received and
evaluated, and two of these have been awarded. The remaining contract has
been advertised and tenders are due shortly. Of the original work,
9          pipelaying is essentially completed.  Work on construction of treatment
plants is experiencing some delays. At one treatment plant site two test
piles have failed and additional piling is now required. Project
completion is now expected to be February/March 1984. Work is proceeding
to curb the resurgence of unaccounted for water in the city which now
stands at about 50%. A computer for billing and other statistical and
financial activities is being installed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 580,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
81,000 feddans, about 20 percent of the project target. This activity is
behind schedule mainly because of construction planning and management
constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector contracting
companies. The progress is expected to improve with the delivery of
plastic pipe laying machines being imported by the contractors. Moderate
progress has been made with the civil works of four new pumping stations.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it needs continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1456-ECT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1982. 1/
The loan has been fully committed and about 92 percent disbursed.
Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has agreed to reallocate
funds among the various categories to take account of projected
over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in Category IV
for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper companies.
The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under Category IV
is now completed. The Government has not utilized the funds under the loan
to develop any programs to improve preventive maintenance practices in
public enterprises. The loan has been closed as scheduled but
disbursements will continue until end-1982 on an informal basis.
1/ Loan closed June 30, 1982; account is being held open to allow
disbursements against contracts signed before closing date.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982. 1/
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fully committed and $37.2
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. 2/
Out of the credit of $53 million about $40 million has been
committed and about $10 million is under commitment. Due to earlier delays
in procurement, the project has been delayed by about three years. At this
time an extension of the closing date from December 31, 1982 to December
31, 1983 is proposed. ARENTO revised its telecommunications tariffs in
January/February 1982 and the resulting increased revenues are expected to
be sufficient for ARENTO to achieve the agreed minimum rate of return of
10% on its revalued assets. Progress has also been made in the settlement
of receivables from Government agencies.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
execution. Project organization and management have been strengthened and
the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A study
of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and finance
will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of machinery
workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of farm
implements is progressing.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. 3/
The Assuit Governorate is making reasonable progress in
implementing its components; and project items in the Cairo Governorate are
progressing, although slowly. The Alexandria components presented
difficult problems until recently these now appear to be resolved. The
credit closing date is proposed tc be ext iaded initially for one year on
the basis of an agreed detailed ac-ion prt,gra'n.
1/ Loan closed as scheduled.
2/  Closing Date extended to June 30, 198J.
3/ Closing Date extenaed to December 3i, 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction has been completed on over 70% of the facilities.
Institutional arrangements have been completed to carry out the delayed
software activities, particularly the home visiting program, IEC and
training. Project management has improved considerably and MOH has agreed
*          to recruit additional staff to further strengthen supervision and
monitoring.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of
technical assistance components on schedule. Although disbursements are
somewhat slower than appraisal estimates, no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The experimental mine started operations in January 1981, a delay
of about 10 months. The chemical tests on the phosphate rock have been
completed and reviewed by the Bank. An optimization study on the
alternative configurations of the project, its scope and output volume as
well as locations of phosphate processing facilities was completed in
September 1981 and has been reviewed by the Bank. The conclusion reached
is that the initial target of 7 million tons per year of phosphate rock
production is not justified by projected market demand and should be
reduced drastically. Agreement on scope of proposed project has not been
reached. However, the closing date has been extended 12 months to June 30,
1983, to facilitate completion of studies under Part C (ii) of the
project. The detailed project report on the mining operation has been
received and is under review.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Design work is under way on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Execution of
most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen the
project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project was delayed initially but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Commissioning and start-up of the main plant facilities
should be completed by end-1982. The Ras Bakr component is scheduled to be
completed in June 1983, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1983.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Bids for most major equipment packages have been received and
orders have been placed. With concerted efforts by project management, it
might be possible to overcome the delay of about six months that has
already taken place in project execution and to complete the project on
time. EEA's rate of return is well below the agreed level. Measures to
improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Construction of the Cairo abattoir is more than half completed and
the contract for construction of the Alexandria abattoir has been
ratified. The credit component through the three participating banks is
virtually committed.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely committed
and US$36.3 million has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations. Disbursements have been slow; however
MIDB has recently revised its operation forecast for 1982 and, as a result,
expects to commit a substantial portion of the loan by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Engineering work for
the project is in an advanced stage of preparation.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date; December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project is making good progress. An ongoing intensive
training program and accumulated on-the-job experience have resulted in a
larger trained work force and significant productivity gains. A concerted
effort is being made to complete all the household connections by the end
of 1983 as originally planned.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
r           million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged. Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT,
US$120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the physical components of the project is
satisfactory. The tariff study has been completed. EEA's rate of return
is well below the agreed level, and measures to improve EEA's financial
situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Four exploration wells in the eastern part of GPC's permit area
have been drilled and gas has been found in what appear to be commercial
quantities. Appraisal drilling aimed at firming up the reserves is
ongoing. Four more exploration wells are expected to be drilled under the
project.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Development works on Phase I (7,500 feddans) started in July 1982,
and the work will be accelerated after the arrival of the ordered
construction equipment. The design and tender documents for Phase II
(17,000 feddans) are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be
completed in November 1982. Field trials continue on schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. No. llll-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (US$14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 25, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
In mid-1982, the Government selected consultants to provide
construction supervision and fisheries technical assistance. (The same
firms were previously engaged under the PPF). Despite the selection of
consultants, the project authorities are making slow progress with respect
to: (i) formulation and implementation of training plans; (ii) procurement;
and (iii) preparation of production plans for the Maryut Fish Farm. These
matters are being addressed by a supervision mission scheduled to visit
Egypt in November 1982.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, are
proceeding well.
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
million (US$56.6 million)  of November 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
There is a delay of some five months in project implementation due
to difficulties in finalizing engagement of engineering consultants after
the previous contract expired. Services for the next phase of management
consulting work are still under negotiation. Six contracts have been
advertised and tenders for five have been received. Responses have also
been received for prequalification of contractors for two rehabilitation
contracts. The taking over of services by the Beheira Water Company is
largely on schedule and the company is now supplying over 90% of the
treated water in the governorate. Total staff of the company is now 559
and about another 300 will be added in FY83. Successful attempts to
improve system operation have been made by the company staff.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The Ministry of Irrigation has
finalised a contract for employment of consultants (Harza Engineering).
The Ministry of Land Reclamation has selected consultant and is now
negotiating a contract.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 2041-EGT - Telecommunications III Project; US$64 million Loan of
August 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is under way. 1/
Ln. No. 2074-EGT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; US$120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Progress is satisfactory: US$25.9 million has been committed and
US$2.5 million has been disbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Ln. No. 2103-EGT - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US$90 million Loan of
May 3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Action on effectiveness is under way. 2/
Ln. No. 2176-EGT - Greater Cairo Urban Development Project; US$59 million
Loan of October 26, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is under way.3/
1/ Loan became effective on February 28, 1983.
2/ Loan became effective on December 23, 1982.
3/ Loan became effective on February 16, 1983.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:               5 months (January-May 1982)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:            Ministry of Development,
Housing and Land Reclamation
(MDHLR); and Ministry of
Industry and Mineral
Resources (MOIMR)
(c) Date of Government request to the Bank:         November 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:         May 28, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:             March 8, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   September 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. The instructor training course for MDHLR would be expanded and its
duration extended to six months by June 30, 1986 (para. 49).
2. By December 31, 1983, qualified training institutes would be contracted to
provide consultants and fellowship training (para. 53).
3. TOMOHAR would recruit three additional staff by June 30, 1984
(para. 58).



2O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
M45 DU7-CRP,A N5AN    5i,FA-
KA.F  EL-SHE K-                                      PORT SAID
'AZ~
3OB 
-30,           olV'.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
?ROJECT COM .PONINTS                                                       E
Minsty of Daelop-et, Housin,g ond land Reclamaion
a     Maui -ont-utio  trades voctiona tnis-g cent-ers6
El   I-t-truction  -mate      cente b( eqipping)
Ministry of Inustry and Mineral Renonce
*     New.uoca.ional c trI ni g canter
N     VoCational tra ning center  -etninad equipping)
A     Vocational train in  megents   quippig)                                                                       S    A
1Itrtor Tain     Istiu   e                   ad equipping)
N.t.-I                                                        ,.                                           ,   .l
o  Selected toons                                                                                                                                       J
-26' ~        ~         POJC   COPOENS                                                             Ellc <. -                                                   ..d 
River-s and wdis
Apprsciate gu onatc bo undarie      s -
O      Irtarational bouna,ries
sypo I  I A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASA DA_ 
LvuBti~&sr of\Sll RA IA u    an 
OF 
I----Nw   oainltrln   etr                                                                                                      ,.--            -.       ! '.         ' 
SUD   N                                                                                                                                                                                             -  osus



