Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3969-VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated August 27, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3969-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 2004, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower will receive from the United Nations Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization (FAO) a grant (the FAO Grant) in an aggregate amount of up to five 
hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($550,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A.1 (c), A.2, 
A.3, A.4, B.2 and B.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
or agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and FAO (the FAO Grant 
Agreements); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“DA” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture within MARD 
(as defined below), and any successor thereto. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(c) 
“DAH” means the Borrower’s Department of Animal Health within 
MARD, and any successor thereto 
(d) 
“DARD” means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and Rural 
Development at the provincial level. 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(f) 
“Grand Parent” and “GP” mean  pure-bred poultry breeding stock. 
(g) 
“HPAI” means the highly pathogenic avian influenza virus. 
(h) 
“MARD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“NAEC” means the National Agricultural Extension Center within 
MARD, and any successor thereto. 
(j) 
“NSC” means the National Steering Committee for Avian Influenza 
Control referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(k) 
“OIE” means Organisation Internationale des Epizooties, the World 
Organization for Animal Health, and any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(m) 
“PPIU” means a Provincial Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated June, 
2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation. 
(o) 
“Project Provinces” means the Provinces of An Giang, Binh Dinh, Dong 
Nai, Dong Thap, Ha Tay, Thua Thien - Hue, Long An, Thai Binh, Tien Giang and Vinh 
Phuc, and such other province or provinces as the Borrower and the Association may 
agree to from time to time, and any successor thereto; and a “Project Province” means 
any of the Project Provinces. 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(q) 
“WHO” means the World Health Organization, an agency of the United 
Nations, and any successor thereto.  
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR3,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2015 and ending July 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2024 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through its Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Project 
Provinces, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, veterinarian and public health practices, and sound social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Association, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower shall have ceased to be a member in good standing of OIE 
and/or WHO. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the FAO Grant made to 
the Borrower to assist in the financing of Parts A.1(c), A.2, A.3, 
A.4, B.2 and B.3 of the Project, shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the agreement or agreements providing therefor;  
Page  9
-
8
-
8
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:  
(a) 
the FAO Grant Agreements have been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(b) 
the Borrower, through MARD, has adopted and put into effect a Project 
implementation manual acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Borrower, through MARD, has prepared a detailed procurement plan 
for the period July 2004 through December 2005, acceptable to the Association; and 
(d) 
(i) 
the PCU has: (A) appointed senior staff seconded from each of 
DAH, DA and NAEC, as Coordinators; and (B) selected a full 
time Project accountant and a procurement officer with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, to be 
appointed to the PCU under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
at least three (3) Project Provinces have established their  
respective PPIUs, and appointed thereto a part-time Project 
accountant, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(iii) 
the PCU has established a computerized accounting system 
acceptable to the Association; and  
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(iv) 
the accounting staff selected for the PCU and the accounting 
staff appointed to the PPIUs referred to in clause (ii) above have 
completed training in financial management, control and 
reporting, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
  
412248 
  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
   
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
or 64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam as of the day and year first above written.
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By Klaus 
Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works  
 
280,000 
 
90% 
 
(2) Goods: 
 
(a) breeding stock under   
 
Part B.1 of the Project 
 
(b) laboratory equipment 
 
under Part A.3 of the 
 
Project            
 
(c) other goods 
 
840,000 
 
175,000 
 
1,225,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 85% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally 
 
(3) Consultants’ services other 
 
than under Parts A.1(c), 
 
A.2, A.3, A.4, for 
 
biosecurity assessment 
 
under Part  B.2, and under 
 
Part B.3 
 
210,000 
 
100% for expenditures for 
services of individuals 
domiciled outside the territory 
of the Borrower, and 93% for 
expenditures for services of 
all other consultants 
 
(4) Training and workshops 
 
other than under Parts 
 
A.1(c), A.2, A.3 and A.4 
 
of
the Project 
350,000                                                           
100% 
 
(5) Incremental Operating 
 
Costs  
 
280,000 
 
70% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
                 140,000 
 
TOTAL: 
              3,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of 
incremental expenditures incurred by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project 
(which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), including staff per 
diem field allowances, travel expenses, costs for vehicle operation and maintenance, 
office rental and office consumables, communication expenses, printing expenses, 
compensation for emergency overtime for Animal Health Workers at the commune level, 
and salaries of contractual staff,  but excluding regular salaries of public employees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except  that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of             
SDR 210,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 15, 2004;  
(b) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2)(a), until the 
Borrower has provided to the Association: (i) the assessment report and 
recommendations of the biosecurity specialist; and (ii) evidence that said 
recommendations have been incorporated into the final construction designs for the 
upgrading and rehabilitation of breeding farms, all in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (2)(b) for the 
establishment of the Virus Reference Laboratory under Part A.3 of the Project, until the 
Borrower has provided to the Association: (i) an accident mitigation plan acceptable to 
the Association; and (ii) a satisfactory report of a technical audit of the National Institute 
for Viral Research conducted under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, by 
an expert or experts with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, all 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, except contracts for breeding stocks 
under Part B.1 of the Project; (b) works costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; 
(c) services of: (i) individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; and (ii) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
training and workshops; and (e) Incremental Operating Costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to restore productive 
assets and economic activities in the rural areas following the 2003-2004 avian influenza 
epidemic and to safeguard against future outbreaks, through: (i) the strengthening of 
disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity in the control of HPAI; (ii) strengthening of 
the poultry sector infrastructure to better cope with serious disease outbreaks; and (iii) 
improvement in public awareness and information to safeguard human health. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity and HPAI Research
1. 
Enhance disease surveillance from the commune to the central levels through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and goods to: (a) strengthen public veterinary 
networks and carry out routine serological survey; (b) establish community-based 
surveillance networks in approximately thirty (30) districts in the Project Provinces; and 
(c) improve information flows and improve epidemiological information system. 
2. 
Strengthen disease diagnostic capacity through the provision of technical 
assistance, equipment and training to the National Veterinary Diagnostic Center in Hanoi 
and to the Regional Veterinary Centers in Vinh, Da Nang, Can Tho and Ho Chi Minh 
City. 
3. 
Strengthen research on HPAI and other pathogenic viruses through the provision 
of technical assistance, equipment and training for the establishment of a Virus Reference 
Laboratory under the National Institute for Veterinary Research. 
4. 
Carry out strategic studies to support the preparation of a national contingency 
plan for HPAI; carry out a self-evaluation of veterinary services; and participation in 
regional and international information exchanges and dissemination on avian influenza. 
5. 
Develop an emergency outbreak containment plan, including provision of 
disinfectants, equipment and protective clothing to enable rapid activation of human and 
physical resources in cases of outbreak.  
Page  16
-
15
-
15
Part B
:
Poultry Sector Rehabilitation
1. 
Replace poultry breeding stock through the import of disease-free GP breeding 
stock and re-stocking of about twelve (12) poultry breeding farms operated by MARD. 
2. 
Strengthen the biosecurity of GP breeding farms to ensure their defense against 
infectious disease outbreaks through the provision of technical assistance and equipment, 
rehabilitation and upgrading of livestock facilities and development of disease 
containment measures. 
3. 
Carry out strategic studies on compensation policy for affected producers and on 
the restructuring of the poultry sector to enable it to withstand serious disease outbreaks; 
and carry out a survey of poultry losses resulting from the 2003-2004 avian influenza 
epidemic.    
Part C
:
Public Awareness and Information
1. 
Carry out a program to build capacity on communications and public 
information, including carrying out a needs assessment of extension and veterinary staff 
at all levels, training of trainers on communication, common poultry diseases and animal 
husbandry, and dissemination of information to poultry farmers, through the provision of 
technical assistance, training and equipment. 
2. 
 
 
Develop pilot models for community-based rapid communication and 
information systems, including providing training in communications methodology for 
extension and veterinary staff and assessing needs in communications requirements for 
poultry producers, through the provision of technical assistance, equipment, training and 
the preparation and dissemination of communication and information materials. 
3. 
Improve the monitoring and evaluation of public awareness and information 
activities under the Project, through the provision of technical assistance and training.  
Part D
:
Project Management Support
Strengthen Project implementation capacity at the central and provincial levels, 
including auditing of Project activities, through the provision of technical assistance, 
equipment and training. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods (including laboratory equipment, chemicals and reagents for 
the National Veterinary Diagnostic Center, the four Regional Veterinary Centers and the 
Virus Reference Laboratory, protective clothing, disinfectants, sampling kits and small 
equipment, and vehicles) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract  
and works for upgrading of the biosecurity of GP poultry breeding farms, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
.
Essential GP breeding stocks which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
(a) 
Laboratory equipment and chemicals and reagents for the National 
Veterinary Diagnostic Center, the four Regional Veterinary Centers, and the Virus 
Reference Laboratory, protective clothing, disinfectants, sampling kits and small 
equipment may be procured directly from the World Health Organization 
 
in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
(b) 
Vehicles may be procured from the Inter-agency Procurement Services 
Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.
 
If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for 
such contracts, referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Association.
 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Management 
1. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain the inter-ministerial National Steering Committee for Avian Influenza Control, 
under the chairmanship of the Minister of MARD and with representation from the 
Ministries of Health, Finance, Planning and Investment among others; with sufficient 
functions and authority to provide general policies and guidelines for Project 
implementation, review annual work plans and ensure coordination among agencies 
responsible for public health, veterinarian services and other relevant agencies. 
2. 
 The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
maintain a national Project Coordination Unit within MARD to be responsible for the day 
to day management, supervision and monitoring of Project implementation, including 
overseeing procurement and financial management, providing guidance in and 
monitoring of Project implementation at the provincial and local levels, and maintaining 
coordination among the departments and units of MARD implementing Project activities; 
said Project Coordination Unit to be under the direction of experienced managers, 
provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel in adequate 
numbers, with qualification and experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, including three Coordinators, drawn from among senior staff from DAH, 
DA and NAEC, and seconded to the PCU to be in charge respectively of Parts A, B and 
C
of the Project, a Project accountant and a procurement officer.  
3. 
The Borrower:  
(a) 
shall cause each Project Province to establish and, thereafter throughout 
the period of implementation of the Project, maintain a PPIU to be responsible for 
managing the implementation of the Project in said Project Province under the guidance 
and supervision of the PCU; said PPIU to be under the direction of the Deputy Director 
of the provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, provided with 
sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel in adequate numbers, and with 
experience and qualification and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
including staff drawn from DARD sub-departments of Animal Health, Agriculture, and 
Extension, and a Project accountant, and with representation from various stakeholder 
groups, including the local Women’s Union; and 
(b) 
shall not finance any Project activities within a Project Province until  
such Province has established its PPIU, in accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) above, in a manner acceptable to the Association and the Borrower.  
Page  20
-
19
-
19
4. 
(a) 
To guide the implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through 
MARD, shall prepare and adopt a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to the 
Association; said Project Implementation Manual to set forth the implementation 
arrangements at both the central and provincial levels, and to provide detailed guidelines 
for procurement and financial management, including procedures and requirements for 
disbursement of funds, record keeping, reporting and auditing of Project records. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend, revise, abrogate or waive the Project 
Implementation Manual or any part thereof without the prior concurrence of the 
Association. 
5. 
For purposes of Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
adopt generally accepted standards of biosafety, including safety for 
laboratory workers; and 
(b) 
implement a program of training in said standards of biosafety for staff 
of the National Veterinary Diagnostic Center and Regional Veterinary Centers, and of the 
Virus Reference Laboratory, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
6. 
In regard to the Virus Reference Laboratory under Part A.3 of the Project, prior 
to putting it into operation, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare and put into effect an accident mitigation plan acceptable to the 
Association; and  
(b) 
submit the design and operation plans of said Laboratory to a technical 
audit in respect of their biosafety standards by experts with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
7.  
In regard to Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
engage engineering consultants with qualification and experience and 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association to prepare construction designs 
addressing biosecurity needs for each of the GP breeding farms under the Project;  
(b) 
prior to commencing work to upgrade livestock facilities, purchasing and 
installing biosecurity equipment and re-stocking such breeding farms, engage a 
biosecurity specialist with qualification and experience and under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, to assess the adequacy of biosecurity measures in the 
construction designs referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above; the assessment report and 
recommendations of said biosecurity specialist shall be provided to the Association for its 
review; and 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
(c) 
incorporate the biosecurity specialist’s recommendation into the final 
construction designs which shall form the basis for the upgrading and rehabilitation of 
said farms. 
 
8. 
In regard to Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
by no later than December 31, 2004, complete the preparation of a 
National Emergency Contingency Plan for HPAI, and provide such Plan to the 
Association for its review and comment; and 
(b) 
thereafter, put into effect said Plan taking into consideration the 
Association’s view thereon. 
9. 
In regard to Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, by no later than 
December 31, 2004, complete a study on compensation policy for producers affected by 
HPAI, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and provide such study 
and the recommendations thereof to the Association for its review and comments. 
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association; (i) on or about April 15 and October 15 of each year, 
commencing on October 15, 2004, a semi-annual report; and (ii) on or about June 30, 
2005, a mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 10, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c) 
promptly review with the Association, each report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph 10, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
