                                                Documentof
                                            The World Bank
                                        FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo.T7631-VN




                                            TECHNICALANNEX


                                                   FORA

                                 PROPOSEDCREDITOF SDR3.5 MILLION

                                      (US$5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                     TO

                                 THE SOCIALISTREPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                                                  FORAN




                         AVIAN INFLUENZA EMERGENCYRECOVERYPROJECT



                                                 July 2,2004




RuralDevelopment
And Natural Resources Sector Unit
EastAsia andPacificRegion

This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
                (May 24,2004)
     Currency Unit=Vietnamese Dong (VND)
             1VND =US$0.000064
              1US$= 15,726 VND


               FISCAL YEAR
           January 1   - December31


     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADP                - Agricultural Diversification Project (IDA)
AI                 - Avian Influenza
AIERP              - Avian InfluenzaEmergencyRecoveryProject
AFD                -Agence  FranCaise de De'veloppement
AHW                - Animal HealthWorkers
AIRWG              - Avian InfluenzaRecovery Working Group
AISC               - Avian Influenza SteeringCommittee
APMB               - Agricultural Project Management Board (MARD)
CDC                - CommunicableDiseasesCenter (Atlanta)
DA                 - Department of Agriculture (MARD)
DAH                - Department of Animal Health (MARD)
DO                 - DevelopmentObjective
ERL                - EmergencyRecoveryLoan
F A 0              - FoodandAgricultural Organization
FMR                - FinancialMonitoringReport
GP                 - Grand-Parent(stock)
HPAI               - Highly PathogenicAvian Influenza
IAPSO              - Inter-Agency ProcurementService Office
I S                - International Shopping
ICARD              - InformationCenter for Agriculture andRural
                      Development(MARD)
ICD                - InternationalCooperation Division(MARD)
IPSAS              - InternationalPublic Sector Accounting Standards
MARD               - Ministryof Agriculture andRuralDevelopment
M&E                - MonitoringandEvaluation
NAP                - National Action Plan(for AI control)
NAEC                - National Agricultural Extension Center (MARD)
NIAH                - National Institute of Animal Husbandry (MARD)
NIVR                - National InstituteofVeterinary Research(MARD)
N S                 - National Shopping
NVDC                - NationalVeterinary Diagnostic Center (MARD)

                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                     OIE              - Organisation Internationaledes Epizooties
                    PMU               - Project ManagementUnit
                     PPIU             - Provincial Project ImplementationUnit
                     PPR              - Project PreparationReport
                     QBCS             - Quality-BasedConsultant   Selection
                     RVC              - Regional Veterinary Center
                     SARD             - Sub-Departmentof Agriculture andRural
                                        Development (Provincial Level)
                     S&M              - SurveillanceandMonitoring
                     SOE              - Statementof Expenses
                     SPS              - Sanitary andPhytosanitary
                     SBV              - State Bank ofVietnam
                     TCP              - Technical  CooperationProgram(FAO)
                     TOR              - Terms   of Reference
                     TOT              - Training  of Trainers
                     VBARD            - Vietnam  Bank for Agriculture andRural
                                        Development
                     vwu              - Vietnam Women's Union
                     WHO              - World   Health Organization




  Vice President:                               Jemal-ud-dinKassum, EAPVP
  Country Director:                             Klaus Rohland, EACVF
  Sector Director:                              Mark D.Wilson, EASRD
  Task Team Leader:                             Laurent Msellati, EASRD




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                               THE SOCIALIST REPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                 TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT FOR AN

                 AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCY PROJECT

                                                              CONTENTS



I COUNTRYBACKGROUND
 .                                        ..............................................................................................................         1
  BACKGROUND  .......................................................................................................................................... 1
  DAMAGE ASSESSMENT         ............................................................................................................................         2
I1 IDA RESPONSE'ANDSTRATEGY
 .                                                      .................................................................................................        2
                                                                    ......................................................................................       2
  RESPONSEGAPAND THE RESPONSEBY IDA...........................................................................................
  RESPONSETO AVIAN INFLUENZAEMERGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                 3
  LESSONSLEARNED      .................................................................................................................................. 3
  RATIONALEFORIDA INVOLVEMENT                      ......................................................................................................        4
I11 PROJECTDESCRIPTION
  .                                       ..............................................................................................................         4
  PROJECTOBJECTIVES...............................................................................................................................               4
  PROJECTDESCRIPTION        ............................................................................................................................
  PROJECTCOSTAND FINANCING..............................................................................................................                         5
                                                                                                                                                                 7
IV INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION
  .                                                                                                                                        ..................... 8
  PROJECTORGANIZATIONAND MANAGEMENT                               ........................................................................................       8
  ACCOUNTING,FINANCIAL REPORTINGAND AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS                                                   ....................................................
  RETROACTIVEFINANCING ....................................................................................................................... 9                 9

  PROCUREMENT   ........................................................................................................................................ 9
  ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIALASPECTS                         ................................................................................................        9
V PROJECTBENEFITSAND RISKS
 .                                                      ...............................................................................................          10
  PROJECTBENEFITS ................................................................................................................................               10
  PROJECTRISKS ......................................................................................................................................            10


APPENDIXES
   Appendix 1.                                                                                                                                                    12
   Appendix2-Economic Impact...........................................................................................................
                ProjectDesignSummary ...............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                  16
   Appendix 3 -ComponentA -StrengtheningDiagnosticCapacity, Surveillance,
                                                                                                                                                                  19
   Appendix 4 -ComponentB-PoultrySubsector Rehabilitation.........................................................
                andHPAIResearch........................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 24
   Appendix 5 -Component C-Public Awareness andInformation.....................................................                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                 35
   Appendix7 -ImplementationArrangements ......................................................................................
   Appendix 6 -ProjectCost....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                  37
   Appendix 8 -ProcurementArrangements...........................................................................................                                44
                                                                                                                                                                  52
   Appendix 10-Environmentaland Social Impact ...............................................................................
   Appendix 9-FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements.............................................
                                                                                                                                                                  59
   Appendix 11-MonitoringandEvaluation..........................................................................................                                  61

MAP          IBRDMapNo. 32922

                                                                       - 1 -


                                        THE SOCIALIST REPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                              TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT FORAN

                              AVIAN INFLUENZA EMERGENCYRECOVERY PROJECT


                                                I.COUNTRYBACKGROUND
Background

  1.         Since the GovernmentofVietnam declaredthe presence of highly pathogenic avian influenza
(HPAI)', an estimated44 million poultry have either died of the disease or have beenculled2. The
disease has spreadto most countries in SoutheastAsia, and Vietnam is one oftwo countries inthe region
 inwhich humanfatalities from the diseaseoccurredas the result ofthe direct transmissionofthe virus
from poultry to humans. The H5N1 HPAI epidemic inVietnam has caused at least 15 humandeaths and
a much larger number of suspected infections. As yet, however, the disease has not developedthe
capacityto spreadbetweenhumans. After the first confirmed cases, occurring on 25 December 2003, the
outbreak spread rapidly throughout the country, overwhelmingthe capacity of the veterinary servicesand
disease surveillancesystemsto containthe epidemic. Lackingthe necessary fine-tuned field monitoring
systems and diagnostic capacity to deal with the outbreakby means of selective, strategic containment,
the Governmentadopteda policy ofdepopulatinglargeareas under which both infected andnon-infected
poultry were culled. All poultry movement was halted, live-poultry markets were closed, and stringent
disinfection and other biosecurity measures were introduced. A new outbreakwas reportedon May 4 in
the Ho Chi Minharea. Since early March, these measures have beenrelaxedon a province-by-province
basiswhenever it is observedthat 30 days have elapsedsince the last outbreak.

2.           Aside from the significant public health implications, total poultry losses from the outbreak
 amount to nearly one-sixthof the national poultry inventory. These losses are creatingserious economic
hardship, not only for commercialandrural poultry owners but also for the poultry service trade. With
the withdrawal ofpoultry meatfrom the market, the prices ofother meats have risenby as muchas thirty
percent, well beyondthe reach of lower-income consumers. While the epidemic appears to have been
brought under control, there remains a strongpossibility that with the resumptionof poultry trade andthe
re-stocking of depopulatedfarms, new flare-ups will occur. Since these flare-ups may well coincide with
the seasonofhumaninfluenzathe riskofgenetic exchange betweenthe two types ofvirus, whilst
 concurrently infecting a commonhost, remains a remote possibility with potentially serious public health
 outcomesshould humanto humantransmissionresult.

3.           The proposedemergency recoveryproject would, supportthe National Action Plan for the
control of HPAI. Inparticular, it would assist the government instrengtheningits disease surveillance
systemto identify new HPAIoutbreaks inatimely manner, rehabilitate affected poultry farmers and
strengthenthe diagnostic and field surveillancemechanismsto better guardagainstfuture outbreaks(see
Appendix 1 for project designsummary and log-frame). Monitoringand surveillanceto confirm the
absence of HPAI in de-stockedareas prior to restocking is of utmost priority and needsto be undertaken
 immediately, well before scheduled project implementation. Similarly, all breedingfarms must be
certified free of infection before releasingchicks on the market. Funds from other ongoing projects(such
as FAO/TCP) shouldbe utilized to support these immediateneeds.


~~    ~




    First reportedto OIE on 8 January 2004.
*   Culling has been imposedto controlthe diseasebut insome cases poultry producers volunteeredtheir flock for culling due to an inability to
    sell as the result of closedpoultry markets.



                                                                  - I -

4.      The government's veterinary, diagnostic and surveillance services were overwhelmedby the
recent HPAIoutbreak, which has highlightedthe needto strengthen the National Action Plan, implement
equitable mechanisms for compensating affected farmers, institute a rapid-response surveillance system
to identify and control animal disease outbreaks, establish a rapid reporting system, expand public
awareness and information relatedto the human healthhazards of zoonotic disease, and develop
strategies for reorganizingthe poultry sector as a means for dealing with future outbreaks.

DamageAssessment

5.      Interms ofeconomic losses, the total cost ofdepopulating poultry from infected areas, along
with the disinfection of farms and bird disposal is estimated to beVND600 billion (US$40 million). In
addition, losses of a similar magnitude resultedfrom upstream and downstream impacts on commercial
and ruralpoultry holders and poultry traders, feed mills, sale of day-old chicks by breedingfarms and
lost production by broiler and layer farms. Containing the epidemic is estimated to have cost the
government VND600 billion. The estimated total damage assessment thus amounts to VND1,800 billion
(US$l20 million), equivalent to 0.3% o f GNP. Incomparison, the estimated project investment cost only
of US$6.2 million suggests a highly favorable economic rate of return for project interventions.
Appendix 2 presents an assessment o f the economic impact of avian influenza epidemic.



                                 11. IDA RESPONSEAND STRATEGY



Responseto Avian InfluenzaEmergency

6.      The government reactedforcefully to containthe HPAIepidemic, once its scope and ferocity
became apparent. It established a multi-ministerial AI SteeringCommittee (AISC) chairedby the
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), Health, Finance, Planning and Investmentand others. A
National Action Plan for the Control o f HPAIwas drafted to provide guidelines for containing the
epidemic, to be implementedby the AI Working Group, comprisingthe various technical animal
husbandry and animal health institutes, the two northern (Hanoi) and southern (Ho Chi MinhCity)
regional veterinary diagnostic laboratories, and the provincial, commune and village level veterinary
services (SDAH). At the commune and village levels, Commune AI Control Committees, comprising
commune leaders, law and order personnel, and animal healthworkers, sampled affected farms and
supervisedthe control of animal movement, cullingand disposal.

7.      As a resulto fthe wholesale culling o f diseasedand unaffectedbirds, albeit at serious cost to the
poultry sub-sector, the government has beenremarkably successful incontaining the HPAIoutbreak.
However, the epidemic has highlightedseveral weaknesses inthe animal health services system.
Diagnostic laboratories were overwhelmed and the six Regional Veterinary Centers (RVCs) provedto be
rather ineffective. The lack o f epidemiological resources prevented strategic culling and control
measures, with the result that culling was likely to have been higher than required. Operatingbudgets
provedto be inadequateto bear the additional cost o f physical and human resources to deal with the
outbreak, a compensation policy for affected poultry holders was lacking and under funded, and the
communications linkages betweenthe central government and its 64 provinces were very weak.




                                                    - 2 -

8.       The response ofthe international community to the epidemic has beensubstantial. WHO, OIE
andF A 0 each sent teams and expertsto assist the government incontainingthe outbreak, andseveral
bilateral assistance agencies andNGOs donated protective clothing, disinfectants and other goods and
services. It is estimatedthat, by end-February2004, some 160person-monthsof expert input had been
provided inorder to deal with the outbreak. As the HPAIepidemic spreadacross SoutheastAsia, FAO,
OIE, and WHO calledtwo regional emergency meetingsto discusscontrol strategies, share information,
andforge linkages betweenthe affectedandnon-affectedcountries inthe region. FA0 approved
regional and country-focusedTCPs to providetechnical assistancewith disease diagnosis and
epidemiological surveillance. Vietnam is presentlyhostingan emergency assistance TCP team
(TCPNIEI3003(E)) to assist MARD/DAH with disease containment strategiesand strengtheningof the
diagnostic system. This TCP project would meshwith the designof the proposedAIERP, which would
provide interventionsto follow the TCP emergency effort now underway.

ResponseGap and the responseby IDA

9.       The World BankADA respondedto a request by the Governmentto preparean emergency
recoveryproject and a World Bank/FAO CooperativeProgrampreparationteam visited Vietnam from
March 3 to 26,2004 to work with MARDIICD to identify and preparethe proposedproject. The Team
collaboratedclosely with a mission from Agence Franqaise de De`veloppement(AFD) that produceda
report onthe HPAI outbreak, its consequences and recovery strategies. The Team also liaised daily with
veterinary diagnostic and epidemiological consultants, inVietnam under the FAO/TCP to advise the
government on recoveryand preventivestrategies. Inview ofthe scope andtiming ofthe FAO/TCP
input, the project designwill buildon its immediate-terminputsby designingamedium-termproject with
a 2-year lifespan.

LessonsLearned

10.      Relevant lessons for the designofthe proposedproject (AIERP) canbe drawn from previous
IDA andFAO-supportedemergencyrecoveryprojectsoutside Vietnam. Most ofthese projectshave
focusedon the supply of planting materials (seeds and fruit trees) and other agricultural inputs. Lessons
learnedindicatethat project success depends entirelyon the speed ofthe inputssupplied. Inproduction
systems, particularly for smallholders, speedy, efficient andtransparent distribution of suitable key inputs
is clearly a major factor in limiting the impact of a crisis and hasteningrecovery. InEast Timor, IDA
supportedanAgricultural Rehabilitation Projectwhich involved the restorationof priority assets,
including poultry and ruminant livestock following the violence that precededthat country's
independence. The same lessons indicatedabove can be useful for AIERP implementation.

11.      Although IDA has not supportedpreviousemergencyprojects inVietnam, it did supporttwo
emergency projects inneighboring Cambodia: the EmergencyRehabilitationProject (Cr. 2550) approved
in 1993, andthe EconomicRehabilitation Project(Cr. 2781) in 1995. A performanceaudit ofthese two
projectsdrew the following relevant lessons. Project design should: (a) be consistent and cohesive, (b)
include no policy reforms, and (c) be simple indesign andtake account of limited Borrower capacity.
Other important lessons from past emergency projects inthe region suggest that: (a) speedof appraisal
and implementationare crucial to project success, (b) procurement needsto be flexible and should begin
at an early stage, (c) mitigation measures should be includedto minimize repeatdisaster, and (d) project
design should remain simple for rapidexecution3.




  From:Gilbert, Roy, andKreimerAlcira, 1999. "Learningfrom World Bank's experience of natural disaster related
  assistance."



                                                       - 3 -

12.      The implementationof the EU-financed Vietnam: Strengthening Veterinary Services Project
(SVSP) was hampered by design complexity well beyondthe capacity of MARDcounterpart staff.
Attempts to address structural and policy issues underthe project failed because government was not
ready for the structural changes proposed. Lessons learned from the project completion review of SVSP
includedthe need for design simplicity, the needto realistically assess counterpart absorption capacity,
and for effective communications. All of the above factors will play a significant role inthe
implementation of AIEW.

Rationalefor IDA involvement

13.      Soon after the onset of the crisis, MARD requested World Bank assistanceto help limit the
spread of the AI outbreak and to consider an emergency recovery operation for Vietnam. MARD
considers that the Bank has an important role to play by helpingthe Government to coordinate donor
assistance.

14.      The Government is very much inneedof expert technical advice on the strategy it should follow
to recover from the present crisis and for the future control of AI. The recent epidemic clearly revealed
the difficulties for veterinary and extension services to cope with an animal health epidemic ofthis
nature. Becauseo f its many years o f close collaboration with MARD, the Bank can communicate
effectively with the GoV bothon agricultural policy and technical matters. Onthe technical aspects, the
Bank has accumulated world-wide experience inthe animal health sector and draws on a strong pool o f
expertise within the SASKIThematic Group, and maintains strong ties to international organizations
such as FAO, OIE and WHO. The Bank has also beeninvolved in longer term matters concerning WTO
accession. The build up o f adequate capacity to meet SPS requirements are o f critical importance for
Vietnam.

15.      The proposed AIEW would provide support only for two years. However, it could also provide
a useful basis for possible longer-term support for development and restructuring of the livestock sector,
perhaps as a component o f a follow-up to the ongoing Agricultural DiversificationProject.



                                     111. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Projectobjectives

16.      The uroiect's overall goal is to addressthe short and medium-termactions to be undertaken by
the Government to strengthenits veterinary surveillanceand diagnostic infrastructure inorder to avoid,
or at least minimize, a recurrence o f AI that would further damage the poultry sub-sector.

17.      The develoument objectives of the proposed project are threefold insupport o fthe National
Action Plan for the control of Avian Influenza Epidemic: (a) to strengthendisease surveillance and
diagnostic capacity inthe control o f HPAI; (b) to strengthen the poultry sector infrastructureto better
cope with serious diseaseoutbreaks; and (c) to safeguard human health by improving public awareness
and information. A project designsummary and log-frame are presentedinAppendix 1.

18.      Long-term involvement. The above objectives should be viewed as the first phase o f a longer-
termprogramaimed at restructuringVietnam's poultry sub-sector and strengtheningthe veterinary
services systemto deal with other potentially destructive infectious disease outbreaks. The proposed
project would therefore serve as a pioneeringeffort to evaluate the methodologies most suitable for
emergency preparedness and longer-term intervention.



                                                    - 4 -

Project Description

          ComponentA -Strengthening animal diseasesurveillance,diagnostic capacity, and
                              highlypathogenic avian influenza virus research

19.     The Componentis designedto strengthenepidemio-surveillancenetwork for animal diseases,
expandand upgradethe existing diagnostic capacity of one centraland four regional veterinary
diagnostic laboratoriesto better identify infectious animaldiseases, and strengthen researchon HPAI
virus. A rapid-responsefield surveillanceandreporting system will be establishedto assist these
laboratories in better identifying andreporting animaldisease outbreaks. Activities under this
component would be carried out by the Departmentof Animal Health (DAH). The component comprises
five subcomponents presentedbelow (see detaileddescription inAppendix 3).

20.     SubcomuonentA. 1- Strengtheninganimal disease surveillance. This subcomponentwill
support both public andprivate veterinary services by developingeffective operatingproceduresat all
levels and training of field staff in detectionand reporting of clinical HPAIdisease. This subcomponent
would be co- financedby the FA0 TCP.

21.     SubcomponentA.2 -Diagnostic capacity upgrading. This subcomponentwill support diagnostic
laboratorycapacity upgradingofthe NationalVeterinary Diagnostic Center (NVDC) inHanoi, andfour
RegionalVeterinary Centers (RVC) locatedinHo Chi MinhCity, DaNang, Vinh and Can Tho. This
subcomponentwould be co- financedby the FA0 TCP.

22.     SubcomuonentA.3 - StrengtheningHPAIvirus research. This subcomponentwill support the
establishment of aVirus ReferenceLaboratory (VRL), through the provision of technical assistance,
laboratoryequipment, reagentand training, to allow for HPAIdetectionandtyping. This subcomponent
would be co- financedby the FA0 TCP.

23.      SubcomponentA.4 - Strategic Studies. This subcomponentwill finance the preparationof two
strategic studies, including the preparationof aNational ContingencyPlan for HPAI; and self-evaluation
of veterinary services. This subcomponentwould be entirely financedunder the F A 0 TCP.

24.      SubcomponentA S -EmergencyOutbreak Containment Plan. The subcomponentwill support
the preparationandfinancing ofarapidmobilization planto respondquickly and effectively to recurring
A I outbreaksinthree project or non-project provincesduring the project lifespan.

                               ComponentB Poultry subsector rehabilitation
                                              -

25.     The Component is designedto support the rehabilitation of the poultry subsector which was
severely affectedby the avian influenza epidemic by providing new Grand-Parent(GP) poultry breeding
stocks andupgradingthe biosecurity of government-ownedGP poultry breedingfarms. A number of
strategic studies will be also conductedto assistpoultry sector development. Activities under this
componentwould be carried out by the Department of Agriculture (DA). The componentcomprises
three subcomponents presentedbelow (see detaileddescription inAppendix 4).

26.      Subcomponent B.1-Breedingstock supplv. Underthis subcomponent a total of 15,000 GP
poultry and ducks would be imported inPY1and PY2 to augmentthe GP stock of twelve (12) poultry
breedingfarms under MARD.4This stock would be specifically suitable for village rearing.


  5 farms managed by NIAH, 1 farm managedby the AgriculturalResearchInstituteof South Vietnam; and 6 farms managed by
  the GeneralLivestockCompany


                                                       - 5 -

Replacement day-old chicks would be suppliedfrom this stockvia multiplier farms to village poultry
holders. The procurementof breedingstock will be conditional onthe completion of satisfactory
biosecurity measures(see subcomponent B.2 below) on those GP farms inwhich the newly arrived GP
stock would be housed.

27.      SubcomponentB.2 -Upgradingbiosecuritv of GP farms. The subcomponentwould support
biosecurity upgradingofthe above-mentioned 12GP poultry farms under MARD, to reinforce their
defenses against future infectious disease outbreaks. Biosecurity upgradingwould encompass the
installation of quarantinefacilities, perimeter security fencing, improved water and waste disposal
systems, personneldisinfection entry units andupgradedlaboratory facilities. Following a preparationof
engineeringbiosecurity and constructiondesigns of all 12GP farms by national consultants, an
internationally recruitedpoultry farm biosecurity specialist would be contractedto review andevaluate
designs, and evaluate biosecurity measures basedon which project-supportedbiosecurity upgrading
would take place. The biosecurity evaluationunder this subcomponentwould be financedby the FA0
TCP.

28.     SubcomponentB.3 - Strategic studies. The subcomponentwould finance two strategy studies on
compensationpolicy, poultry sector restructuring, and a survey ofpoultry losses resulting from the A I
epidemic. The compensationpolicy study would provide a framework for an equitable national
compensationpolicy by which to provide restitutionto producersfollowing serious animal disease
outbreaks. The poultry sector restructuringstudy would provide guidelines to better preparethe poultry
sector to withstand serious disease outbreaks. The poultry losses survey would identify the causes of
poultry culled, either for disease or preventivereasons, inthe ten project provinces. This subcomponent
would be entirely financedunder the FA0 TCP.

                             Component C-Public awarenessand information

29.     The component is designedto safeguardhumanhealth, inparticular for extensionstaff, animal
healthworkers, poultry producersandtheir families, by improving public awareness and information.
The component will be implementedinall ten project provincesand will provide support: (a) to carry out
a needs assessment of existing poultry extensionand public information programs; (b) to develop
community-basedextensionto farmers and enhance public awareness; and (c) to enhance monitoring
and evaluation ofpublic awareness and extensionactivities under the project. Activities under this
component would be carried out by the NationalAgricultural Extension Center (NAEC), incollaboration
with the private sector agri-business poultry enterprises. The component comprisesthree subcomponents
presentedbelow (see detailed description inAppendix 5).

30.      SubcomoonentC.1'-Capacitv Building,inCommunication and Public Information. This
subcomponentwill supportthe needs assessment of veterinary and livestock extension staff at the central,
provincial, district, communeand village levels, the preparationof training programsand materials, the
training oftrainers andthe training of farmers inanimal health andhusbandryandthe provision of
technical assistance including an educationspecialist, an animal health specialist ,ajournalist and a web
developmentspecialist.

3 1.     SubcomponentC.2 -Developing Pilot models for Communitv-basedRaoidCommunication.
This subcomponentwill support atraining course incommunicationsmethodologyfor extensionand
veterinary staff at the provincial level, training oftrainers, needs assessment on communications
requirementsfor poultry producers, the preparationand disseminationof information materials, andthe
provision of communications and information equipment for provinces, districts and communes.




                                                      - 6 -

32.       SubcomponentC.3 -MonitoringandEvaluationof Componentactivities. This componentwill
supporttraining inparticipatory monitoring and evaluationat all administrativelevels, mid-term
evaluationworkshop, development of an action plan for M&E, andreplication of successful models.

                                          ComponentD -Project Management

33.       This component covers project management and will be managedby the AIERPFCU. This unit
will be placedwithin the existing PCU of the IDA-fundedAgricultural Diversification Project, now
under implementation. The PCU will report directly to the Agricultural Project ManagementBoard
(APMB) under MARD, which oversees project implementationof all MARD-associatedprojects funded
by international organizations. The component would finance incrementalPCU investment and
operatingcosts suchas office rental, travel, office equipment, and humanresourcesupport.

ProjectCost and Financing

34.       Pro-iectcost. The total cost of the proposedAIERP is estimatedto be US$6.20 million'
equivalent, with a foreign exchange componentof US$4.20 million equivalent (about 70 percent), and
taxes and duties estimatedat US$0.50 million for taxes (about 8 percent) which will be financed by
Governmentcounterpartfunds.

35.       Project financing. The total financing required is US$6.2million, of which IDA would finance
US$5 million equivalent and FA0 would finance US$0.55 million equivalent, mainly for technical
assistance andtraining. Inaddition, MARD is exploring the possibility of co-financing under the on-
going DanidaAgricultural Sector Programme Support for atotal amount of approximately US$0.45
million which would reduce the need for IDA credit accordingly. The Governmentwould finance the
balance.

                               Table: TotalCost Estimate(includingContingencies)

                                      Component                                     I VND(Million) I ussCOOO) I    Y O

 IA. StrengtheningDiagnostic Capacity, DiseaseSurveillance, and H P A IResearch
                  -    -                                                            I              I          I         I
     A.1. StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance                                              20,470        1,300       21.0
    A.2. StrengtheningDiagnostic Capacity                                               12,509        790         12.8
     A.3. Virus ReferenceLaboratory (VlU) inNIVR                                        6,158         390          6.3
     A.4. Strategic Studies                                                             2,294          150         2.4
     AS. EmergencyOutbreakContainmentPlan                                               2,019          130         2.1
                                                                           sub-total    43,450        2,760       44.6
  B.PoultrySector Rehabilitation
     B.1. BreedingStock Supply                                                          17,847        1,130       18.3
     B.2. Poultry FarmBiosecurity                                                       13,491        860         13.9
     B.3. Strategic Studies                                                             2,154          140         2.2
                                                                           sub-total    33,492        2,130       34.4
  3. Public Awareness and Information
     C.1. Capacity Building inCommunicationsandPublic Information                       9,821         630         10.1
     C.2. Community Public Awareness and Information Campaigns                          2,871          180         2.9
     C.3. Monitoringand Evaluation                                                      2,135          140         2.2




  The total estimatedcost is US$8.0 million ifaUSS1.8 million JSDF Grant is included. Inthe eventthat the JSDF Grant does
  not materialize,GoV has agreedto borrow additionalUS$400,000 under the IDA Credit to finance animaldisease surveillance
  andpublic awarenesscampaignsactivities at the communitylevel, which are critical for the success of the project.


                                                               - 7 -

  36.      ComplementaryFinancing. Inaddition, on May 14,2004, the Bank applied for a JSDF Grant, in
  the amount of approximatelyUS$1.8million, to supportsmallholder recoveryfrom Avian influenzaand
  vigilance against further outbreaks. The JSDF Grant would complementthe AIERP at the local
  (communeand village) level. A final decisionfrom the GovernmentofJapanwill be made only in late
  July, following project negotiations. Inorder to meet the possiblefinancing shortfall, the Government
  has agreed to borrow from IDA an additional US$0.40million (which increases the total to
  US$5 million) to finance animal disease surveillance and public awareness campaignsat the community
  level, which are regardedas critical for the project as a whole. Inthe event that the JSDF Grant is
  approved, this amount would be cancelledor reallocatedto other activities as mutually agreed.

  37.      One of the main objective of the JSDF Grant is to support selected smallholder farmers who
  suffered heavy losses from the avian influenza epidemic and were not compensated with the provision of
  replacementpoultry. This SmallholderPoultry RestockingComponentinvolves the utilization of grant
  funds, to be usedas seed money to restock householdsin some of the 10 project provinces and, if
  warranted, in some non-project provinces. Eachbeneficiary would receive, in-kind packages of young
  poultry or ducklings of a size commensurate with local needs and conditions. The Vietnam Women's
  Union(VWU) and DARDwould select the beneficiaries on the basis of livelihood lost during the AI
  outbreak without havingreceivedother forms of compensation. VWU and DARD would also provide
  poultry management training. The procurementof poultry would be managedby DA and implemented
  by NIAHand GeneralLivestock Company. Poultry would be purchasedfrom AI-free suppliers, certified
. by DAH. Poultry would be distributed with support from the Vietnam Women's Union (VWU) which
  has considerableprior experience inthe distribution of poultry in6 ofthe 10project provinces. The
  component is divided into two set of activities: US$l,OOO,OOO for the grant programand funds for the
  identification ofbeneficiaries,training andtechnical support and monitoring ofthe grant program.



           IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


  ProjectOrganizationandManagement

  38.      Oversight, Coordination and Monitoring of Project Activities. The existing National Steering
  Committee (NSC) for Avian Influenza Control, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural
  Development,will provide generalpolicies and guidelines to project implementation,review annual
  work plans, and ensure coordination and linkageswith relevant agencies. The NSC is composed of
  humanhealth andveterinary agencies taskedwith overseeingnationalAI control and eradication
  operations. Inaddition, Donor coordination is critical for emergencyoperations and would bethe
  responsibility of the International Support Group (ISG) SecretariatinMARD.

  39.      The National Project Coordination Unit(PCU) ofthe on-going IDA-fundedAgricultural
  Diversifcation Project will be responsible, under the overall guidance ofthe NSC, for day-to-day
  implementation, supervision, and project monitoring. The PCUwill be strengthenedby the recruitment
  of additional staff responsible for overall administration, procurement, and financial management of the
  project. It is agreed that at leastone senior officer from eachDAH, DA, andNAEC will be secondedto
  the PCUto guideproject implementation. These officers could be appointedas Project Coordinators in
  charge of the respectivecomponentfor which their line agency is responsible. The PCU, under the
  direction of the NSC, will be responsible for coordinating with DAH, DA, NCAE and other institutions
  to guide andmonitor project implementation at the provincial and local levels. Detailed implementation
  arrangements at the central and provincial levels are presented inAppendix 7.




                                                       - 8 -

Accounting, Financial Reportingand Audit Arrangements

40.     Financial Management Assessment. An assessment o f the PCU's financial management capacity
has been carried out. It has been agreed that the PCU will operate the project's financial management
system to facilitate the project's implementationstart-up as it is familiar with the Bank's policies and
procedures on financial management. A US Dollar Special Account will be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA.

41.     The project will produce a quarterly financial managementreport (FMR). Inaddition, financial
reports between the PCU and PPIUs will be reconciled prior to the preparation of the FMR. Project
accounts will be audited by a recognized independentauditor. The IDA share of eligible expenditures
incurred by the PPrUs will be pre-financed by the government and reimbursed from special account upon
submission o f approved expenditure documentation. In addition, a project financial management manual
acceptable to IDA will be prepared and adopted by the project prior to effectiveness. Fulldetails o f
financial management arrangements are found inAppendix 9.

RetroactiveFinancing

42.     Retroactive financing of up to US$0.3 million may be made for eligible expenditures incurred
after May 15,2004 and prior to the day o f effectiveness. This provision would allow the project to
strengthensurveillance activities at atime when the riskof resurgenceofthe disease is high. The
Borrower is aware o f the conditions for retroactive financing and o f the risks associatedwith any
payments made inexpectation of retroactive financing, provisional agreementwhich does not commit the
Bank to making a loan for the operation or to financing such payments.

Procurement

43.     Procurement Capacitv Assessment. An assessment o f the procurement capacity of the AIERP
PCUwas conducted as part o f the appraisal mission and the capacity was found to be adequate. The
PCU is fully functional and staffed with procurement staff having adequateprocurement experience
gained over the last five years of implementation o f the Agricultural DiversificationProject.
Procurement risks and corrective measures have beenidentified and are presented inAppendix 8.

44.     Procurement Methods and Procurement Plan. The emergency nature of the project requires the
use o f methods that would allow procurement to be conducted inthe shortest possible time while still
ensuringareasonable degree ofcompetition andtransparency. Giventhe smallvalue andnature of
procurement packages, the proposed methods include shopping, procurement from specialized UN
agencies, direct contracting, individual consultants, least cost and consultant's qualification in
accordance with the provisions o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines,April
2004. A procurement plan was developed by MARDduringthe appraisal and has been finalized and
agreed upon duringthe Negotiations (see Appendix 8).

Environmentaland SocialAspects

45.     The project i s designed to assist with recovery o f the poultry subsector in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner. For an emergency credit operation such as this, with insufficient time for
preparingdetailed studies incorporatingenvironmental and social safeguards, mainstreaming social and
environmentalaspects inproject design itself is the preferred approach. The project would have a
positive impact on environmental health, reducingthe risks to laboratory staff by improvingthe safety o f
handling and testing AI sampling at four provincial and two national laboratories that are currently



                                                    - 9 -

engaged insuchwork. The project's assistance to MARDto develop a strategy for managingfuture A I
outbreaksprovides an opportunity to ensure environmentaland social sustainability, intwo areas: (a)
mainstreamingenvironmentalsafeguards into protocolsandprocedures for the culling and disposalof
animals during an outbreak, inparticular by adoptingOIE (World Organizationfor Animal Health)
standards inthese areas; and (b) development ofGoV's policy on compensationfor poultry farmers
affectedby future outbreaks. For each ofthese activities (upgrading laboratory safety and efficiency and
developingthe strategy for future A I outbreaks), the project would enable the adoption and use of OIE
standards. The project includes technical assistance deliveredby FA0 for achievingthese standards. A
more detaileddescriptionof environmentaland social aspects is presentedinAppendix 10.



                                V. PROJECTBENEFITSAND RISKS


ProjectBenefits

46.     The recent A I epidemic has beena financial disaster for Vietnam's commercial poultry industry
andhas also affectedthe livelihood ofmillions of smallholder poultry-keepers. Of atotal of around 12
million farming householdsit is estimatedthat over 70% keep poultry, constituting an especially
important source of householdcash income, especially for women. Moreover, many households inurban
andperi-urban'areasraise 15-20backyardpoultry which provides 7% of cash income for the poorest
quintileof households6.

47.     The main benefitsto the national economy would be the restorationof productive assets and
economic activities, mainly inrural areas, through: (a) the rehabilitation ofthe poultry subsector which
was severely affectedby the epidemic; (b) the strengtheningof Vietnam's animal disease surveillance
system, both public and private, and diagnostic capacity, to identify at the earliest time new PA1
outbreaks; and (c) the provision of information on infectious animal disease outbreaks and advice on
animal healthand safety to extension staff, poultry producers andthe generalpublic.

48.     Project beneficiarieswill include those poultry farmers andtraders who lost their poultry or
ducks as the result of the AI epidemic, and otherswho are protectedagainst such losses infuture. Other
direct benefits include upgradingnational diagnostic capacity by supportingnational and four regional
veterinary diagnostic laboratories with equipmentand training, stocking 12Grand-Parent (GP) poultry
breedingfarms with replacement GP poultry stock, providing increasedbio-security, and institutional
strengtheningofMARDthrough the conduct of strategic studies and surveys.

ProjectRisks

49.     Project risksinthe implementation of short-termemergency recovery operations often tend to be
substantial, and should be dealt with thoughtfully to mitigate as much as possible. The following
potential risks exist inthe implementation ofAIERP:




  Vietnam VHLSS 2002.


                                                   - 10-

   a    Riskfor achievingthe uroiectDevelopmentObjective(DO). After two years the Government's
        institutionalanimalhealthinfrastructure,despiteprojectinputs, may remainstructurally
        incapableof assuringadequatemonitoringandsurveillance(S&M)for avian influenza7(as for
        other animaldiseaseso f epidemic potentialinVietnam*), andhenceincapableo fpreventingor
        early detectionof further AI outbreaks. The Projectwould introducenew operational
        mechanismsto Vietnamfor the monitoringandsurveillanceofepidemic diseases, which may
        needto be further supportedunder a longer-termproject.

   a    Riskfor proiectrelevance. Over the short term a majorrecurrence of AI couldtake place before
        the agencies responsiblehavehadtime to prepare an adequateemergency responseplan, which
        would overtake the timetablefor startingthe proposedproject. The ongoingFAO/TCP, now
        approved, will be assistingthe MARDDAHto prepare and implement suchaplan.

   0    Riskfor proiect sustainabilitv. Governmentcapacity andAI surveillanceandcontrolsystems
        developed under the proposedrecovery projectmay not be adequately maintainedfor lack of
        government budgetsupport. This is an issue that will needto be kept under close review.

   a    Riskfor project sustainabilitv. Replacementpoultrystocks acquiredby beneficiariesunder the
        restockingprogramcouldbe decimatedby a resurgenceofAI, poor managementor other poultry
        diseasesg. The projectactivitiesunder componentsA, B andC would assist inmitigatingthis
        risk.

   0    Riskfor proiect implementationandDO. GoV compensationscheme ofAI-affectedfarmers may
        fail to be implementedin a timely andtransparent fashion, thereby underminingpoultry
        consumer andproducer confidence. This is an issuethat needsto bekept under review.

   a    Riskfor uroiect implementationandDO. Lengthygovernment procurementandbudget
        procedures, in combinationwith WorldBank ProcurementandDisbursementrules, may delay
        the timely acquisitionof project inputs. This is an issue that needsto be keptunder close review
        by APMB andPCU.




'Recentreportof   AFD recommendsa 10-year restructuringand capacity buildingprogram.

 e.g. swine fever, foot andmouthdisease, Newcastle disease, to namethree animaldiseases of majoreconomic importance in
 Vietnam which remainsubstantiallyuncontrolled.

 Normalmortality in backyard scavengerpoultry was reportedbyNIAHat almost 50% p.a.

                                                                                            APPENDIX 1
                             THE SOCIALISTREPUBLIC OFVIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROLEMERGENCYPROJECT


                             PROJECTDESIGNSUMMARY AND LOGFRAME



                             A. PROJECTDESIGNCONSIDERATIONS

1.       As an emergency recoveryproject, the proposedAIERP must respondto three criteria. Itmust
be (a) simple and flexible indesign, (b) ableto disbursequickly, and(d) avoid addressingprevailing
institutional matters.

2.       Design simplicity is an issue inaveterinary services systemwhich requires strengtheningon
many fronts, and which is constrainedby gaps incentral-provincial government coordination. Specific
task implementationassigned to each of the project line agencies, without forging unnecessary,
complicated linkages, may avoid this constraintinthe short run, but will not suffice over the longer term.
 The limitedcommunications betweencentralandprovincial entities poses a specialproblem for rapid
upstreamanddownstreamfield surveillance information flows. Byworking through the four Regional
Veterinary Centers (RVCs) that will be upgradedfor field surveillance, which inturn report to their
northern (NVDC/Hanoi) and southern(HCMC) laboratories,the constraint of coordinating with the 10
project provinceswill be avoided.

3.       DesignFlexibility is best achievedthrough an open-ended project design, under which blocks of
the project credit/grantwould be assigned, under anagreedtimeframe, to groupsof activities andrelated
procurement. The project would, ineffect, be designedas its lifespan progresses, with clearances
obtained for (unforeseen) activities as they arose. The ProcurementPlanplays an important role inthe
open-endedapproach. This design would also lend itselfto addressingthe eventuality that renewed
outbreakstook place inunforeseenplaces during project implementation, so that standbyproject funds
could be releasedquickly to quellsuch outbreaks.

4.       RapidProcurementandDisbursement is of paramountimportanceina successful emergency
project intervention, and often posesthe greatest constraint. Thereforethe entire incrementalPCU
structure for the proposedproject would be appointed'andinplace before effectiveness, to beginwork on
the necessaryprocurementschedules. Inparticular, anexperiencedprocurementofficer, to be funded
under FAO/TCP, has beenhiredto assist the PCUto preparedetailed procurementplans for 2004 and
2005, finalizing procurementguidelines to be includedinthe PIM, and completing key bidding
documents.

5.       Avoiding;existing;institutional constraints is perhaps the most challenging issue to deal with,
especially where such constraints may play a significant role insuccessful implementation. The rather
rigid, centralizedcommandstructure of MARD can make rapid implementationdifficult, unless
disbursementproceduresare streamlined. Suchan arrangement is crucial for the rapid implementationof
the project, under which US$6.2 million hasto be disbursedover two years, with at least 75%
disbursementby the end of December 2005.




                                                   - 12-

                         B. LOGFRAMEAND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS



   Narrative Summary             Key Performance
                                     Indicators             Monitoringand Evaluation     Critical Assumptions

Sector-relatedCAS Goal           Sector Indicators                SectorReports          (from Goal to Bank
                                                                                                Mission)

Strengthenednational        Rapid, effective responseto    DepartmentofAnimal Health, 30V commitmentto
infrastructure against      recurring AI outbreaks         OIE and F A 0 disease      xotecting the poultry
recurrenceof Avian                                         outbreakreportson type A     ndustry and human
Influenza (AI) outbreaks                                   notifiable diseases        Nelfare
and protection of poultry
industryand consumers

   Project Development           Outcome/ Impact                  Project reports     (from Objectiveto Goal)
        Objectives                   Indicators

To (a) strengthen              Restocking without              DAHfield reports         D  TheNAPwill
disease surveillanceand        recurrent AI outbreaks          DAWEpidemiology Unit        establishclear
diagnostic capacity in         Early warning response          field reports               benchmarkson the
the control ofHPAI, (b)        and turn aroundfor              Central and Regional        activation of strategic,
strengthenthe poultry          diagnosis within 1week of       laboratory outputs          national rapid
sector infrastructureto        outbreak                        increased                   response mechanisms
better cope with serious       Restocking of GP poultry        NationalAction Plan         incase ofnewdisease
disease outbreaks, and         farms                           revisedand accepted         outbreaks
(c) safeguard human            National Emergency                                          Theneed for
healththrough public           Contingency Plan for                                        increased, upgraded
awareness and                  HPAIacceptedby                                              diagnostic and
information                    Government                                                  surveillance capacity
                                                                                           i s demonstratedand
                                                                                           implemented
                                                                                           Poultry farmers and
                                                                                           consumers will regain
                                                                                           confidence in poultry
                                                                                           production




                                                      - 13 -

   Output from each           Output Indicators            Projectreports             (from Outputsto
      Component                                                                          Objective)




 1. Establishmentof         30 Community-based           Fieldmonitoringreports:  Risks:
    early warning disease   surveillancenetworksare      PY1  - 50%  coverage of      Delayedactivation
    responsesystem          operational                  designatedprovinces; PY2     Inadequate
                            75% averagemonitoring        -85% coverage                communications
                            coverage inproject           Fieldreports: 90%            betweencentral and
                            provinces                    monitoringcoverage of all    provincial
                            100% monitoring of GP        MARDpoultrybreeding          governments
                                                         farms end-PY1
 2. Rapidimplementation     Rapidresponsetimeto          Fielddiagnostic reports  Risks:
    o f surveillanceand     disease outbreaks            Standardizedfield            Over-centralizationof
    reporting system in     Effectiveimplementation      reporting                    reportingsystem
    project provinces
 SubcomponentA.2 -DiagnosticCapacity Upgrading
 1. CentralNVDC              Equipmentprocuredand        PCUDAHcompletion         Risks:
    laboratory at Hanoi     deliveredwithin 3            report                       Delayedprocurement
    upgraded                monthsof projectonset                                     andtraining
                             Stafftrainedwithin6
                            monthsof projectonset
 2. Four Regional            Equipmentprocuredand
    Veterinary Centers       deliveredwithin 8           report                       andtraining
    (RVC) upgraded           monthsofprojectonset
                             Stafftrainedwithin6
                             monthsofprojectonset
 SubcomponentA.3 -StrengtheningHPAI VirusLaboratory
 1, Virus Reference          Equipmentprocured           NIVR status reports to   Risks:
    Laboratoryat NIVR        Stafftrained                PCU                           Insufficient
    established              Researchprogram                                           collaboration
                             defined                                                   between
                             Acceptable biosecurity                                    NVDCRVCsand
                             measures inplace                                          NIVR


 1. StrategicStudies        NationalEmergency            PCUstatus reportto        Risks:
    Completed                Contingency Planfor         MARDADA                       Conclusionsand
                            HPAIis adoptedby             TORSsubmittedby PCU           recommendationsof
                             Government                  prior to project onset        the studies are not
                             Self-evaluationof                                         implemented
                            Veterinary Servicesis
                             completed


 1. ContainmentPlan         Plancompleted                DA and DAHhave            Risks:
    formulatedand           Emergencysupplies            completedPlanguidelines       Insufficient
    suppliesprocured        procured                                                   communication
                                                                                       betweenDA and
                                                                                       DAH

I                         I                          I




                                                 - 1 4 -

1. GP stock imported         15,000 GP stock delivered     PCU procurement           Risks:
    and successfilly         on time                       completion report            GP stock selected
    disseminated             GP stock suitable for local   NIAH assessmentreport        unsuitablefor
                             production conditions                                      smallholder
                                                                                        production


1. Biosecurity on 12 GP      Biosecurity equipment         DALivestock Company       Risks:
    breedingfarms            and infrastructureinplace     progressreportsto PMU        Biosecurity
    strengthened             within 10 months of                                         standards are not met
                             project onset
                             Biosecurity models for
                             small operatorsavailable


1. Strategic Studies          Study on Compensation        DA progressreports        Risks:
    Completed                 Policy for HPAI is           GP farms acceptingnew         Conlusions and
                              completed                    breedingstock                 recommendationsof
                              Study onPoultry Sector                                     the studies are not
                              Restructuring is                                           implemented




1. TOT training by NAEC     Training reports               Quality oftraining        Risks:
   effective                                               evaluation report             Limited capacity by
                                                                                         NAEC reduces
2. Extension staff trained    Trained staff appointed      NAEC progress report          quality and quantity
                              at NAEC                                                    oftraining

   and multi-media          and messages completed         months of project onset)
   messages prepared




1. Community-based          Notifiable diseases are        ProgressReport            Risks:
   reporting system         reported                                                     Inadequate
   effective                                                                             coordination with




1. Monitoringand            Monitoring and Evaluation      Progress Report
   Evaluation inplace       Workshops are held


1. PCUappointed and           Administrative linkages       MARDreport to WB.        Risks:
  effective                   establishedbetweenPCU         Confirmation of               Delays in appointing
                              and implementation            appointmentby PCU            the Project Director
                              agencieslentities.            before onset of
                              PCUstafftraining              implementation.
                              completed                     PCUreport to MARD and
                                                            WB before appraisal.


                                                    - 15 -

                                                                                                     APPENDIX 2


                                  THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                        AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCY PROJECT

                             ECONOMICIMPACTOF THEAVIAN INFLUENZAEPIDEMIC


                                                   A. INTRODUCTION

1.         Poultrv Subsector Structure. Poultryrepresentsthe secondmost importantsource of meat inthe
Vietnamese diet. Poultryproductioninvolvesthree co-existingproductionsystems: free-range
scavenger, semi-intensive and industrial. Approximately 70% ofthe totalpoultry populationis kept by
smallholder householdsthat produceabout 60% ofthe total broilerchicken, under free-range scavenger
or semi-intensive management. Typically, each smallholder owns 10-20free-range chickens or ducks
andsells a birdoccasionallyto meet cash or domestic needs. Insemi-intensive productionsystems, a
specialized grower typically raises 50-1,000 birds in simple housingand/or enclosures, provides partially
compoundedfeed and, insome cases, vaccinationagainst the mainpoultrydiseases. Finally, industrial
productioninvolvesflocks o ftens o fthousandsof fowl raisedunder total confinementconditionsand
providedwith fully compoundedfeeds, vaccinationandveterinarysupervision.

2.         Upuntilthe 1980~~industrialpoultry enterprises inVietnamwere state-owned. Since the
                                  all
late-1980s severalprivate smallto medium-sizedjoint ventures, oftenwith foreignparticipation,have
beenestablished, with smallfarmers to produceeggs andbroilersfor the domestic market'. The
appearanceof foreigninvestors with advancedtechnology andmarketingskills ledto a decrease in
market share ofthe state-ownedcompanies from an estimated36% in 1995to 15% in 19992. Production
has increasedby an averageof 5% annuallyover the last decadebut is facingdifficulty inkeepingup
with the growthindemand. Long-termmarketpricetrends inVietnamthus show poultrymeat becoming
more expensive thanpork. Domesticdemandgrowthremains so dynamic that there is little prospect of
Vietnambecominganet exporter ofpoultryproducts duringthe next decade.                      .


                                        B. IMPACT OF THE AI EPIDEMIC

                  Table 1-AvianInfluenzaEpidemicinVietnam(as of February24,2004)




              AnimalHealth            No. o f infectedruraldistricts



           Sources: DAH, VNS


'  ~




    The first reportedHPAIinfection (December 2003) was on a foreign-ownedbreedingfarm inthe northernprovinceofHaTay.
    Inmid-2003there hadalready beensuspectedbut unconfirmedcasesofHPAIontwo breedingfarms inthe provincesofHa
    Tay andVinh Phuc.
*   Source: Vietnam, draft Livestock Policy Brief, FAO, mimeo, 2003


                                                           - 16-

3.       HighlyPathogenic Avian Influenza(HPAI). The severe form of avian influenza, termedhighly
pathogenic (HPAI), is one of the two most destructive diseases o f poultry and other domestic and wild
fowl, with flock mortality o f upto 100% inthe case of the H5N1 subtype. Additional, adverse economic
impacts result from trading restrictionsand embargoes placed on infected areas and the public health
implications. HPAIis recognized as a World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) List-AReportable
Disease. Followingthe regional SARS human health scare prior to the HPAIepidemic, the AI outbreaks
caused at least 23 human deaths and a much larger number o f suspectedinfections, and raised fears
among the general public of Vietnam and the region. H5N1 avian influenza virus currently has only a
limitedability to infect humans but their continued circulation increasesthe possibility they might
combine with human influenza virus strains and acquire the potentialto trigger an extremely virulent
human influenza pandemic. This has helpedto focus international concern on the regional epidemic.

4.       Preliminarv Damage Estimates. Giventhe very rapid spread o fthe epidemic throughout
Vietnam, which caught the country's animal health services off-guard, the full extent of damage,
although difficult to gauge accurately, has been a major setback to the poultry industryand has affected
the livelihood oftens ofthousands ofsmallholders. Inadditionto public health concerns, control and
eradication o f HPAIis o f major socio-economic importance.



                                              C. ECONOMIC IMPACT

5.       One method o f assessingthe cost o f the recent avian influenza epidemic is by consideringthe
estimated contribution of the livestock and the poultry sub-sectors to the national product (GDP).
According to Vietnam's preliminary national accounts, the estimated value-added by poultry-raising in
2002 was VND3,700 billion (US$232 milli~n)~constant 1994 prices, equivalent to 1.2 percent o f
                                                          in
GDP. This means that ifpoultry productionfell to zero for a period o fthree months, the direct loss o f
income would have amounted to around VND1,600 billion (US$107 milli~n)~.                         The massive culling
program requiredto eradicate the disease has resultedin losseswell beyondthose producers actually
affected by the disease. A preliminary assessment inthe three provinces o f Vinh Phuc, HaThai and Thai
Binhindicates that ofthe total pre-outbreak poultry populationof25 millionbirds, 22% were culled of
which 80% were healthy birds and 20% were either diseased or had died o f AI. Apparently, many
farmers voluntarily killedtheir birds upon hearingthe news that the disease could be fatal to humans.
The OIErequirement that all birdsbe destroyed within a 3 kmradius o fthe infectedsource further
contributed to the massive overkill.

6.       An alternative methodto assessthe cost ofthe epidemic is to estimate the direct loss inpoultry
production and sales5,the loss o f income by feed suppliersand poultry traders, and the real cost to the
government of controlling the epidemic. An estimated 44 million birds are reportedto have been culled.
 Ifthe averagefarm gatepriceofachickenbeforeAIwas VND20,000, the grossvalue ofpoultry lost in
the crisis would amount to some VND800 billion. According to some observed, losses o f income in
relatedupstream (e.g. feed and drugsupply) and downstream (Le. wholesale and retail distribution)
activities could have been as highas VND600 billion; almost as highas those sustained by poultry
farmers themselves. Containing the AI epidemic is roughly estimated to have cost the Government about

  Equivalentto 17% of the total value of livestockproduction, which was about 6% of GDP.
  Since the crisis was short-livedthere were only limited substitutioneffects on agriculturalproductione.g. from poultry into pig
  productionor other on-farmactivities.
  Includingloss o fsales during the 3-monthmoratoriumon restocking.

  Source:missiondiscussionswith VBARD, the CP Group, andVietnamPoultry Association.


                                                            - 17-

VND400 billion for the hireoftemporary laborfor cullingandclean-upcrews, overtime for policeand
other officials inthe provinces, andhire oftransportationandpurchase of importedmaterials. Thus the
totaleconomic cost ofthe January-MarchAI outbreak is very tentatively estimated, usingthis approach,
to be aroundVND1,SOO billion (US$l20million), or 0.3% of GDP. This is close to the estimate reached
by the macro-economicmethod, but somewhat lower than some earlier estimates7,madewhen the
epidemic was still raging, whichpositedpossible SARS-type effects onthe tourist industry. Such
secondary effects seemto havebeenavoided: obviously,they wouldhave madethe economic cost much
higher.

7.        The distributionofthis cost throughout the populationis nottotally clear, since data are lacking
on the incidence ofthe HPAIepidemic amongdifferenttypes o f poultry producer. There are some
indicationsthat the semi-intensive smallholder poultryunits(keeping 50 to 1,000 birds) were hardesthit
by the disease. However the cullingcampaignsandmarketshut-downshit all producers, including
smallholderowners offree-range scavenger chickens. Incomefrom sellingpoultryandeggs is more
significantamongthe poorest quintileofthe population, inwhich households derive an averageof 7.1%
o f total cash income from this source.' Poor consumers inparticularsuffereda loss as a result of the
absence of poultrymeat andeggs fromthe market andthe 30-40% temporary increase inprice of
substituteproducts duringthis period. Although at the time ofthe missionmarketprices for poultryand
other meats onthe mainretail markets appearedto bereturningto close to pre-AIlevels, the possibility
o f shortages and further pricespikes shouldnot be excluded.



                                                 D. CONCLUSION

8.     The distributionalimpact also depends on the compensationpolicythat will eventuallybe
implementedby the Government. The planis that all owners ofpoultrydestroyedby AI or culledwill
receivea compensationof VND5,OOO per adultbirdor VND2,000 per immaturebirdg.Insome cases
several provinces have electedto top-up this amount by another VND10,OOO. For poultryfarmers, the
amount o f compensationactuallyreceiveddependson where they live andwhen they actually receive
payment. It appears that insuch matters considerable flexibility of interpretationis leftto the provinces.
It is importantfor future controlof HPAIthat the Government's compensationscheme be implemented
fairly andpromptly.

9.     Inconclusion, as longas the recentepidemic does notrecur, the overalleconomic impactmayhave
cost VietnambetweenVND1,500 and 1,800 billion (US$lOO-120 million), or an estimated 0.3% of GDP.
Evenat this highcost, the economic impactwas less serious than first estimated becausethe epidemic
was containedmore quicklythan many observersthought possible anddid not requireculling of entire
poultry flocks, except ina few limitedareas. However, it appears that loss of incomemay havebeen
absolutelyandrelativelymore serious for the specializedproducers, especially semi-intensivebackyard
producers.




  e.g. PreliminaryEstimateofthe Cost of Avian Influenza,World Bank, Hanoi, February2004

  Datafrom GSO's Vietnam HouseholdLiving StandardSurvey of 2002.
  See Governmentletter # 452"N-KH of'16 March 2004 (Annex 7, Appendix 1)


                                                        - 18-

                                                                                            APPENDIX 3

                             THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROLEMERGENCY PROJECT


         COMPONENTA       - STRENGTHENING      DISEASESURVEILLANCE,      DIAGNOSTICCAPACITY
                                      ANDHPAIVIRUS RESEARCH


                                           A. INTRODUCTION

1.       Since the Governmentof Vietnam first declaredthe presence of highly pathogenicavian
influenza (HPAI), an estimated44 million poultry have either died of the disease or have been culled for
reasons of disease control or economics. Lacking the necessary fine-tuned emergency disease response
plans, surveillance systems, diagnostic capacity and data analysis capability to deal with the outbreak by
means of selective, strategic containment,the Governmentadopteda policy of depopulatinglarge areas
inwhich both infectedandnon-infectedpoultry were culled. All poultry movementwas halted, live-
poultry marketswere closedand stringent disinfection andother biosecurity measures were introduced.

2.       Since,early March2004, these control measures have been relaxedon a province-by-province
basis whenever it is observedthat 30 days have elapsed since the last outbreak. It is unlikely, however,
despite the presentdisappearance of the disease, that the virus has beentotally eliminated from the
country. It is inthis period of renewedactivity, andparticularly when restockingof infected areas is
allowed to start that the veterinary and other supportingforces of Government must be particularly alert
to any re-emergence of the infection. To permit early warning of, to limit, andto be able to quickly
contain any resurgence of HPAIthe Governmentis refining its National Action Planand has issued
preliminary guidelines (see below). For this plan to be effective it must rapidly strengthen its diagnostic
and surveillance capacities.



                                     B. NATIONAL ACTION PLAN

3.      The National Action Plan (NAP), preparedand promulgatedby the Departmentof Animal Health
(DAH) andsignedinto Decree by the Government, forms the framework on which the national AI
control strategy is basedand was promulgatedofficially on 18 March 2004. The NAP guidelines
outlined below describe indetail the actions to be taken during the recovery period, before restockingis
to commence.

4.      The NAP, inaddition to the existing regulationsfor dealingwith outbreaksof AI as set out in
BNN/TY of 5* February 2004, will assist inthe timely and economic recovery of the poultry sub-sector
to normal healthand function. These guidelineswere issued for the attention of all divisions ofthe
DAH, the Sub-departments ofAnimal Health (SDAH) ineach Province, District andCommune, andall
poultry producersand local administrations. The project will assist the Governmentinrefining the NAP
and indevelopinga comprehensiveNational EmergencyContingencyPlan for HPAI.

5.      Insummary, the currentNAP providesguidanceon "Inspection andHygiene Conditions to be
Applied inthe RecoveryPeriod": (a) ininfected areas, includingthe use of sentinel flocks infarms
originally holdingmore than 500 birds; and (b) inbreedingfarms supplying day-old chicks or eggs for



                                                   -19-

hatchingwill be subject to routine serum samplingof their flocks.

6.       The Regional Veterinary Centers (RVC) are responsiblefor the collection of samples from the
state-ownedfarms andjoint-venture farms, while the Provincial sub-DepartmentsofAnimal Health will
be responsiblefor collecting the samples from all private farms and holdings involved, and delivering
them, inproper andtimely manner, to their RVC for testing.



                          C. SUPPORTPROPOSEDUNDER THE PROJECT

7.       The AIERP would support five areas of activity:

    b    Strengthendisease surveillance from commune to central level, to encourage rapid detectionof
         any new cases that may occur and assist ina swift responseto contain any new outbreaks;

    b    Upgradethe diagnostic capacity at the NVDC national diagnostic laboratory inHanoi and four
         RVCs (Can Tho, Ho Chi MinhCity, DaNangandVinh), to enhance the capability o fthe
         veterinary service to accuratelydiagnose HPAI;

    b    Establisha Virus Reference Laboratory (VRL) underNIVRto conduct researchandtyping of A I
         and other pathogenicviruses, to establishvirus prevalencepatterns andpathogenicityandto
         assist MARD inthe designand implementationof adequate control and eradicationstrategies;

    b    Conduct two strategic studies onthe preparationof aNational EmergencyContingency Planfor
         HPAI, including an updateofthe National Action Planto control AIEpidemic, anda self-
         evaluationofVeterinary Services; and

    b    Develop EmergencyOutbreak ContainmentPlanfor three provinces, under which disinfectants,
         transport, manpower and other necessary resources can be made available rapidly to reachan
         infected are and institute containment.

SubcomponentA.l- StrengtheningAnimalDiseaseSurveillance

8.       The subcomponentwill supportthe following activities.

9.       Improving information flow. DAHintends to develop an areanetwork to facilitate the monthly
transmissionof disease report data from the Provinces, using the modified TAD info-reportingsystem
createdfor DAHunder the SVSV project for routine and emergencydisease reporting. The AIERP
would supportthe costs of the requisite computerizationofthe Provincial Offices, preparationof
manualsandtraining o f staff.

10.      Detection, reporting and follow-up of suspect cases. By far the most frequent interaction with
farmers i s provided by commune level animal healthworkers, who have beenmobilized during the
epidemic as communeAIteams. They are essentially private practitioners although some receive
monthly allowancesfrom the governmentand participate inpreparationofmonthly disease reports. The
quality of disease surveillanceprovided by these workers is very variable, and it can be difficult for them
to raise an alert when a notifiable disease is suspected. The proposedproject activity will support efforts
to improve their effectiveness:

         Communitv-basedSurveillanceNetworks. At the community level, an early warning system will
         be establishedto support a robustemergencyreporting and feedback system againstnotifiable
         diseases. A critical objective ofthis sub-component will be to improve the commitment of all
         participantsto the "epidemiological surveillancenetworks". Veterinarianswithout Borders



                                                    -20-

        (VSF) andthe National InstituteofAnimal Husbandry(NIAH)have establishedandtested since
        June 2002 two pilot epidemio-surveillance networksat the district level intwo provinces. Both
        schemes focus on skills development, but neither scheme hasyet addressedthe issue of rapid
        emergencyreporting for notifiable diseasesandthis element will needto be built inunder the
        presentproject. The project will supporttraining for animalhealthworkers, andthe treatment of
         infected animals andreporting procedures. Farmerswill receivehands-ontraining indetection
        ofclinical signs. The project will provide basic bio-security equipmentsuch as sprayers,
        protective equipment, inplaces where this has not already beensuppliedunder other emergency
        response programs.

    0   Public Veterinaw SurveillanceNetworks. The proposedproject will also help strengthenthe
         linksbetweenDistrict Veterinary Stations,private veterinary andparaveterinarypractitioners,
        andproducer associations. Itwill support samplingand laboratory testing inthe event ofa
        suspected case. Inthe event of a suspected outbreak, rapid access will be provided to an
        emergency disease control fund by a procedurethat is consistent across provinces. The AIERP
        will also supportthe continuation of incrementaltravel costs, to enable structuredand
        conscientiousmonitoring at commune level. Itwill also be importantto seek a mechanismfor
        continuingto fund an increasedveterinary presence at the commune level, since this will be
        important to the success ofthe community level networks. The project will also finance a
        vehicle for DAHfield surveillanceand coordination, the preparationand distribution of
        operatingmanualsandthe training of field staff. Clearly, there is an important needfor training
         inthe various aspects of inspection, disease recognition, anddifferential diagnosis; and in
         swabbing, bleeding, handling, recording, storing andtransportingsamples for laboratory
        diagnosis. Training of Trainers' (TOT) courses could first be organizedwith staff ofthe
        RegionalVeterinary Centers (RVCs), these staffwould then go on to train -on a province by
        province basis -selected provincial and district staff, and possibly even some ofthe private
         sector veterinarians animal healthtechnicians operatingat commune level.

11.      Routine SerologicalSurvevs andEpidemio-Surveillance. Activities to be supportedby the
proposedproject include:(a) sero surveillance, to assess whether disease freedom has been achievedand
preferably prior to restocking. The project will support collecting andtesting of samples and feedbackto
farmers; (b) sampling, of"survivors", through randomserological/cloacalsamplingdone on wild birds
and poultry surviving inand arounddepopulatedareas to confirm whether any active virus remains inthe
area, prior to them beingallowed to restock; (c) market inspections, inaddition to the routine inspection
of markets andthe check-pointinspectionscurrently active on the roads, some randomswabbingof
poultry -particularly of breeds usedinextensive production systems -will be done at the major
wholesalemarkets; and(c) monitoring,of farms. The 12MARD-operated GP poultry breedingfarms
would be monitored and regular field S&Mwould be implementedinthe service areas surroundingthe
RVC laboratories indicated. The detail cost ofthe sub-component is presentedinTable 101 of Costab.

SubcomponentA.2 -UpgradingDiagnostic Laboratory Capacity

12.      Inorder to support the programofsero surveillanceoutlined above andto provide rapidand
accurateresponse to suspectedHPAIcases, the National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (NVDC) inHanoi
and four RVCs (Ho Chi MinhCity, DaNang, Can Tho andVinh) will be provided with essential
equipment and training that have not been provided by other sources. The detail cost of the sub-
component is presentedinTable 102of Costab.

13.      Equipment. The proposedproject will finance the purchaseof equipments for NVDC and four
RVCs. A list has beenpreparedby FA0 specialists and will be refined prior to project effectiveness.




                                                   - 21 -

14.      Training,and TechnicalAssistance. Staff of the project-supportedlaboratorieswill receive
trainingrefreshertraining inthe accurate andefficient conduct, calibration, andtroubleshootingof
various diagnostic HPAItests. Since there will be a very considerablevolume of important samplingand
testingto be done during the next three to six months, and since it is vital that these tests are up and
runningbeforethe second wave of A I outbreaksemerges during the restockingphase, DAHwill invite
the assistanceofexperiencedlaboratorytechnologiststo provide on-the-jobtraining andsupportto the
staff of the HanoiNVDC and the 4 project RVCs.

Subcomponent A.3 Veterinary ReferenceLaboratoryfor HPAI research
                     -

15.      The NIVRVeterinarv Reference Laboratory (VRL). The proposedproject will supportNIVRin
strengtheningHPAIresearchto include laboratorycapacity to performtyping ofthe Nantigen of the
Avian Influenza virus (it can already do Htyping) usingthe neuraminidasetest. Project funds will be
usedto equip the VRL andtrain VRL staff accordingly. ConstructionofVRL, will be carried out with
Governmentcounterpartfunds and is not included inthe project. However, the VRL would be
constructedat internationally acceptablestandards, to be monitored by project-supportedFA0 experts.
The sponsoringagency NIVRwill provide the Bank with assurances that construction at acceptable
standards will be undertaken. The Project will not finance facilities and equipmentto be usedfor live
animal pathogenicitytesting. The detail cost of the sub-componentis presentedinTable 103 of Costab.

Subcomponent A.4 -Strategic Studies

16.      Two strategic studies will be carried out under this subcomponent: (a) the preparationof a
National EmergencyContingencyPlan for HPAI, including an updateof the National Action Planto
control A I Epidemic; and (b) a self-evaluationofveterinary services, following OIE standards on quality
and evaluationofveterinary services. To meet internationalrequirements, veterinary services needto
develop and document appropriate proceduresand standards for the implementationand management of
animal healthmeasures and international veterinary certification activities. Detailedterms ofreference
are being preparedand will be included inthe PIM. These studies would be financedby the FAO/TCP.
The detail cost ofthe sub-component is presentedinTable 104ofCostab.

SubcomponentA.5 -EmergencyOutbreakContainmentPlan

17.      The preparationof an EmergencyOutbreakContainment Plan, comprising a rapid mobilization
planto respondquickly and effectively to recurring A I outbreaks inthree project or non-project
provinces duringthe project lifespan. The Plan, to be developedby DAHandDA, would contain
guidelines for the rapid activation ofphysical and humanresources to respondquickly to an outbreak.
Physicalresources, supportedby project funds, would comprise farm and burial disinfectants, sprayers
andprotective clothing. Humanresourceswould entail the identification of, and project-supported
contingency allowances for, of persons to be activated, incase of need. The detail cost ofthe sub-
component is presentedinTable 105 of Costab.



                                        D. RISKASSESSMENT

18.      The key risks involved in implementing this Componentare:

    0    Delayedarrival ofthe requisite equipment and training, after the secondwave of disease will
         have once more overwhelmedDAHresources. However, the DAH'Splan to delay restockingfor
         three monthsgives some respite, andthe FA0 TCPs shouldalso have got some key initiatives
         underway by then;


                                                    - 22 -

   0 Lack of incentive for field staff to properly conductthe immediateand future surveillance
     programs proposed. The proposedsupport to operationalcosts inrespect of supplementationof
     travel allowances, should act as an attractiveincentiveto participate;

   0 Time neededto establishand oDerationalisethe commune level surveillance networks. The
     increasedveterinary manpowerresources requiredto initiate this activity, as well as for the sero-
     surveillanceto be funded underthe AIERP, will allow a heightenedlevel of vigilance to continue
     while the capacity of animalhealthworkers and farmers is developed;

   0 Reluctanceto announce suspectednew outbreaks. For various understandablereasons, there can
     be unwillingness to raise the alarm about HPAI, and delay inreporting allows the disease to
     spread. However, the appraisalmission was encouragedby the fact that a suspectedoutbreak
     during its stay inVietnam was reportedquite quickly inthe national press;

   0 Inabilitv ofthe laboratoriesto coDe with the peakdemands for serologicaltests. As yet, the
     volume of blood samples to behandledhas not been quantified. However, once trained and
     familiar with the ELISA procedures, a laboratorytechnician shouldbe able to cope with 1,800
     samples a day, usingthe equipmentto be provided. With 4 RVCs andthe NVDC fully activated,
    this could equate to about 270,000 samples a month, which shouldbe sufficient capacity; and

   0 RiskofReintroduction ofthe Disease. Other outbreakscould either arise from within the
     country or from outsidethe country, either by importation of poultry or from wild birds.
     Thereforethe surveillancesystemneeds to be attunedto detectinginternal sources ofvirus and
     preventingthe disease from spreadingout from a newly introducedsource.

19.  Issues. The following issues will need to be addressedduring project implementation:

   0 Institutional Issues. While an emergency operationdoes not intendto address long-term
     institutional aspects, there are significant structural issues that haveto be managed ifemergency
     responses to animal diseases are to be effectively implemented. Inparticular, there is a needto
     identify the institutional obstacles to effective emergencyresponse and, in the provinces where it
     will be undertaken, findways of modeling a workable solution. These questionswill be
     addressedwhen designingthe contingency emergency plan for HPAI. Most contingency plans
     are outcome oriented, and are characterizedby simplicity inmanagement and authoritiesrequired
     to deliver;

   0 Sustainabilitv Issues. The sustainability issues are linked to a long-term national strategy for
     epidemic disease control inthe poultry sector which will be supportedby the proposedproject;
     and

   0 Information Flows. Effective information flows are critical for the success ofthe project. Every
     effort shouldbe made to ensure that the upstreamand downstreamflows of diagnostic and field
     monitoring information are set up at the earliest possible moment. The SDAHs ineach province
     will be responsiblefor this mechanism, and each SDAH shouldclearly identify a person
     responsiblefor information flow. An Information Coordinator shouldbe appointed ineach
     SDAH, with counterpartsineach RVC, who communicatesclosely with those responsiblefor
     implementingthe awareness and information campaign.




                                                  - 23 -

                                                                                        APPENDIX 4

                            THE SOCIALIST REPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                    AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROLEMERGENCYPROJECT


                       COMPONENTB POULTRY
                                       -            SUBSECTOR REHABILITATION



                                         A. INTRODUCTION

The Extentof NationalPoultryLosses

1.      The governmentestimates that, accordingto the most recent information,atotal of44 million
poultry diedas a resultofthe AI or were culledinpreventative measuresimplementedduringthe
outbreak. Ofthis number, the semi-intensive/backyard poultry segment lostbetweenten andfifty
percent. This suggests that somewhere between4 and 19millionbirdshave beenaffectedinthe
smallholdersector alone. Assuming an averageholdingof fifty birdsper householdbeforeAI, between
80,000 and 380,000 smallholder householdsmay havebeenaffected nationally.

2.      There are no reliabledata as to the breakdowno fthe number of poultrythat were lost from
parentbreedingstock inmultiplierfarms inthe privateand public sectors, or ofthe proportionof broilers
lost incomparisonwith layers. The projectwill support a poultry losses survey inthe tenproject
provincesto determinethe exact causes anddistributionofpoultrylosses from the epidemic.

3.      Recovery inthe worst hit provinces is also likely to be delayedby uncertaintyover the
resurgenceof HPAI, so that the recovery itselfwill be patchy. Day old chick (DOC) producers insome
areas will not returnto productionquickly, so that the availablesupply ofDOC for growers wishingto
restock may remainlow for sometime. Growersmay also be reluctantto restock untiltheir risk is clear,
(a) the biosecurityandAImonitoringmeasuresfor large andsmallDOC producers are inplace, (b) DOC
suppliers are registeredto producedisease-freebirds incompliancewith AI controlprocedures, and (c)
satisfactoryenforcement of a safe clearance -restockingintervalof destockedDOC suppliers.

Government Institutionsinthe PoultrySector

4.      The DepartmentofAgriculture(DA) underMARD controlsabout halfof market share in
nationalpoultryproduction(Table l),which MARD has an approximate20% share. With the
                                      of
exceptiono f one GP farm inHo ChiMinhCity, these breedingfarms are located inthe Northern
provinces. TheNIAHowns andoperates five farms (with the Thuy Phuongpoultryresearchcentre the
largest), while MARD operates sevenfacilities heldby GeneralLivestockCompanies. The variety o f
breeds o fGP poultrystock heldonthese farms is supposedly adaptedto local village conditions. The
commercialGP stock is raisedmainlyfor crossbreedingwith nativechickens for dualpurpose scavenge
raisingandfor small-scale, semi-intensiveproduction. NIAHreportskeepingmost (60-70%) ofthe
foundationstock inVietnamto supply smallholderswith chicks ofthis poultrytype.

5.      The GP stock raisedonthe 12state-ownedfarms supplies the many multiplier unitso fthe
provincialadministrationswith parentbirds.MARD reports 106operationalprovincialunits in51
provinces. These inturnsupply smallholdersthroughoutVietnamwith grower day-oldchicks (DOC), at
a cost ofabout VND3,500 each, somewhat less than the VND5,OOO eachfor the commercial(white)


                                                  - 24 -

DOC the private breedingfarms supply. NIAHestimatesthe output of parent stockfrom the state-run
farms to be somewhere between 150,000 and 180,000 DOC per year andhavingthe potential of
multiplying to 16-20 million grower DOC annually. The GP breedingstock (yellow-featheredKabir,
Sasso and Color Redbro strains) needs replacingevery two years and the parent stock eachyear ifthis
breedingresources is to remainproductive and true to type. However, it has beenfour years since
Vietnam last imported new GP stock and the genetic quality of this stock has significantly deteriorated
and is below optimal quality.

Private Sector Involvement in the Poultry Sector

6.      The commercial sector is dominatedby a few foreign-ownedpoultry companies. These
enterprises raise their own parentstock and supply the industry inVietnam with broiler and layer DOC,
primarily under contract growing arrangements. Farmsproducing broilers predominate,but the smaller
broiler parent farms also producetable eggs as well as grower chicks, so that the distinction betweenegg
and broiler producersinthe commercial(and state) sector is blurred. MARDreportsthat layersrepresent
no more than one quarter of all poultry kept inthe state and commercialunits. The commercialsector is
estimatedto have half a millionparent stock intotal, down 150,000 birds lost or culled due to AI, but
with an annualoutput capacity of sixty million DOC remaining. State and private units may therefore
have a combinedannualDOC capacity of about 186 millionDOC from all sources (Table 1).

         Table 1. Vietnam Poultry Sector-BreedingStockand EstimatedAnnual DOC Production




            1. Commercial sector
             Commercial - largecompanies\l
             Other breeder farmsn




            I/IncludesCP Thailand,Cargill,Javaconfeed,Proconco.
           2/lncludesprivateproducers of about 250,000 DOCperyear.
            3/ Operatedby M R D and Ho Chi Minh City.
            Chickproduction assumes I10female DOC/breeder year.
           Source: DepartmentofAgriculture, M R D Hanoi

7.      Individual small commercial layer farms keepa maximum of20,000 hens, with 23,000 private
production farms registeredinVietnam which produce2,000 broilers per batch" andthree to four
batches annually.

Government's Emergency Response

8.      On 3 March2004, the Office ofthe Prime Minister issued a directive inwhich a number of
recovery initiatives were suggested. The documentassigned to MARD to take the leadrole inAI
recovery and instructedthe National People's Party and several ministries" to collaborateinpreparing


loAFD MissionReporton Avian InfluenzainVietnamMarch2004.

"IncludingtheMinistriesofFinance,AgricultureandRuralDevelopment,InvestmentandPlanning,Trade, Scienceand
  Technology, NaturalResourcesandthe Environment, and the State Bank.


                                                      - 25 -

their response. MARDreacted`* onMarch 16th2004, ina letter inwhich it outlined the policy and
recommendationsit would support for assistingthe sector recover, the main elements of which are given
inthe Attachmentto this Appendix.

Assessmentof the Government's CompensationPolicy

9.       The preparationmission's assessmentofthese recovery proposalssuggests that they may be
inadequateinterms of equity and inproviding poultry raiserswith areporting incentive inthe event of
future outbreaks. The compensationpayments may inmany instances betoo little too late:13

    e    Fullcompensationvalue for birds culled or dead from HPAIhas takenplace inonly nine most
         seriously affected province^'^. There is noprovision for paying compensationto provinces other
         than those listed;

    e    The remaining 55 provinces are thus requiredto compensate entirely from their provincial
         disaster relieffunds from which some wealthier provinces havealready paidsome compensation
         to farmers. The provincial disaster relief funds are generally small, however, and some were
         exhaustedin financing the culling, clean-upandpolicing of markets andpoultry movement.
         Some provinceshave borrowedadditional sums to completethe work15;and

    e    Evenwith centralbudget support, provincial governmentswould find it difficult to ensure that
         smallholdersare compensatedequitably, becausebackyardpoultry raisers, the most vulnerable of
         small-holders, have lower industry andpolitical profiles than those inthe commercialsector and
         are likelyto be left untillast.


                           B. SUPPORT PROPOSEDUNDERTHE PROJECT

10.      The proposedproject would support the rehabilitation ofthe poultry subsector through the
following three subcomponents. The detail cost ofthe sub-componentis presentedin Table 2 of Costab.

Subcomponent B.1- BreedingStock Supply

I1.      Day-old chicks of improved, adapted poultry and duck breeds will become availablefrom the
Parent offspring of newly importedGP stock financed under the project, and would enter small semi-
intensive, backyardunits. Restockingis premisedon the assumptionthat enoughnative poultry breeding
stock are locally available as a source of birds for this purpose.

12.      Semi-intensive smallholders and backyardvillage poultry raiserswill needreplacement birds as
soon as restockingbegins. NIAH(5 farms) and MARD(7 facilities, heldby the GeneralLivestock
Companies), are the repository of severalbreeds of GP poultry stock specifically adapted for village
conditions - crossbreedingwith native chickens for dual purpose scavenge raising, and small-scale, semi-
intensiveproduction. This GP stock provides the many multiplier farms of the provincial administrations
with parent birds which inturn supply smallholdersthroughout Vietnam with grower chicks.



"MARDOfficialLetter#452/BNN-KHofMarch162004.

l3Since this Annex was prepared, the Governmenthas allocatedVND 200 billion for nationalcompensation, of which halfhas
  beendistributed,

l4Saigon, Hanoi, Hatay, Hanam, Vinh Phuc, Baria-Vungtau,Longan, Dongnai,Tiengiang.

IsFor example, Thanh Vinh Commune inDinhTrung Provincehasexpendedits VND 13 millionemergencybudgetbut has an
  emergency procedureswages bill of VND 70 Millionoutstanding.


                                                         - 26-

13.      Replacingthe existingGP birds will reinvigoratethe quality of the grower stock output, making
this an importantinitiativefor the small-scalepoultry industryover the mediumand longer term. Subject
to farmcapacity, 15,000 GP DOCSandducklingswouldbe importedto replacethe current breedersover
two years. Four years of highquality replacements for the oldparent stockheldon the provincial
multiplier farms will thenbe possible. Grower availabilityfromnewly introducedGP stock will begin
eighteenmonthsafter importation. The leadtime betweenDOC introductionandthe releaseof
significantnumbers ofgrower stock may be as longas 28 months.

Subcomponent B.2 -Upgrading the Biosecurity of GP Facilities

14.      Provisionwould be madefor upgradingthe biosecurityat the 12GGP andGP breedingfarms
operatedby MARD andNIAH. The Projectwill finance for eachfarm: a personneldisinfectionunit, a
quarantine unit, a clean-water system, disinfectants,sprayers, protectiveclothing, fencingandother items
essential for ensuringaneffectivedisease containmentbarrier. Furthermore,vaccination for AI would be
consideredfor all stock ofthe 12GGP andGP farms, shouldthe governmentclear the way for such
vaccination. Nationalengineeringconsultants will preparebiosecurityassessmentandconstruction
designs for each ofthe 12farms. Priorto introducingthe biosecuritypackagesfor each breedingfarm, a
biosecurityspecialistwill reviewthe assessmentandthe constructiondesignfor each GP farms to make
recommendations for improvement. Bothconsultants will be project-supported, the biosecurityspecialist
will be financedby the FA0 TCP. As a conditionalityto protectingnewly importedGP breedingstock
from infectiousdisease, includingAI, all 12project farms musthavecompletedtheir upgradingina
satisfactorymannerpriorto the arrivalof importedbirds.

15.      Biosecuritymodels for smallandmediumsize poultryfarms will also be developed under the
project(Component C) and disseminatedthroughthe publicawarenessandextension programs.

Subcomponent B.3 - Strategic Studies

16.      This subcomponent involvestwo strategy studies on compensationpolicy, poultry sector
restructuring,anda survey of poultry losses resultingfromthe AI epidemic. The compensationpolicy
study wouldprovidea frameworkfor an equitable nationalcompensationpolicyby whichto provide
restitutionto producersfollowing serious animaldiseaseoutbreaks. The poultrysector restructuring
study wouldprovideguidelines to better preparethe poultry sector to withstandserious disease
outbreaks. The poultry losses survey would identifythe causes ofpoultry culled, either for disease or
preventivereasons, inthe 10projectprovinces. Detailedterms ofreferenceare beingpreparedandwill
be includedinthe PIM. These studies wouldbe financedby the FAO/TCP.



                                       D. RISKASSESSMENT

17.      The mainrisks and issues associatedwith this Componentare:

    0    UnsuitableGP breedingstock. The resupplyo f grandparentbreedingstock may notproduce a
         type of poultry suitedto smallholderconditions. Missionobservations suggest, however, that
         poultryproducedas F2 frompreviouslyintroducedGP stock is suitableunder semi-intensive
         conditionsbut probablynot as backyardscavengers;

    0    The t w e ofGP poultw breedingstock is important, especiallywhere these will formthe genetic
         resource for smallholderrestocking; and

    0    Disease-free replacement chicks for restockingis vital. Identification,monitoringand
         certificationofparticipatingbreedingunits, however small, will be important.


                                                  -27-

                                                                                        APPENDIX 4
                                                                                            Attachment
                      SUMMARY OF OFFICIAL LETTERNO.452/BNN-KH
                                        DatedMarch 16,2004
                                        (Unoflcial Translation)


Supportto Smallholders Involving
1. Directper-birdcompensationof 5,000 VND per maturebird, 2,000 VND per bird for other poultry,
    500 VND for quail. Eggswould attract compensationof 300 VND with anadditional 1,000 per bird
    payableto cover the cost ofcleaningandensuringenvironmentalprotection.Between50,000 and
    100,000 VND would be paidper personday to finance the cost of cleanup labor.
2. Reimbursemento fthe entirefeed cost of Governmentbreedingcenters for the four months
    December-March, andthe entirecost of diagnosingthe virus on state andprivatefarms.

RecoveryPolicies
1. Budgetary support for cleaningand sanitizinggovernmentfacilitiesneedingrestocking,
2. Budgetary support for replacementbreedingstock (50 - 100%) for the first cyclefor commercial and
    smallholder poultryraisers.
3. Interestrate subsidy (50%) for a total o fthree monthsto cover restockingof large and small
    commercial productionenterprises.
4. Budgetsupport for restockinggovernmentfarms andto importbreedingstock for them.

Responsibilitiesof MARD
1. MARDto follow up on the epidemiologyof AI andto determinepoliciesto containandto minimize
    the effectof a secondoutbreak, andto cooperatewith provincialauthorities
2. MARDto rehabilitatepoultry development nationallyby strengtheningveterinary services,
    improvingdisease surveillanceandforecasting, and improvingtechnicalinfrastructure.

Responsibility of Ministry of Planningand Investment
    The Ministry to give priority to supplementingthe budgetfor strengthening the laboratories for
research anddiagnosis ofAI.

Responsibility of the State Bankof Vietnam
    The StateBankthrough itsnational, provincialandsub-provincialnetwork,to conduct a survey o f
the borrowingdifficultiesfaced by the smallholderand larger commercialpoultryproducers and
livestockcompanies.

Responsibility of Provinceand City People's Committees
    To organizeAI preventionlocally, prepare recovery plans, develop poultry flocks andto implement
policiesonpoultryrecovery anddevelopment.




                                                  - 28 -

                                                                                          APPENDIX 5

                              THE SOCIALISTREPUBLIC OFVIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCYPROJECT


                        COMPONENT c-PUBLICAWARENESS             AND INFORMATION




                                          A. INTRODUCTION

Background

1.      Responsibilities for nationwide extensionand awarenessto farmers by MARD-generatedpublic
information are centered intwo institutions: the National Agricultural ExtensionCenter (NAEC) andthe
Information Center for Agricultural and Rural Development(ICARD). Establishedby Governmental
Decree as recently as July 2003, NAEC was createdto serve as a public service delivery agency under
MARD. As such, NAEC is designatedthe service provider for ComponentC andresponsiblefor its
management and implementation. The Ministerof MARD issued, on September 2003, a decree to split
the previousDepartmentofAgricultural andForestryExtensioninto the National Agricultural Extension
Center andthe Departmentof Agriculture.

2.      NAEC is specifically responsiblefor technologytransfer and information distribution to farmers.
To carry out these tasks it collects information on the needs and wishes of farmers nationwide. NAEC
operates at the provincial level throughthe Provincial ExtensionCenters, each with about 15 staff, at the
District level as District ExtensionCenters, each with 5 to 6 staff, andat the Communelevel as
Extension Staff, usually comprising one livestock andone crop extension officer.

3.      Public sector Extensionservices inViet Namoperate at four levels:

    0   the centralextension institutions basedinHanoi;

    0   the provincial extensionnetwork;

    0   the districtnetwork; and

    0   the grassroots or commune-levelnetwork.

4.      Inaddition to NAEC there are private serviceproviders, includingfarmers associations, NGOs
and private volunteers, as well as the commercialpoultry farm veterinarians. NAEC now has the overall
responsibility for the planning, budgetingandmonitoring of agricultural extension services for the entire
country. The Governmentplans to recruit about 5,000 extensionpersonnelby 2005, including
substantial increases inwomen and indigenous people.

5.      The DAHat the national andthe SDAH at provincial level, incollaboration with the NAEC
extensionnetwork, are incharge oftransferring technical and administrative information relatedto
animal healthto livestock producersand for collecting andanalyzing disease surveillancedata.
Technical information is also provided through the DAHwebsite, andthe GreenLineat National Post
Office branches. However, most ofthe animal health service linkagesremaindisconnectedandthe flow
of information is mostly top down, seriously hamperingrapid information transfer from the field to the
executingagencies.


                                                   -29-

6.       The important role ofthe private sector inextension mustbe emphasized, especially inon-the-
job training. For example, the CP Livestock Co. in Ho Chi MinhCity employs 50 farm veterinarians
who provide technical services alongside product promotion. These veterinarians are well trained and, in
quantity and quality, outperform the provincial veterinary services inthat area. The impact ofNGO
activities such as VSF, GRET and others, is equally important, albeit of smaller scale. The role ofNAEC
has been limited duringthe recent AI epidemic, so as the collaboration with DAHto share technical and
strategic information to prepare awareness and public information campaign.


       B. RATIONALE FOR SUPPORTINGPUBLICAWARENESSAND INFORMATION

7.       Efforts, albeit considered rather inadequate by NAEC, were made by the extension services to
address the AI crisis by employing information and awarenesstools and materials. An analysis o f the
awareness, communicationand information process duringthe three months duringand following the
outbreak has shownthe following deficiencies:

         poor communication betweenDAHand the provincial sub-departments, within and betweenthe
         provincial veterinary services, between field services and the laboratories, and between DAHand
         the humanhealthsector;

         a low level o f collaboration and information sharing among DAH,NAEC and extension services,
         both at the central and field level;

         insufficient generation and timely delivew o f rapid and reliable information to the country, using
         relevant and simple technical messages;
         a lack o f dvnamic communication links betweennational and field levels;
         a lack o f a clear national strateq of awareness and information to the farmers giventhe high
         level of risk and the economic impact, inparticular for small holders and poor people;
         an insufficientlv clear institutional communication and public information strategy by MARD
         and DAHduringthe critical phase o f the AI crisis; and
         inadequate facilities and modern communication technologies at the provincial and district levels
         to serve as efficient transmission conduits to the grassroots level.

         The returnof further AI outbreaks is a distinct possibility', and the knowledge and awarenessof
the diseaseby farmers andpoultry owners mustbe strengthened; so too musttheir knowledge about
immediate protection measuresto safeguard human health and to stop the propagation o f the disease. A
clear awarenessstrategy and a comprehensive delivery o f extension messages would have increased the
institutional visibility of the livestock sector and strengthenedthe credibility of the national DAHAI
containment policy duringthe post-emergency period.

9.       Such a strategy would be an important investment, basedon the lessons learned by NAEC, DAH
and MARDand by the poultry sector duringthe AI epidemic. The awareness and communication policy
o fNAEC, and the capacity by DAHto contain infectious diseaseoutbreaks, must therefore be brought in
pace with the level of the livestock and poultry development in Vietnam. Awareness and communication
strategies, drivenby DAHand implemented(at different levels) by NAEC and the MARD information
sector will serve, over the short and medium-terms, to help strengthen bothDAHand NAEC and will
contribute to more coordinated efforts inepidemio-surveillanceo ftargeted diseases inVietnam.

' An AI outbreak ina provinceo fthe MekongDeltawas confirmed inearly May, andwas quickly controlled.


                                                     -30-

10.     The quality and efficiency o fthe two-way flow of information andthe active participation o fall
the poultry sector stakeholders are two key-points for the effective monitoringo fthe disease situation
and preventiono f a possible returno fthe epidemic inVietnam.

11.     Awareness and Public InformationCampaign have two specific objectives:

    0   To increasethe productionand the dissemination of technicaland informativemessages
        targeting all the stakeholders and actors of the poultry subsector, with the aim to: (a) increasethe
        basic knowledge o f farmers, poultry holders and other stakeholders inbasic animal health
        information: clinical signs, disease recognition, prevention, control of animal movements and
        markets; (b) inform poultry holders at all levels of the procedures to follow inan emergency
        alert, covering comprehensive and adaptedguidelines; (c) inform and train farmers and poultry
        smallholders in basic biosecurity measures (culling and disposal process, use o f drugs, etc.); (d)
        inform concerned stakeholders about regulations, compensation mechanisms and restocking
        process; and (e) inform the rural and urban population (including consumers) about any risks to
        humanhealth.

    0   To strengthenthe activitiesand capacityin communicationsof DAH at the national and
        provincial levels through: (a) the establishment of an Information and Communications Task
        Group under MARD, composed ofNAEC and DAHstaff, in charge of the design and
        management o f information and communicationstrategies inthe livestock sector inaccordance
        with prevailing OIE regulations; (b) training ofNAEC and DAHstaff ininformation and
        communication management at national level; (c) scaled-uDmoduction and distribution of
        relevant informationto the population, and to DAHand the livestock sector by NAEC, with the
        technical assistance o f ICARD; and (d) training NAEC staff and AHW inthe awareness and
        communication process, methodology, and production o f informationmaterials at the provincial
        level and provision o f communications assistanceto the disease surveillance network.


                         C. COMPONENT DESCRIPTIONAND STRATEGY

12.     The Component has three main aims: (a) to increasethe level o f awareness oftargeted groups, to
improve the two-way flow o f information in case of recurring outbreaks, and to provide these target
groups with the necessarytechnical information; (b) to provide poultry holders and animal field workers
with the technical information to successfully undertake the restocking process whilst insuringadequate
biosecurity; and (c) to target the poultry subsector with clear and comprehensive information about
governmental compensation and restocking mechanisms.

13.     The Component supports the strengthening of the awareness campaign currently beingcarried
out by the Government and by DAH, which would be implementedby NAEC, incollaboration with the
private sector agri-business poultry enterprises. The Component comprises three subcomponents.

Subcomponent C.1- CapacityBuildingin Communicationand Public Information

14.     The proposed project would support the following activities:

    0   Training and needs assessmento f veterinary and livestock extension staff at the central,
        provincial, district, commune andvillage level;

    0   TOT training on animal husbandry extension;

    0   Preparation of a training plan for extension and veterinary staff on poultry production, common


                                                    - 31 -

      poultry diseases (includingAI) and communicationskills at all levels;

   0  Development of a training curriculum; and

   0  TOT training in animal husbandry extension, poultry diseases and communicationskills.

SubcomponentC.2 -CommunityPublicAwareness and InformationCampaigns

15.   The proposed project would support the following activities:

   0  Conduct a training course incommunications methodology for extension and veterinary staff at
      the provincial level;

   0  Carry out a needs assessment on communications requirements for poultry producers;

   0  Procurement of, and training inthe use of communications and information equipment; and

   0  Printing and dissemination of communication and information materials, posters, fact sheets and
      brochures.

SubcomponentC.3 -Monitoringand Evaluation

16.   The proposed project would support the following activities:

   0  Training inparticipatory monitoringand evaluation at all levels;

   0  Midtermevaluationworkshop ofthe above;

   0  Developing an Action Plan for M&E; and

   0  Replication o f successful models.

ExpectedResults and Outputs

17.   For the short term (emergency situation):

   0  farmers and poultry holders have beentrained and sufficiently informed to face a possible return
      o f AI;

   0  the poultry sector receives comprehensive guidelines for efficient reportingincase of emergency,
      and for routine surveillance;

   0  preventiontechniques and biosecurity measuresare well understood by the populationand by the
      professional poultry sector;

   0  consumers have been informed and are aware of the risks to humanhealth; and

   0  packages of technical information (communication materials, printedand multimedia supports,
      etc.) are available, and documents such as posters and leaflets are widely distributedacross the
      country, with priority to the ten (10) provinces under the project.

18.   For the medium-term(preventive situation):

   0  animal health services at national level have been strengthened ininformation and
      communication management, human resources have been trained and technical capacities
      increased. A Task Group has been set up and is operational;

   0  a Communication Strategy has been designed, routine technical messages have beenprepared
      and target-groups identified;


                                                  - 32 -

        adequate information channels and communications tools have been identified (MARD websites,
        national radio-TV broadcasting networks, printedmaterials, etc.);

        linkages and collaboration betweenDAHand NAEC have improved and are operational;
        collaboration in producing and exchanging information is more effective;

        communication activities are considered important inday-to-day effectiveness, and inthe
        development of the epidemio-surveillance network;

        NAEC trainers have beentrained inawarenessand communicationat the provincial level and the
        technical capacities of DAH infield communications (within Provincial Extension Centers) have
        been increasedas well as their equipment and facilities;
        A two-way information flow is operational between AH Services at national leveland veterinary
        staff inthe Provincial Extension Services;

        AHW have received awareness material and relevant simple methodological guidelines; and
        Packages of technical information about the main animal diseases inVietnam (AI and/or OIE
        List A) have been collected and e-formatted on CD-ROM.

Methodologyand Key Activities

19.     The implementationofthe Component would be achieved by: (a) strengtheningnational
capacities in informatiodcommunication within the animal health sector, inclose collaboration with the
NAEC and the extension services at the provincial level; (b) promoting exchange and collaboration
between DAHand NAEC; and (c) setting up a task-group to formulate an informatiodcommunications
strategy with informative messages.

20.     Two workshops would be held at the national level; the first workshop at the onset of project
implementation, and the second inProject Year 2, which would teach NAEC and the Provincial
Extension Centers staff how to carry out public information and awarenessassessment inorder to
determinethe efficiency o fthe Campaignand Strategy. ICARDwould be involved to produce animal
health and livestock sector economics data and information packages for partners and trade sector.

21,     Operationalawareness and public information capacity and methodologies at the provincial level
would be strengthenedthrough the NAEC Extension Centers. Training sessions and workshops (inthe
ProvincialExtension Centers) would be organized for agricultural and veterinary staff insix selected
provinces, on how to prepare, locally, awareness and communication materials; and to strengthen the
collaboration between agricultural awareness services and veterinary services. This methodology would
encompass two processes:
        Information Production. A process would be established to design, produce and distribute
        awarenessand public information (multimedia) materials. This would increase the level of
        public awarenessand improve the visibility and the efficiency o f the NAP.

        Information Dissemination. A rapid dissemination process for information sharing through
        radio/TV broadcasting networks (covering 95% o f the country), and through e-media, targeting
        traders, food producers, the media sector and specialized institutions. This process would aim to
        increase data availability on the economic importance of poultry and livestock production inthe
        country and should also make more visible the governmental action plan for AI and should
        clarify the compensation and restocking mechanisms.




                                                  - 33 -

22.     The Component would finance multi-media equipment, transportation and printingequipment,
computers and training. The Component would operate at the central (byNAEC) at inselected
provincial levels through local extension centers. Inputswould include three local consultants to be
stationed at NAEC: (a) an EducatiodTraining specialist (approximately 4 months); (b) an information
extension specialist, with animal health people (approximately 2 months); and (c) ajournalist/editor
(approximately 1month).


                                         D. RISKASSESSMENT

23.     Success o f the ST Immediate Awareness and Public Information Campaign for Avian Influenza
will dependon the following:

  0     Government commitment to the importance of the information, education and communication
        process in an emergency situation as an integrated routine activity in the daily activities of DAH;

  0     An efficient national Task Group to formulate an awareness and public information strategy and
        produce technical guidelines and information for the poultry subsector;

  0     Technical commitment by DAHto produce reliable information and to collaborate withNAEC,
        provincial Extension Centers, ICARD, NGOs, and other entities;

  0     Availability o f funds, at the national and provincial level, to produce and disseminate
        communication and awareness materials; and

  0     Availability o f qualified human resourcesand facilities inNAEC and the provincial extension
        centers to produce awareness and educational materials.

24.     Success inthe medium and long-term will depend on the capacity of the DAHto integrate
Informationand CommunicationManagement as a routine activity into the mandate of Veterinary
Services, and to consider the management o f information and communication as an investment rather
than an expense.

25.     Crucial points for the implementationo fthe Awareness and Public Information Component
include:

  0     The technical capacity and the willingness o fNAEC at the national levelto take pro-active
        leadership o f this Component. The emergency nature o f this project requires quick operational
        commitment to implementawareness activities to prevent a possible returnof AI and to ensure a
        successful, disease-free restocking process;

  0     NAEC will have to undertake the necessary technical dialogue with DAHand veterinary services
        at the provincial level. The key to success i s the creation o f ajoint Task Group (NAECDAH
        and other relevant governmental agencies); and

  0     Linkages needto be activatedwith ICARD for specific informatioddata; specific targeted groups
        and/or channels an efficient transmission belt. The quality o f national consultants and their
        commitment to work with NAEC and DAHare keysto success.




                                                    - 3 4 -

                                                                                   APPENDIX 6

                          THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                   AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCYPROJECT


                                        PROJECTCOSTS


                                        Indicative                       IDA         IDA
             Component                    costs       O hof Total     Financing-  Financing
                                         (US$M)                        (US$M)        ( O h )
A. StrengtheningDisease Surveillance,     2.760           44.5            2.0        74.3
Diagnostic Capacity andHPAI
Research
B.Poultry SectorRehabilitation            2.130           34.4            1.8        85.0
C. Public Awareness andInformation        0.950           15.3            0.9        93.9
D.Project Management                      0.360            5.8            0.3        80.8

Total Project Cost                    I   6.200     I    100.0       1    5.0   I    81.4



            Project Costs By Component                  -------------US $
                                                         Local       I Foreign
                                                                         Million--_-__-_----__-
                                                                                I   TOTAL

A. StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance, Diagnostic          0.800           1.so0       2.600
Capacity andHPAIResearch
B.Poultry Sector Rehabilitation                          0.500           1.500       2.000
C. Public Awareness andInformation                       0.400          0.500        0.900
D.Project Management                                     0.200          0.200        0.400
Base Cost                                                1.900          4.000        5.900
A. Physical Contingencies                                0.030           0.100       0.130
B.Price contingencies                                    0.070           0.100       0.170

Total Project Cost                                       2.000           4.200       6.200



             Project Costs By Category                  -------------US$
                                                         Local       I  Foreign
                                                                         Million_-_--_-_---___-
                                                                                 I  TOTAL

Civil Works                                              0.300           0.100       0.400
Goods                                                    0.250            3.150      3.400
Consultants services                                     0.250            0.050      0.300
Training                                                 0.250            0.250      0.500
Incremental OperatingCost                                0.300            0.100      0.400
                                                    I                1           I             I
_____~   ~


Total Project Cost                                        1.350          3.650       5.000




                                              - 35 -

                           I      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                                 Year 1  Year 2     Year 3
Total FinancingRequired
   InvestmentCosts                2.30    2.70       0.50
   Recurrent Costs                0.20    0.40       0.10
Total ProjectCost                 2.50    3.10       0.60



Financing                        Year 1  Year 2     Year 3
   IDA                            1.so    2.70       0.50
   Government                     0.15     0.40      0.10
   FA0                            0.55       --        --
Total ProjectFinancing            2.50    3.10       0.60




                           - 3 6 -

                                                                                             APPENDIX 7

                              THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCY PROJECT


                                  IMPLEMENTATION         ARRANGEMENTS


                             A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE

1.      Proiect Coordination and Manaoement. The National SteeringCommittee for controlling and
monitoring Avian Influenza, chairedby MARD's Vice Minister, will provide generalpolicies and
guidelines to the PCUfor project implementation, review annual work plans, and ensure coordination
and linkageswith relevant agencies. At central level, the National Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of
the on-goingIDA-fundedAgricultural DiversiJicationProject will be responsiblefor day-to-dayproject
implementation, supervision, and project monitoring. The ADP will receivetechnical assistance from
international and national consultants, technicalguidancefrom the Departmentof Animal Health (DAH),
Departmentof Agriculture (DA), National Agricultural ExtensionCenter (NAEC), and other concerned
departments and institutions of MARD. The use ofthe existing PCU will help avoid the needto develop
a separate structure for this small project for only two years and offer opportunitiesto scale up learning
and experiencesto the existing national programs.

2.      Central Level. The PCU will be strengthenedby the recruitmentof additional staff who will be
responsiblefor overall administration, reportpreparation,and procurementand financial management of
the project. To facilitate project implementationat least one senior officer from eachDAH, DA, and
NAEC will be seconded to the PCU to be appointedas Project Coordinators incharge of the respective
project componentsundertheir oversight. Inaddition, the PCU, under the direction of the PSC, will be
responsiblefor coordinating with DAH, DAYNCAE andwith other institutions, to guide andmonitor
implementationat provincial and local levels. More specifically, DAHwill assist the PCU inpreparing
its annualand quarterly work plans, work budgets, andtechnical guidelines for ComponentA. Similarly,
DA andNAEC will respectivelyassist the PCU inimplementation of ComponentB and Component C.
The PCU is responsiblefor consolidating the overall plans for submissionto MARDandIDA, and
providing guidelines andmonitoring project implementationat all levels.

3.      Provincial Level. Project implementationat the provincial level would be the direct
responsibility of each ofthe ten project provinces and collaborating line institutions, such as National
InstituteofVeterinary Research(NIVR) andNational InstituteofAnimal Health (NIAH). A simple
Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) will be formed ineach project province to implement
project activities inthe province under supervisionand guidance of the central PCU. The PPIUwill be
headedby a DARD Deputy Director and will draw, on part time-basis, qualified staff from relevant sub-
departments or centers of DARD, such as Animal Health, Agriculture, Extension, and Vietnam Women's
Union(VWU).

4.      Technical activities will be implementedthrough the veterinary and extension service networks
at the provincial, district and commune levels. Contractedanimal health and extension workers would be
recruitedat the commune level to provide support services to beneficiary households. The VWU and
other NGOs will be involved inconducting surveillancepublic awareness campaigns, training, extension,
and activities at community level.



                                                     - 3 7 -

        B. COMPONENT DESCRIPTIONAND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

5.       The Project consistsof four components:

Component A     -  DISEASE SURVEILLANCE, DIAGNOSTIC CAPACITY
                   AND HPAIRESEARCH

6.      This component serves to expandand upgradeexisting diagnostic capacity and to provide rapid
response field surveillanceand reporting system. Itwould finance equipment, training, consultant
services and operatingcosts. The componentcomprises five subcomponents presentedbelow:

SubcomponentA1-Strengtheningof Animal Disease Surveillance

7.     . This sub-componentwill enhance disease surveillance from the commune to the central levels
through provision oftechnical assistance, training andgoods including one vehicle for DAHand 105
motorcycles for District Veterinary Centers to: (a) strengthenpublic veterinary networksand carry out
routine serological surveys; (b) establishcommunity-basedsurveillance networks inapproximatelythirty
(30) districts inthe project provinces; and (c) improve information flows and improve epidemiological
information system.

8.      ImplementationArrangements. The PCUwill be responsiblefor the procurementof goods and
services inaccordance with World Bank guidelines, with technical assistance for specificationsprovided
by DAHand other technical experts. DAHwill assist the PCU inthe preparationofwork plans and
budgets, training plans, implementation, and setting-up, operating, and managingthe networksfrom
central down to commune levels.


SubcomponentA2 UpgradingDiagnostic Capacity
                     -

9.      This subcomponentwill strengthendisease diagnostic capacity through provision oftechnical
assistance, equipment and training to the National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (NVDC) inHanoi and
four Regional Centers (RVCs) inVinh, DaNang, Can Tho andHo Chi MinhCity.

10.     ImplementationArrangements. Ingeneral, the PCU will be responsiblefor the procurementof
goods and servicesfor the entire project inaccordance with World Bank procurementguidelines. The
PCU, inconsultationwith the DAH, NVDC, RVCs, and other technical experts, will carry out the
procurementof goods (laboratory equipmentand one vehicle for NVDC), including the preparationof
bid documents, bid evaluation, contract awarding, and management of goods delivery. Alternatively,
laboratory equipmentand reagents may be procuredthrough WHO. DAHwill assist the PCU in
preparingand implementinga detailedtraining plan inbiosafety for laboratoryworkers and staff ina
manner acceptableto IDA.

SubcomponentA3 -Veterinary Reference Laboratory for HPAIResearch

11,     This sub-componentwill strengthenresearchon HPAIand other pathogenicvirusesthrough
provision oftechnical assistance, equipment and training for the establishment of a Virus Reference
Laboratory (VRL) under the National Institute for Veterinary Research (NNR).

12.     ImplementationArrangements. The PCU, inconsultation and cooperation with NIVR, will carry
out the procurementof goods (i.e., laboratory and biosecurity equipment, reagents and other items) for
the VRL. TheNNRwill assist the PCU inpreparingtraining andimplementationplans. International



                                                   - 38 -

safety standards will be incorporated inthe construction of the VRL (to be financed by non-project
hnds), inaccordance with FA0or OIE standards for suchfacilities. Prior to onset of operations, NIVR
will prepare a laboratory risk analysis report and an accident mitigationplan acceptableto IDA, then
submit the design and operation plans ofthe laboratory to atechnical audit inrespect oftheir biosafety
standardsby experts with qualifications and experience acceptableto IDA prior puttingininto operation.

SubcomponentA4 Strategic Studies
                      -

13.      This subcomponent will carry out two strategic studies, namely the preparationof aNational
Contingency Plan for HPAIand a Self-evaluation of Veterinary Services. The subcomponent will also
support participationof DAHofficials and project staff in regional and international information
exchanges and dissemination on avian influenza.

14.      ImplementationArrangements. DAHwill assistthe PCU in preparingthe TORSfor selection of
the consultants for strategic studies. The PCUwill be responsible for selecting consultants following
World Bank guidelinesfor selection of consultants. A national Contingency Plan for HPAIwill be
prepared and submittedto IDA for review and comments by the end of 2004 prior to puttingit into
implementation. The Coordinator secondedfrom DAHincharge of Component A will be responsible for
M&Eofthe component.

SubcomponentA5 -EmergencyOutbreakContainmentPlan

15.      The subcomponent provides support to develop an emergency outbreak containment plan,
includingprovision of disinfectants, equipment and protective clothingto enable rapid activation of
human and physical resources incase of outbreaks.

16.      ImplementationArrangements. DAHand DA will assist the PCU inpreparing a rapid
mobilizationplan to respond intimely fashion to recurring HPAI outbreaks. The Plan would have
sufficient resourcesto cover three provincial emergency outbreaks duringthe life of the project. DAH
and DA will assist the PCU in implementingand managing this subcomponent and help coordinate
activities under this subcomponent with other activities o fthe government programs.

ComDonent B POULTRY SUBSECTORREHABILITATION
                 -

17.      This component aims to: (a) strengthenthe national poultry breedingresources with additional
certified disease-freestock; (b) upgrade bio-security against disease invasiono f 12 GP poultry breeding
farms; and (c) carry out strategic studies on compensation policy for affected producers and on the
restructuring of the poultry sector and a survey o f poultry losses resultingfrom the 2003-2004 avian
influenza epidemic. The component would finance breeding stock, equipment, chemicals and
disinfectants, training, and consultant's services. The component comprises three subcomponents
presentedbelow.

SubcomponentB1- Breeding Stock Supply

18.      An estimate total of 15,000 GP DOC and ducklings (11,000 certified disease-free chicks and
4,000 certified disease-free ducklings) would be imported inPY1 and PY2 to augment GP stock inthe 12
poultry breeding farms under MARD. Replacement day-old chicks would be suppliedfrom this stock via
multiplierparent farms to village poultry holders.




                                                     - 39 -

19.      Implementation Arrangements. Similar to the implementationof Subcomponent B1, the DA will
assist the PCU in implementing and managingthis subcomponent. The PCU, with assistance from DA,
NIAHand GeneralLivestock Company, will be responsiblefor the procurementof poultry. It is
important to note that the procurementofbreedingstock will be conditional on the completion of
satisfactory biosecurity measures(see next subcomponent) on those GP farms on which the newly
arrived GP stock would be housed.

SubcomponentB2-Upgradingthe Bio-securityinGP Facilities                '




20.      This subcomponentwill support biosecurity upgradingof the 12GP poultry farms' to strengthen
their defense against future infectious disease outbreaksthroughthe provisionoftechnicalassistance,
equipment, andone vehicle for DA. Biosecurity upgradingwould encompassthe designand installation
of quarantinefacilities, perimeter security fencing, improvedwater and waste disposalsystems,
personneldisinfection entry unitsand essential facilities for ensuring an effective disease containment
barrier.

21.      Implementation Arrangements. DA will assist the PCU inthe procurementof goods, civil works
and selectionof consultantsunder this subcomponent. National engineeringconsultants will be hiredto
prepareconstruction designs addressingbiosecurity needs for each of the GP breedingfarms under the
project. After that, an international biosecurity specialist will review and assess the adequacy of
biosecurity measures inthe constructiondesignand hidher recommendationswill be incorporatedinto
the final constructiondesignwhich shall form the basis for upgradingandrehabilitation ofthe GP farms.
As a conditionality to protecting newly imported GP breedingstock from infectious disease, all the GP
breedingfarms must have completedtheir upgradingin a satisfactorymannerprior to the arrival of
imported birds.

SubcomponentB3 Strategic Studies
                     -

22.      This subcomponent involves strategic studies on compensationpolicy for affectedproducers and
on the restructuring of the poultry sector and a survey of poultry losses during the 2003-2004avian
influenza epidemic.

23.      ImplementationArrangements. DA will assist the PCU inpreparingthe TORSfor selectionof
the consultantsfor strategic studies andsurveys. The PCUwill beresponsiblefor selectingconsultants
following the World Bank Guidelines.The study on compensationpolicy for affectedproducersshall be
completedby the end of 2004 and submittedto IDA for review and comments. Inaddition, the project
coordinator seconded from D A will be responsiblefor the M&E of ComponentB.

ComponentC -PUBLIC AWARENESSAND INFORMATION

24.      This component will be implementedinall ten project provinces, which provides supportto: (a)
carry out a programto build capacity on communications and public information; (b) developpilot
models for community-basedrapid communicationand information systems; and (c) improve the
monitoring and evaluationof public awareness and information activities.

25.      The component would finance training, publication and mass mediamaterials and equipment,
technical assistance, and one vehicle for NAEC. The NAEC incollaboration with the private sector agri-
business poultry enterprises will assist the PCU in implementing activities under this component. The

' 5 farms managedbyNIAH, 1 farm managedbythe AgriculturalResearch Institute o f SouthVietnam; and
  6 farms managedbythe General Livestock Company.


                                                    - 40 -

component comprisesthree subcomponents representedbelow.
SubcomponentC1- BuildingCapacityon Communicationsand PublicInformation

26.     This sub-componentwill carry out aprogramto buildcapacity on communicationsand public
information including a needs assessmentof extensionandveterinary staff at all levels, training of
trainers on communication, commonpoultry diseases and animalhusbandry, and disseminationof
information to poultry farmers.

27.     ImplementationArrangements. NAEC will assist the PCU inorganizingand implementingthis
sub-component including preparationof work plans and budgets, procurementofequipment(including
one vehicle for NAEC), preparationoftraining plans and implementationof the approvedplans.At the
provincial level, basedon the guidanceofNAEC and instructionsofthe PCU, the PPIU will be
responsible for implementingactivities at local levels through the existing extensionnetwork at district
and commune levels incollaboration with NGOs and private sector agri-businesspoultry enterprises.

SubcomponentC2 -Developingpilot modelsfor community-basedrapid communication and
                       informationsystems

28.     This subcomponentwill develop pilot models for community-basedrapid communicationand
information systems, including providing training incommunicationsmethodologyfor extension and
veterinary staff and assessingneeds incommunicationsrequirementsfor poultry producersthroughthe
provision of technical assistance, equipment, training, andthe preparation and disseminationof
communicationand information materials (i.e., posters, fact sheets andbrochures).

29.     ImplementationArrangements. NAEC will assist the PCU in organizing and implementingthis
sub-component.At the provincial level, basedonthe guidance ofNAEC and instructionsofthe PCU, the
PPIUwill be responsiblefor implementing activities at local levelsthrough its networks at district and
commune levels incollaboration with NGOs and private sector agri-businesspoultry enterprises.

SubcomponentC3 -Carrying out monitoringand evaluationof publicawareness and information

30.     This subcomponent will improve the monitoring and evaluationof public awareness and
information activities under the project through the provision of technical assistance andtraining.

3 1.    ImplementationArrangements. NAEC will assist the PCU inorganizing and implementing the
M&Esystem. At the provincial level, basedonthe guidance ofNAEC andinstructionsofthe PCU, the
PPIUwill be responsiblefor implementing activities at local levelsthrough its networks at district and
commune levels incollaboration with farmers, NGOs, and private sector agri-businesspoultry
enterprises. The project will supporttraining inparticipatory monitoring and evaluationat all levels, mid-
term evaluationworkshop, developmento f an action plan for M&E, and replication of successful models.

ComponentD-PROJECT MANAGEMENT

32.      This componentwould supportthe Project Coordination Unit (PCU) ofthe Agricultural
Diversification Project, now under implementation, in its day-to-dayproject management activities. The
component would finance incrementalPCU operatingcosts such as office rental, travel, office
equipment, humanresourcesupport andtraining.

33.     ImplementationArrangements. The PCU for this project will be part ofthe existing PCU.
Additional staff would be recruitedto handle overall administration, consolidation of reports,
procurement, and financial management ofthe project. The PCUwill report directly to the APMB in


                                                   - 41 -

MARDandthe NPSC.Novehicles will bepurchasedfor the PCU. Instead, project funds will beused
for rentingvehicles for the PCU's transportation and field work.
34.     The functions of PCUare as follows:

    0   Under the guidanceofNPSC, be responsiblefor overall project implementation, management
        andsupervision, inaccordance with agreementsreachedbetweenthe GOV andIDA;

    0   Develop coordination and managementmechanisms for the project, coordinate with DAH, DA,
        NAEC andother concernedagencies on nationalpolicies andregulationsrelatedto
        implementationofthe project components;

    e   Provide overall guidancefor project implementationto ensure realistic targets are set and met;
        provide guidanceand closely monitor PPIUs inimplementingenvironmentalsafeguardpolicies;

    0   Prepare and issue internal guidelines for provincial, district, and commune levels and review
        their respectiveoperations;

    0   Consolidatework plans andbudgets(including procurementplans) preparedby DAH, DA, and
        NAEC for each component for submissionto PSC, MARD, and IDA;

    0   Develop andmaintain a satisfactory accountingsystems for the project inaccordance with the
        proceduresrequiredby boththe GoV andIDA, including management ofthe Special Account
        (SA) and coordination with co-financing institutions (e.g. FAO);

    0   Handle all procurementactivities for goods, civil works, and selectionof consultants; and

    0   Set up project management, reporting and M&E systems at all levels and manage flow of
        information for decisionmaking inaccordance with project requirements.

35.     At the provincial level, a simpleProvincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) will be formed
ineachprovinceto implementactivities inthe provinceunder supervisionandguidanceofthe PCU. The
PPIUwill be headedby aDARDDeputy Director and will draw qualified staff from relevant sub-
departmentsand centers ofDARD, such as Animal Health, Agriculture, Extension, and VWU.

        The functions of PPIUare as follows:
        Under the guidance ofthe PCU, be responsiblefor project implementation, management and
        supervisionwithin the province;

        Coordinatewith provincial, District and Communeimplementationunitsto ensure effective
        project implementation inthe province especially with provincial and district departmentsin
        charge of animal health, extension, and environment;

        Provide training to staff at district and commune levels;

        Ensure that realistic progresstargets are met and be responsiblefor the implementation of
        safeguardpolicies (i.e., environmentalsafeguards) inthe province;
        Assist DAH, DA, andNAEC inpreparingwork plans andbudgets(including procurementplans)
        for each component for submissionto PCUand IDA;
        Maintain a satisfactory accountingsystemfor the project at the provincial level, inaccordance to
        procedures requiredby the GoV and IDA; and

        Disseminate project information to households, set up a project managementand reporting
        systems at provincial, district, and commune levels, manage flow of information for decision
        making inaccordance with project requirements.



                                                    - 42 -

                             PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART




                               National Steering Committee
                               for Avian Influenza Control




            /
           \
  Department of            Departmentof                              National Agency for
  Animal Health             Agriculture                              Extension Center




                            National Project CoordinationUnit
                                      ComponentD
         I                                                                    I


 Compon5Z.C                           ComponentB                      Compone2t    c
   Strengthening           4        Breeding Stock Supply     I
   Surveillance                                                          Communicationsand




Diagnostic Capacity                Poultry Breeding Farms
                                                                       Developing Pilot models
                                                                         for Community-based
StrengtheningHPAI                Conducting Strategic Studies           RapidCommunication
     Research              4
                                                                          Carrying out M&E of
Conducting Strategic                                                       public awareness &
      Studies                                                              extensionactivities




    Developing
EmergencyOutbreak                                                               Vietnam's
 ContainmentPlan                                                              Women Union

                                                                                   /




                                  Project Beneficiaries
                                 NIAH, NIVR,NVDC,
                       Project Provinces, Districts, and Communes




                                                 - 43 -

                                                                                          APPENDIX 8

                             THE SOCIALIST REPUBLICOF VIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCY PROJECT


                                  PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS


                    A. PROCUREMENT METHODSAND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.       Procurementfor the proposedproject would be carriedout in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: ProcurementUnder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits", April 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection
andEmployment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", April 2004 and the provisions stipulatedin
the Legal Agreement. The generaldescriptionofvarious itemsunder different expenditure category are
describedbelow and summarizedinTable A. For each contract to be financedby the Credit, the
different procurementmethodsor consultantselectionmethods, estimatedcosts, prior review
requirements, andtime frame are given inthe GeneralProcurementPlaninthe Attachment andadetailed
ProcurementPlanto be provided by MARD prior to effectiveness. The ProcurementPlan will be
updatedat least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds.

Civil Works

2.       Civil Works estimatedat an aggregate amount of US$450,000, for contractsestimatedto range
from US25,OOO to US$lOO,OOO per contract, include construction for upgradingbio-security of 12
poultry farms inthe project provinces. All the works will be procuredthrough shoppingprocurement
method.

Goods

3.       Goods estimatedat an aggregate amount of US$3,600,000 to be procuredunder the proposed
project include equipment and reagents for national and regional veterinary centers, chickvaccination,
breedingstock supplies and vehicles.

4.       Shoppingprocurement(national and international) would cover most ofthe equipment and
vaccination requiredfor the project. The amount for each contract, estimatedto rangefrom US$50,000
to US$250,000 would be relatively higher than the commonthresholdfor shopping($50,000) normally
usedfor conventionalprojects. Under the project goods estimatedto cost less than US$250,000 per
contract may be procuredthrough shopping. This higher threshold isjustified due to the emergency
nature of the project. ICB or NCB would be too time consumingand thus the use of these methodsmight
adversely affect the timely procurementof equipment andvaccine for urgentrecoveryand preventive
operations.

5.       Procurement from specializedUNAgencies. Procurementfrom UNspecializedagencies
(notably WHO and IAPSO) may be used. Suchprocurement would cover laboratory equipment,
reagents, disinfectants, andvehicles.

6.       Direct contractingof some essentialbreedingstock supplies is the appropriate method since
certified disease-free breedingstock such Sasso Grant, Kabir GP, Cherry Valley Duck, etc. are
obtainable only from a particular source. There will be about 5 contracts estimatedto rangefrom
US$lOO,OOO to US$300,000 per contract.


                                                   - 44 -

ConsultingServices

7.       Consulting Services estimatedat anaggregate amount of US$330,000 include consulting services
to set-up community-basedsurveillance networks, to operate these networks, to prepareengineering
biosecurity designs for the GP breedingfarms and for the training ofproject staff, commune staff and
farmers on animal disease surveillance and epidemiology, and animalhusbandryandbiosecurity. Most
consulting serviceswould be provided by individual consultants. Audit services may be procured
through the least-cost selectionmethod. Any other consulting contractwith firms estimated to cost less
than US$lOO,OOO per contract may be procuredthrough the methodof selectionbasedon consultant's
qualifications.

Training

8.       An extensive training programincluding workshops and training courses estimatedto cost about
US$570,000 will be carried in accordance with agreed proceduresbasedon training programs with
detaileditemizedbudgetsapprovedby the Bank. The training programs shall provide the objectives,
criteria for selectionof participants, venue and/or instituteselected, period of activity and estimatedcost.
Expenditures incurredunder these activities will generally be claimedunder SOEs.

OperatingCosts

9.       OperatingCosts estimatedat an aggregate amount ofUS$700,000 include staff per diem field
allowances, travel expenses, costs for vehicle operationandmaintenance,office rental and office
consumables, communicationexpenses, printing expenses, compensationfor emergency overtime for
Animal Health Workers at the commune level, and salariesof contractualstaff, but exclude regular
salariesof public employees.


                          B. PROCUREMENTCAPACITY ASSESSMENT

10.      An assessmentof the capacity ofthe ProjectManagementUnit (PMU) of the AIERP was
conductedby the Bank procurement specialist inMay 2004.

11.     The Procurementcapacity of the PMU is found to be adequate. The PMUis fully functional and
staffedwith procurementstaff having adequate procurementexperience gainedover the last five years in
the implementationofthe IDA-funded Agricultural Diversification Project(ADP).

12.     The issues andrisksconcerningthe procurementcomponent for implementationof the proposed
project have been identifiedand are mainlyrelatedto: (a) MARD's potentially slow internal approval
process; and (b) potentially heavy workload due to the emergencynature of the proposedproject in.
addition to the remaining workload o fthe Agricultural Diversification Project.

13.     The recommendedcorrective measures are: (a) MARD to provide a simplified review procedure
for internal approval; and (b) PMUto recruit a procurementofficer to work full time for the durationof
the project.

14.     The overall oroiect risk inrespect of procurementis medium.




                                                    - 45 -

                                      C. PROCUREMENT PLAN

15.      A procurementplanwas developedby MARDduringthe appraisalmission is attached. An
updatedprocurementplan is expectedto be available prior to effectiveness andwill be subsequently
updatedat least annually.


                       D. FREQUENCY OF PROCUREMENTSUPERVISION

16.      Inaddition to the prior review supervisionto be carriedout from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the ImplementingAgency has recommendedsemi-annualsupervision mission to visit the
field to carry out post review of procurementactions.


                                    TableA: ProjectCosts by ExpenditureCategory
                                             (inUS$ thousandequivalent)




            I                                          I           (400)                     I
             2. Goods                                             3,600
                                                                 (3,400)
             3. ConsultsServices                                    330
                                                                   (300)
             4. Training                                            570
                                                                   (500)
             5. OperationalCosts                                    700
                                                                   (400)
                Total"                                            5,650
                 IDA finance                                     (5,000)




                                                  -46-

                                                                                                  APPENDIX 8
                                                                                                     Attachment
                                          PROCUREMENTPLAN


I.GENERAL

Agreed Dateof the ProcurementPlan

ProcurementPlan June 2004

Dateof GeneralProcurementNotice July 2004

11. CIVIL WORKS

Prior Review Threshold.ProcurementDecisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as statedinAppendix 1
to the Guidelinesfor Procurement:

                Procurement Method                   Prior Review Threshold                 Comment
 1      Shopping*                                    US$50,000

111.GOODSAND NON-CONSULTINGSERVICES

Prior Review Threshold. ProcurementDecisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as statedinAppendix 1
to the Guidelines for Procurement :

             Procurement Method               Prior ReviewThreshold                     Comment
 1      Shopping*                             US$50,000                       No contractpackage for goods is
                                                                              expectedto exceed US$250,000
 2      Direct contracting                    All
*   The invitation for quotations for eachcontract for goods and works procuredunder shoppingproceduresand
    estimatedto cost more than $100,000 per contract shall be advertisedinat leastone newspaper of nation-wide
    circulation; and prospectivebidders shall be allowed at least 14 days to submit quotations.

IV. SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS

Prior Review Threshold. SelectionDecisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as statedinAppendix 1to
the Guidelines SelectionandEmployment ofConsultants


                  Selection Method                    Prior Review                       Comments
                                                       Threshold
 1.     Individual consultants                       US$50,000
 2.     Selectionbasedon Consultants'                US$50,000
        Qualification
 3.     Least Cost Selection                         US$50,000

Short list comprising entirely ofnational consultants. Short list of consultants for services, estimatedto
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in
accordancewith the provisions o fparagraph2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.


                                                       - 47-

V. PUBLICATION OF THE AWARD OF CONTRACT

At least once every three months, MARDshall make public by postingon PCUNotice Board a list of all
awardedcontracts identifying the bid and lot numbers andthe following information: (a) name of each
bidder who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as readout at bid opening; (c) name andevaluatedprices of
each bidthat was evaluated; (d) name of bidderswhose bids were rejected andthe reasonsfor their
rejection; and (e) name ofthe winning bidder, and the price it offered, as well as the duration and
summary scope ofthe contract awarded.




                                                  -48-

C  0  0  0  0 0  0 0  0 0
                     0
                     0-
                     0m


C   0 0  0 0  0 0  0 0  0
                 0   0
                8    8 80

                 m    w m
:$

E




C
$
C




1

n
s8

                                8 ,
                                8 8  8 8
                                     8 ,
                                 O N
                                 N   O N
                                     N


                      g g s s
N   N  N N   N N      N N 0 0
                          N N




                                 w     W

                                 v)
                                 O     a


                                 0     0




               f8 -"z
0  0
   0  0  0
         0  0  0 0    0 0 0 0    0     0
   8        8
         0-  2
    w    m
         N


      E  ?
0   O 8  8   0 0 0    0 0 0 0    0     0
         0




0
0  0  0  0
         0   0 0 0    0 0 0 0    0
                                 0     0
                                       0
0-       0
5:       ?                       8     0-
                                       m
                                 W     m


                                 0
                                 0     0
                                 8     0
                                       0-
                                  a    m
                                       m

   -0a
   8 8               -0a
                     0 O
                     P 0
   O N
   N                 O N
                     N




  u *                     tn
  5S g gI
     Z B             mpz
                     c
                     msg
  h                  E    $


     W
     0
     v)               8W

     0                0
                      0
                      8
                      m


0
0    0                0
8    0
     0                0
     0                0-
     00               0
m                     P


0    0                0
                      0
                      8
                      N


0    0                8
                      0
                      0-
                      0
                      N


0
0    0
     0                0
8    8                0
                      0-
m
b    co               zm




   U
   8m



   g 2               E8
    tn
    al
    C
    g!

   a .Or  !          ob
                     I
   .o        n        c
                      0

  no
   % E                $CD
   .- .E
   e         3n22     2 8
             hU      z--SEz
                         a,
             5       I   2

m    P       >        N

                                                                                              APPENDIX 9

                              THE SOCIALISTREPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                      AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCYPROJECT


                    FINANCIAL    MANAGEMENT       AND DISBURSEMENT     ARRANGEMENTS

                     A. SUMMARY OFTHE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                ASSESSMENT


1,       An assessmentofthe project's financial managementarrangementswas conducted inMay 2004
and it is concluded that with the completion of the Action Plan as tabled inthis Annex, that the Project
meets the minimumrequirements o fthe Bank's OP/BP10.02. The project will adopt traditional
disbursement methods and will produce quarterly financial monitoringreports.

CountryIssues

2.       IDA conducted a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) ofVietnam in2001,
which provides a diagnosis o f the country's financial management environment. The CFAA helps the
Government and IDA, among other things, to assess and manage the riskthat public funds mightbe used
for unintendedpurposes and identify the key risks, capacity gaps and constraints to progress inthis area.
An Action Planto addressthe key findingso fthe CFAA has beenagreedupon with the Government.

3.       Among the key findings of the CFAA that are relevant to the financial management aspects o f
this Project are the following: (a) managementreports for effective decision-making arenot widely used;
(b) as the requirements ofpublic expenditure accounting are very comprehensive and detailed, and
compliance with the financial managementrequirements is challenging for all units, particularly at the
lower levels; and (c) as accounting staff focus on more easily accomplished requirements like mechanical
verification o f payments and receipts, the regular and efficient monitoring o f state budget information for
effective use o f public funds at times is not carried out ina timely manner.

4.       The CFAA also reports that "the current budget arrangement inVietnam suffers from a lack o f
transparency inthe achievement o f objectives." The conclusion of the assessment is that there is a
certain degree of fiduciary risk inthe use of public resources, although overall the fiduciary risk for this
Project is manageable for on-budget items, consideringthe steps that are envisioned to be taken under the
financial management plan.

ImplementationArrangement

5.       At the central level, the current PCUo fthe on-going Agricultural Diversification Project under
the Agricultural Projects Management Board (APMB) o fMARD will be responsible for day-to-day
implementation, supervision, and project monitoring. The PCU will receive technical assistance from
national consultants, technical guidance from the Departments o f Animal Health(DAH) and Agriculture          '
(DA), the National Agricultural ExtensionCenter (NAEC), and other concerned Departments and
institutions o f MARD for each o f the project components, as follows:




                                                     - 52 -

ComponentA: StrengtheningDiseaseSurveillance,Diagnostic Capacityand HPAI Research,to be
               implementedthrough consultationandcooperationwith, andwith the assistance from
               DAH, NVDC, RVCs, NIVR, andDA.

ComponentB:Poultry Subsector Rehabilitation, to be implementedwith the assistance from DA, NIAH
               and participating Vietnam GeneralLivestock Companies;

ComponentC: Public Awareness and Information, to be implementedby with the assistancefrom NAEC
               incollaboration with DAHandDA; and

ComuonentD: Project Management,to be implementedby the PCUwith senior officers seconded from
               DAH, DA, andNAEC.

6.       At provincial level, a simple Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU) will be formed in
each province to implementactivities inthe province under supervisionand guidance of the PCU. The
PPIUwill be headedby a DARD Deputy Director andwill draw qualified staff from relevant sub-
departmentsand centers of DARD, such as Animal Health, Agriculture, Extension, andVietnam
Women's Union.

Descriptionand Assessmentof FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangementsAdequacy

7.      A SpecialAccount (SA) will be opened at a commercialbank acceptableto IDA to receiveIDA
credit's advance and will be managedby the PCU. The initial SA advance will be made at the request of
the Ministry ofFinance, with subsequent SA replenishmentsagainstWithdrawal Applications,
accompaniedby either statements of expenditure or summary sheets and other appropriate documents.
Direct paymentto contractorswill be made against Withdrawal Applications for individual payments
exceeding20% of the SA threshold. All Withdrawal Applications will be approvedby the Ministry of
Finance before disbursementtakes place.

8.      Most ofthe Project's expenditureswill be incurred at the PCU. Expenditures incurredby the
PPIUcomprise field allowances, vehicle operatingcosts andtraining costs and will be pre-financedby
the Governmentandsubsequentlyreimbursedfrom the SA after beingapprovedby Project's line Deputy
Director. The estimatedamount of governmentpre-financing funds requiredfor PPIUs expenditure are
estimatedat VND 2 billion.

9.      Project activities that have been reviewed and authorizedby the Project's line director will be
usedas the basisfor approval of expenditure. Original bills andvouchers of expenditure incurred at
PPIUs will be retainedat the respectivePPIUand filed inan orderly manner for quick and easy access.
Reconciliationof incomeand expendituresbetweenPPIU and PCUwill be performedon a quarterly
basis, before preparationofthe Financial MonitoringReport (FMR).

10.     A full-time accountantwill be employedby the PCU and a part-time accountant will be attached
to each PPIU. EachPPIUwill producea quarterly report ina standardizedformat andPCUswill use
accountingsoftware capable o f analyzingexpendituresand reimbursementsto the PPIU by each
province. PPUIs are requiredto submit their quarterly report within 15 days after the end ofthe period
under review to enable the reconciliation o f income and expendituresbefore preparationand submission
of the FMR. The accounting systemat boththe PCU andPPIUsmustbe able to analyze income by
source of funding, and expendituresby source of funding, project component, and category of
expenditure.




                                                   - 53 -

   11.     Annual budgets will be preparedjointly by the PCUand PPIUs, basedon approvedannual
   procurementand activities plans. Paymentto contractors/supplierswill be made upon approvalof project
   director/project line Deputy Director or PPIU director, as appropriate.

   12.     Supervisionon financial managementwill be performedat least twice ayear and an annual audit
   will be performed at the PCU andPPIUsby independentauditors recognizedby the Bank.

   13.     A project financial management manual, acceptable to IDA, will be tailored and adoptedby the
   project. A number of actions needto be takento meet IDA's minimum requirements for financial
   management and to support project implementation, as detailed inthe Action Plan, tabledbelow.

   RiskAnalysis and MitigatingMeasures

   14.     Project activities will be implementedacross ten (10) project provinces that have little or no
   experience with IDA fundedproject. The issue of capacity and performanceconsistency at the
   provincial level will be addressedwith training, supervisionand guidancefrom the PCU, which is
   experiencedwith IDA-funded projects. Inaddition, the financial management systemat the provincial
   levels will be set up inclose consultationand with the assistance from the PCU.

   Strengths and Weaknesses

   15.     The APMB has beenworking with a number of World Bankfunded projects and its PCU is
   currently managingthe IDA-funded Agricultural Diversification Project. No major internal control issue
   are recordedinthis project's most recent Auditors' Report. It is expectedthat the PCU's familiarity with
   IDA's financial management anddisbursement policies andprocedureswill speedup project
   implementationwithout negatively affecting financial management standards.

   16.     It is likelythat severalPPIUs have limitedor no experiencewith World Bank-fundedprojects.
`  However, given that ProjectIDA-funded activities at the PPIUs are confined to training and field
   allowancesand operatingcosts, the PPUIs should be able to manage the financial management aspects of
   their activities. Inaddition, training will beprovided to project accountantsfrom time to time andthe
   quarterly reconciliation ofproject income and expenditures will help to improve their skills, knowledge
   and experience.

   AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

   17.     The Project will use accountingpolicies andproceduresacceptableto IDA. For reporting
   purposes, International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) should be usedby the Project. The
   Project will rely as muchas possibleonthe current accountingand reporting systems and internal
   controls of the PCU for its current World Bank-fundedprojects, and modify them as necessaryto comply
   with the DevelopmentCredit Agreement andthe Bank's policies, guidelinesandprocedureson Financial
   Management.

   Reportingand Monitoring

   18.     The project will prepare its annual accountsunder IPSAS and submit its auditedaccounts to the
   Bankno later than 6monthsfrom the closing date ofthe financial yeadperiod. Inaddition to the annual
   accounts, the project will prepare quarterly Financial MonitoringReports (FMR) ina format agreedby
   IDA and submit these to the Bank no later than 45 days from the closing date ofthe reportingquarter.
   The format o fthe FMR is tailored to the monitoring purposes of IDA andto the project management and
   will be madeavailable to the auditors as required.


                                                      - 54 -

FinancialManagementAction Plan
 II                              Actions                               Responsibility    i   Date of

   Agree on the content and formant ofFMR                                  MARD            Negotiation

   Appoint current PCUunder APMB to managethe project                      MARD            Negotiation

   Set up provincial projectimplementing units                         MARDIProvinces     Effectiveness

   Finalizeand adopt projectfinancial managementmanual, as part of
   the PIM, acceptableto IDA                                            MARD/ MOF         Effectiveness

   Set up acomputerized accountingsystem at PMU                            MARD           Effectiveness

   Identifyand appointa full time projectaccountant at PCUand at least
   3 part-timeprojectaccountantsat provincialproject implementing      MARDIProvinces     Effectiveness
   units with qualificationand experienceacceptableto IDA

   Providetraining on project financial managementto project
   accountants                                                             MARD           Effectiveness


Supervision Plan

19.      Supervision of project financial managementwill be performed on a risk-based approach at least
twice a year. The supervisionwill review the project's financial management system, includingbut not
limitedto the operationof Special Account, SOEreview, internal control and financial reporting, and
provide a supervisionreport thereof. Financialmanagement supervisionwill be conducted by IDA'S
financial management specialist.

                                        B. AUDITING     ARRANGEMENTS

20.      The project accounts will be audited annually under International Standardson Auditingby an
independentfirm of public accountants. The audit will be carriedout inaccordance with a TOR
satisfactory to IDA. The Auditor shall be appointed within 6 months from the first disbursement. The
auditors' report will be submittedto IDA by no later than six months after the close of the previous fiscal
year. A management letter addressing internal control weaknesses o f implementationagencies will also
be provided by the auditor together with the audit report. Audit fees are to be covered by the IDA credit.




                                                       - 55 -

                             C. DISBURSEMENT  ARRANGEMENTS

                               Allocationof Credit Proceeds


        Category                               D bursement
                               Amount ($mil)             Expendituresto be financed

(1) Works                       [400,000]                     90%


(2) Goods:

  (a) breedingstock            [1,200,000]         100%of foreign expenditures, 100%
      under PartB.1of                              o f local expenditures (ex-factory
      the Project                                  cost) and 85% of local expenditures
                                                   for other items procuredlocally
  (b) laboratory                [250,000]
      equipmentunder
      Part A.3 ofthe
      Project

  (c) other goods              [1,750,0001


(3)  Consultantsservices        [300,000]          100% for expendituresfor services
     other than under Parts                        of individuals domiciled outsidethe
     A.1.(c), A.2, A.3,                            territory of the Borrower, and 93%
     A.4, for biosecurity                          for expendituresfor services of all
     assessmentunder Part                          other consultants
     B.2 and under Part
     B.3

                           I
(4) Training and                [500,000]                           100%
     workshops other than
     PartsA.l(c), A.2, A.3
     andA.4 ofthe Project


(5)  Incremental                [400,000]                            70%
     OperatingCosts


(6) Unallocated                 [200,000]


         TOTAL:




                                      -56-

Withdrawal applicationand replenishment of specialaccount:

      0      PCU prepares the Withdrawal Application and sends it to MOF for approval (1).
      0      MOF reviews, approves and sends withdrawal application backto PCU (2).
      0      Withdrawal Application is sent to IDA for review and funds transfer (3).
      0      IDA credit is transferredto the SpecialAccount (4).

Paymentsto third partiesfrom SpecialAccount at PCU:
                                                -

      0      Paymentrequest, together with appropriate documentation, is sent to PCU by
             contractors, consultantsand service providers (5).
      0      PCU sends paymentdocumentationto State Treasury for approval of payment(6).
      0      State Treasury notifies PCU its approval(7).
      0      PCUorders the commercial bankto pay IDA'Sshare o f eligible expenditure from Special
             Account (8).
      0      The commercial banktransfer money under remittanceorder by PCU(9).
      0      State Treasury makes paymentof counterpart fund's share of eligible expenditure(11).




                                              - 5 7 -

Direct payments:

        0        Large paymentsto contractors/consultants/service providersare made directly by IDA.
                 Steps (5\ (7) followed by (1)\(3) are performed, with specific requests for direct payment
                 made inthe Withdrawal Application. Paymentwill henbe made directly from IDA (10).

Paymentsto third partiesfrom the SpecialAccount -at PPIU:

       0         Paymentrequest, together with appropriatedocumentation, is sent to PPIUby
                 contractors, consultantsand serviceproviders (12).
                 PPIUsends payment documentationto State Treasury for approval ofpayment(13).
                 State Treasury notifies PCU its approval(14).
                 State Treasury makes payment of counterpartfund's share of eligible expenditure(11).
                 PPIUmakes paymentof IDA'S share of eligible expenditurefrom pre-financing fund (15).
                 PPIUsends paymentdocumentationto PCU for review and consolidation (16).
                 PCU orders reimbursementof Pre-financingFund(8).
                 Reimbursementmade from SpecialAccount to Pre-financingFund(17).

Use of Statementof Expenditure

21.     Expendituresfor (a) goods and works under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each; (b) consultants' services providedby firms under contractscosting less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent each; (c) consultants' services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and incrementaloperatingcosts, will be paid from the SA
and detailed inthe SOE supportingWithdrawal Applications for replenishmentof the SA. Withdrawal
Applications for expendituresexceeding SOE thresholdsthat apply to direct payment (see above) must
be supportedby full documentationand signed contracts. Supportingdocumentationof statements o f
expendituresshould be retainedby the PCU andPPIUs for review by IDA missionsand external
independentauditor acceptableto IDA.

SpecialAccount

22.     A Special Account (SA) inUS Dollars will be openedby the Borrower's central bank at a
commercialbank on terms and conditions acceptableto IDA, and exclusively usedfor the IDA credit.
The bank inwhich the SA is opened shouldbe able to produce monthly bank statements and make these
available to the Project ina timely manner. The initial allocation of SA and its authorized allocation are
set at US$500,000 equivalent. Payment from SA is to be made for IDA'Sshare of the Project's eligible
expenditure, in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement in accordance with World Bank
guidelines. Replenishmentof the SA will be made via Statement of Expenditures, supportedby
appropriate documentation, and submittedto the Bank together with the Withdrawal Application ,at least
every two monthsor when the balanceof the SA is below 70% of its authorized allocation, whichever
comes first.

RetroactiveFinancing

23.     Retroactivefinancing of up to US$ 0.3 million may be used for eligible expendituresincurred
after May 15,2004 and prior to the day of effectiveness. This provision would allow the project to
strengthensurveillanceactivities at atime whenthe riskofresurgenceofthe disease is high. The
Borrower is aware ofthe conditions for retroactive financing and ofthe risks associated with any
payments made inexpectationof retroactivefinancing, provisional agreement which does not commit the
Bank to making a loan for the operationor to financing suchpayments.


                                                   - 58 -

                                                                                           APPENDIX 10

                             THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFVIETNAM

                     AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL EMERGENCY PROJECT


                                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT


1.       Environmental impact. The project's environmentaland social impact would be positive, intwo
areas: (a) by improving laboratory procedures currently inuse and by improvingthe country's security
against a recurrence of the AI epidemic, which would have positive environmentalhealth benefits; and
(b) by improving the policy framework for the managementofpotential future outbreaks, with respectto
the compensation to poultry farmers affectedby cullingmeasuresandwithrespect to the humaneculling
of chickens and environmentalstandards for their disposal. No resettlement would be carried out under
the project.

EnvironmentalIssues

2.       Laboraton, testing and environmental health. Testingfor AI i s currently carried out by the
National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (under the Ministryof Agriculture and RuralDevelopment) and
by the National Instituteo fVeterinary Research. These laboratories now carry out tests to determine the
presence o f the AI H5 subgroup. The H5 diagnosis is based on a standard enzyme-linkedimmuno-
absorbent assay (ELISA), a relatively simple procedure for which there is good capacity inthese
laboratories. Tests to determine the presence of the highly pathogenic form o f the virus (H5N1),the
specific AI subgroup that was responsible for the recent outbreak inVietnam, are currently carried out by
laboratories in Singapore and other locations outside o f Vietnam.

3.        The project would finance: (a) general improvements to the NVDC laboratory and four of its six
Regional Veterinary Centers (RVCs), and to the NNR labs inHanoi and Ho Chi MinhCity; (b) creation
of a Virus Reference Laboratory (VRC) at the NNR laboratory inHanoi and testingand storing samples
o f the strains of H5N1 for applied research and monitoring purposes. The project will not support any
investments related to pathogenicitytesting in live animal models; and (c) upgradingthe technical
capacity and safety equipment inthe labs.

4.        The project would have apositive impact on laboratory worker safety, reducingopportunities for
transmission of AI to humans by providing more safe facilities and buildingcapacity for their use. The
project will improve and ensure safety by meeting international standards established by the OIE (World
Organizationfor Animal Health). The adoption of and adherenceto OIE standards will be assistedand
supervisedthrough technical assistance from FAO. The investments to establish a VRL is subject to two
conditionalities: (a) the preparationof an accident mitigation plan, and (b) the construction of the VRL
under acceptable biosafety standards, bothunderterms acceptable to the Bank.

5.       Environmental Management on Poultry Farms. The project would assistthe Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development to develop a strategy for managingfuture AI outbreaks. The strategy
would cover the necessary elements for detection o f pathogens and measuresto prevent the spread of the
disease and control and eradicate outbreaks. The project would have potentially positive environmental
impacts by adopting OIE standards intwo areas:
     (a) Enhancing biosecurity and health status of all GP poultry breedingfarms. The Awareness and
         Public Information Component C would train farm staff in basic hygiene principles and the


                                                   - 5 9 -

        proper use of disinfectants, increasinghumansafety by lesseningthe risk of exposure to avian
        influenza; and
    (b) Ensuringthat environmentalsafeguards are mainstreamedinto protocols andprocedures
        designedto control outbreaks. The issues ofenvironmental importancehere include (i)        storage
        anduse o f surfactantsusedto disinfect farms after an outbreak, and (ii)  handling and disposalof
        poultry that are identified for culling to control outbreaks, with regardto humaneeuthanizingof
        animals and disposal of carcasses that avoids contaminationof ground water.

Social Issues

6.      Socio-economic. On a national scale the A I epidemic has cost Vietnam 0.3% of GDP, equivalent
to severalhundredmillion U S dollars, and financially affected some 9 million households. The poultry
sub-sector comprises 17% of agricultural GDP. The project would provide country-wide field
surveillance that would play an important role inpreventingthe recurrence of AI, thereby safeguarding
the poultry farmers' investmentandfostering producer and consumer confidence. Although arecurrence
of A I can never be ruled out with absolute certainty, the chances of identifying new flare-ups at a very
early stage will be greatly improvedprovided the project activities are carriedout vigorously. Project
benefits to stakeholders, from restockingand increased protection against AI, are substantial, especially
for those without the financial means to restock.

7.      The socio-economic impact of project interventionswill be very positive. With the emphasis on
smallholder poultry owners, many ofthem women who have suffered significant financial lossesfrom
destocking,, and an early warning and other preventionmeasures to assistthe poultry sector inguarding
against the recurrence of AI. Great care will be takento ensure that the restocking exercise does not
trigger new outbreaks. This will be done by stringent monitoring and testing ofreplacementstock
suppliersunder the SurveillanceComponent, and registeringthese enterprises as being disease-free.

8.      Social Issues inthe Emergency Stratem.The project's assistance to MARD indevelopinga
strategyto manage future AI outbreaks would have a positive social impact by ensuringdevelopment of
GoV's policy on compensationfor poultry farmers affectedby future outbreaks.




                                                    - 60-

                                                                           APPENDIX 11


                           THE SOCIALISTREPUBLICOFVIETNAM

                       AVIAN INFLUENZACONTROLEMERGENCYPROJECT


                                 MONITORINGEVALUATION
                                               AND


//  ProjectComponent              PerformanceIndicator              Methodof Verification

  1. StrengthenDisease          0 National Action Planreviewedand       Acceptance ofNAP by
     Surveillance,                strengthened                          MARD Steering
    Diagnostic Capacity,          NVDC and4 Regional Veterinary         Committee
    andHPAIResearch             0
                                  Centers upgraded                      Fieldsurveillance
                                                                        reports from RVCs
                                0 75% average monitoring coverage
                                  inprovinces                         0 Survey Report

                                0 100%monitoring of GP poultry          Supervisionreports,
                                  breedingfarms                         training and

                                0 Virus reference laboratory for        procurementreports
                                  HPAIestablished at NIVR               DAHEmergency
                                                                        outbreak reports
  2. Poultry Sector             0 15,000 GP stock delivered             Delivery reportsfrom
     Rehabilitation                                                     breedingfarms
                                0 Biosecurity works, equipment and
                                  training inplace 10months           0  Completion reports
                                  following project onset                from breedingfarms

                                0 Compensationstudy completed

                                0 Poultry losses survey completed

  3. Public Awareness and       0 Trained staff appointedat NAEC      0  Progress reports
     InformationCampaign        0 A communication strategy has           Consumerawareness
                                  been designed                          survey
                                  Preparationof materials and         0  Assessment report by
                                  messagescompleted                      NAEC
                                  Community-based reporting
                                  systemeffective


  4. Project Management         0 PCU fully activated                 0  PCUreport

                                0 Timely procurement                  0  Final Study reports
                                                                         received

                                                                      0  Project
                                                                         Implementation reports



                                              - 61 -


MAP SECTION


