Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB940 
Project Name 
VN-Avian Influenza Control Emergency 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Animal production (70%);Agricultural extension and research 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P088362 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development 
2
Ngoc Ha St 
Vietnam 
Tel: 844-8437520 
Fax: 844-7330752 
icdmard@fpt.vn 
Vietnamese Government 
Vietnam 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 28, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 14, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
August 26, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Since the Government of Vietnam declared the presence of the H5N1 strain of Highly 
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI)
1
,
an estimated 44 million poultry have either died of the 
disease or have been culled.  The disease has spread to most countries in Southeast Asia, and 
Vietnam is one of two countries in the region in which human fatalities from the disease 
occurred as the result of direct transmission of the virus from poultry to humans.  As yet, 
however, it has not developed the capacity to spread between humans.  After the first confirmed 
cases, the outbreak spread rapidly throughout the country.  Lacking the necessary, fine-tuned 
field monitoring systems and diagnostic capacity to deal with the outbreak by means of selective, 
strategic containment, the Government adopted a policy of depopulating large areas in which 
both infected and non-infected poultry were culled.  All poultry movement was halted, live-
poultry markets were closed, and stringent disinfection and other biosecurity measures were 
introduced.  A new outbreak was reported on May 4 in the Ho Chi Minh area.  Since early March 
these measures have been relaxed on a province-by-province basis whenever it is observed that 
30 days have elapsed since the last outbreak. 
 
1
First reported to OIE on 8 January 2004. 
Page  2
Table 1.   Avian Influenza in Vietnam (as of February 24, 2004) 
Human Health 
Total suspected cases 
No. of deaths from confirmed HPAI 
80 
15 
Animal Health 
No. of infected provinces 
No. of infected districts 
No. of infected communes  
No. of poultry destroyed 
 
57 (64)             (89.1%) 
381 (552)         (69.0%) 
1,562 (8,970)   (17.4%) 
44  million       (17.0%) 
Aside from the significant public health implications, total poultry losses from the outbreak 
amount to nearly one-sixth of the national poultry inventory.  These losses are creating serious 
economic hardship, not only for commercial and rural poultry owners but also for the poultry 
service trade. With the withdrawal of poultry meat from the market the prices of other meats 
have risen by as much as thirty percent, well beyond the reach of lower income consumers. 
While the epidemic appears to have been controlled and few positive cases have recently been 
reported, there remains a strong possibility that with the resumption of poultry trade and the re-
stocking of depopulated farms, new flare-ups will occur.  Since these flare-ups may well 
coincide with the season of human influenza the risk of genetic exchange between the two types 
of virus, whilst concurrently infecting a common host, remains a remote possibility with 
potentially serious public health outcomes should human to human transmission result. 
 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
.
The severe form of Avian Influenza (AI) termed highly 
pathogenic (HPAI), at one time known as “fowl plague”, is throughout the world one of the two 
most feared diseases of poultry and other birds.  This is not only because of the devastation it 
may cause, with flock mortality of up to 100% in the case of the H5 subtype, but also due to the 
economic impact resulting from trading restrictions and embargoes placed on infected areas.  
The disease is recognized as a World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) List A Disease.  At 
the same time, the outbreak of AI is of great concern owing to its public health implications. 
H5N1 viruses currently have only a limited ability to infect humans, but their continued 
circulation in Vietnam increases the possibility that these viruses may acquire the ability to easily 
infect people and be transmitted from person to person. 
 
Damage Assessment  
 
In terms of economic losses, the total cost of poultry culling in infected areas, along with farm 
disinfection and bird disposal, is estimated to be VND600 billion (US$40 million).  In addition, 
losses of a similar order of magnitude resulted from upstream and downstream impacts by 
commercial and rural poultry holders and poultry traders, feed mills, and lost production by 
broiler and layer farms. Containing the epidemic is estimated to have cost the government 
VND600 billion, for protective clothes, equipment, disinfectants, incremental operation costs and 
salaries, information campaigns, and compensation – though limited –to affected poultry 
farmers.  The estimated total damage assessment thus amounts to VND1,800 billion (US$120 
million), equivalent to 0.3% of GNP.  In comparison, the estimated project investment cost of 
only US $6.2 million suggests a highly favorable economic rate of return for the project. 
 
Page  3
Government Strategy and Response 
 
The government reacted forcefully to contain the HPAI epidemic, once its scope and ferocity 
became apparent. It established a multi-ministerial Steering Committee to control the avian 
influenza epidemic, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and 
comprising representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), 
Health, Finance, Planning and Investment, and others.  A National Action Plan was drafted to 
provide guidelines for containing the epidemic and define the respective responsibilities at the 
central and provincial levels. At the commune and village levels, Commune AI Control 
Committees, comprising commune leaders and animal health workers, sampled affected farms 
and supervised the control of animal movement, culling and disposal. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objectives of the proposed project are threefold, supporting the National 
Action Plan for the control of Avian Influenza Epidemic: 
(a) 
Strengthening disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity in the control of HPAI; 
(b) 
Strengthening the poultry sector infrastructure to better cope with serious disease 
outbreaks; and 
(c) 
Safeguarding human health by improving public awareness and information. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Rationale for IDA involvement.
 
Soon after the onset of the crisis, MARD requested World Bank assistance to help limit the 
spread of the AI outbreak and to consider an emergency recovery operation for Vietnam.  
MARD considers that the Bank has an important role to play by helping Government to 
coordinate donor assistance. 
 
The Government is very much in need of expert technical advice on the strategy it should follow 
to recover from the present crisis and for the future control of AI.  The recent epidemic clearly 
revealed the inadequacy of its veterinary and extension services to cope with an animal health 
epidemic of this nature.  Because of its many years of close collaboration with MARD, the Bank 
can communicate effectively with the Government both on agricultural policy and technical 
matters.  On the technical aspects, the Bank developed strong ties to international organizations 
such as FAO, OIE and WHO.  The Bank has also been involved in longer term matters 
concerning WTO accession. The build-up of adequate capacity to meet Sanitary and 
Phytosanitary (SPS) requirements are of critical importance for Vietnam. 
 
Rationale.  
The project is designed as an emergency recovery operation to quickly assist the 
Government in responding to the consequences of a devastating poultry disease epidemic that 
not only seriously damaged the poultry sector but also created equally serious human health and 
welfare consequences.  The government’s veterinary, diagnostic and surveillance services were 
Page  4
completely overwhelmed by the Avian Influenza (AI) epidemic, as 57 of 64 provinces 
experienced outbreaks before the epidemic was contained, with a loss of 44 million birds.  
 
According to several reports prepared by FAO animal disease and epidemiological experts who 
visited Vietnam to assist the Government in containing the epidemic, it is unlikely that, despite 
the absence of new outbreaks, the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) virus has been 
totally eliminated from the country.  To safeguard against future devastating outbreaks, the 
Project has been designed to develop rapid-response disease diagnostic and surveillance 
networks through which future animal disease outbreaks, should they occur, can be more rapidly 
and accurately identified and addressed.  Such networks will provide the Government with much 
needed, timely and accurate advice on the measures and strategies to employ in countering new 
outbreaks.  Linked to these networks the Project also supports a rapid disease reporting and 
feedback system and addresses public awareness and public health aspects by supporting 
upgraded and expanded public awareness and the distribution of information by means of printed 
and electronic mass media. 
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed project would be implemented by MARD in ten provinces and comprise four 
components: 
 
Component A 
–
Strengthening diagnostic capacity, animal disease surveillance, and HPAI 
research (US$2.8 million).
 
This Component is designed to expand and upgrade the existing 
diagnostic capacity of one central and four regional veterinary diagnostic laboratories to better 
identify infectious animal diseases.  To provide these laboratories with more rapid and accurate 
diagnosis of disease outbreaks in the field, a rapid response field surveillance and reporting 
system will be established to identify and report animal disease outbreaks.  
 
Component B – Poultry sub-sector rehabilitation (US$2.2 million).
 
This Component aims to: 
(a) assist selected poultry beneficiaries who have suffered substantial losses poultry during the 
AI epidemic; (b) strengthen the national poultry breeding resources with additional certified 
disease-free stock; and (c) upgrade bio-security against disease invasion of 12 GP poultry 
breeding farms.  The Component would finance breeding stock, equipment, chemicals and 
disinfectants, training, and consultant services.
 
Component C – Public awareness and information campaign (US$0.83 million).
 
The purpose 
of this Component is threefold: (a) to carry out a needs assessment of existing poultry extension 
and public information programs; (b) to develop community-based extension to farmers and 
public awareness to the public; and (c) to enhance monitoring and evaluation of ongoing 
extension programs.
 
Component D - Project Management (US$0.37 million)
.
This Component would support the 
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the IDA-funded Agricultural Diversification Project, now 
under implementation, in its day-to-day project management activities.
 
Page  5
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.65 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5.00 
FAO 0.55 
DANIDA 
To be determined 
 
Total Project Cost:
6.20 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Project Organization and Management 
 
Oversight, Coordination and Monitoring of Project Activities
.
The existing National Steering 
Committee (NSC) for Avian Influenza Control, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, will provide general policies and guidelines to project implementation, review 
annual work plans, and ensure coordination and linkages with relevant agencies.  The NSC is 
composed of human health and veterinary agencies tasked with overseeing national AI control 
and eradication operations.  In addition, donor coordination is critical for emergency operations 
and would be the responsibility of the International Support Group (ISG) Secretariat in MARD. 
 
The National Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the on-going IDA-funded 
Agricultural 
Diversification
 
Project
 will be responsible, under the overall guidance of the NSC, for day-to-
day implementation, supervision, and project monitoring.  The PCU will be strengthened by the 
recruitment of additional staff responsible for overall administration, procurement, and financial 
management of the project.  It is agreed that at least one senior officer from each DAH, DA, and 
NAEC will be seconded to the PCU to guide project implementation.  These officers could be 
appointed as Project Deputy Director(s) in charge of the respective component for which their 
line agency is responsible.  The PCU, under the direction of the NSC, will be responsible for 
coordinating with DAH, DA, NCAE and other institutions to guide and monitor project 
implementation at the provincial and local levels. 
 
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Audit Arrangements 
 
Assessment of financial management was carried out at the PCU during appraisal. It was agreed 
that the PCU will operate the project’s financial management system to facilitate the project’s 
implementation start-up as they are familiar with the Bank’s policies and procedures on financial 
management.  The project will produce quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and 
project accounts will be audited by a recognized independent auditor. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
 
The PCU will be responsible for M&E of the Project. Each line Department and NAEC will 
assign specific persons at the central and provincial levels who are responsible for monitoring the 
quality and quantity of progress. For the restocking activity under Component B, the VWU will 
Page  6
be responsible for carrying out M&E as part of its work. Progress reports for each component 
should include, directly linked to project activities, indicators that measure not only progress but 
also the quality of that progress. Project managers should consult with NAEC staff concerning 
the use of key indicators that are easily measured and provide useful information of progress 
made and remedial actions to be taken. 
 
Environmental and Social Aspects 
 
The project is designed to assist with recovery of the poultry sub-sector in an environmentally 
and socially sustainable manner.  The project would have a positive impact on environmental 
health, reducing the risks to laboratories staff by improving the safety of handling and testing AI 
at four provincial and two national laboratories that are currently engaged in such work.  The 
project’s assistance to MARD to develop a strategy for managing future AI outbreaks provides 
an opportunity to ensure environmental and social sustainability, in two areas: (a) mainstreaming 
environmental safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal of animals 
during an outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE (World Organization for Animal Health) 
standards in these areas; and (b) development of GoV’s policy on compensation for poultry 
farmers affected by future outbreaks.  For each of these activities (upgrading laboratory safety 
and efficiency and developing the strategy for future AI outbreaks), the project would facilitate 
the adoption and use of OIE standards.  The project includes technical assistance to be delivered 
by FAO for achieving these standards. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Project sustainability may be at risk if government capacity in AI monitoring and the control 
systems developed under AIERP were not adequately maintained due to lack of government 
budgetary support. As a consequence, restocked poultry received by farmers might be decimated 
by a resurgence of AI, poor management or other poultry diseases. Of special importance is the 
timeliness with which procurement will be achieved, which in turn drives the disbursement rate 
and timeliness of project implementation. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Relevant lessons for the design of the proposed project can be drawn from previous IDA and 
FAO-supported emergency recovery projects outside Vietnam.  Most of these projects have 
focused on the supply of planting materials (seeds and fruit trees) and other agricultural inputs.  
Lessons learned from these emergency operations indicate that project success depends entirely 
on the speed of the inputs supplied.  In production systems, particularly for smallholders, 
efficient and transparent distribution of suitable key inputs is clearly a major factor in limiting 
the impact of a crisis and hastening recovery. 
 
Although IDA has not supported previous emergency projects in Vietnam, it did support two 
emergency projects in neighboring Cambodia: the Emergency Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2550) 
approved in 1993, and the Economic Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2781) in 1995.  A Flood 
Emergency Rehabilitation Project was also approved for Cambodia in March 2001.  A 
performance audit of the first two projects drew the following relevant lessons for project design, 
Page  7
which should: (a) be consistent and cohesive, (b) be simple in design and taking account of 
limited borrower’s capacity; and (c) entail no policy reforms. 
 
Other important lessons from past emergency projects in the region conclude that: (a) speed of 
appraisal and implementation are crucial to project success; (b) procurement needs to be flexible 
and begin at an early stage; (c) mitigation measures should be included to minimize repeat 
disaster; and (d) project design should remain simple for rapid execution. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Laurent Msellati, Task Team Leader 
Title: Sr Operations Off. 
World Bank Country Office in Vietnam 
Tel:   84-4-9346600 
Fax:  84-4-9346597 
Email: Lmsellati@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
