Page  1
Hanoi – February 11, 2004 
C:\…..\PIDMAY11.DOC 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB906 
Project Name 
VN-Avian Influenza Control Emergency 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Animal production (70%);Agricultural extension and research (30%) 
Project ID 
P088362 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 11, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 30, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 6, 2004 
 
A. 
Circumstances of the Disaster and Preliminary Damage Estimates 
 
1. 
Epidemiological Status
.  On December 24, 2003, the province of Long An, in South Vietnam reported 
chickens dying.  Similar reports were made in a neighboring province on December 26, 2003.  The Government 
of Vietnam officially declared the presence of Avian Influenza (AI) on January 8, 2004.  The initial report 
indicated that two provinces and three communes were affected.  Subsequent sample collection and testing 
revealed that the samples from chickens tested positive for the H5N1 virus which is considered to be Highly 
Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) and samples from ducks tested positive for H3N8.  The disease spread 
rapidly to other provinces in the South and also in the North and the trend continues to rise. 
 
2. 
Situation as of February 6, 2004 (Table 1)
.  To date 56 provinces, of a total of 64 
(Annex 1)
, and 1,562 
communes, out of a total of approximately of 9,000, have been hit by HPAI.  As was the case with SARS, the 
H5N1 avian influenza epidemic (AI epidemic) has had a limited impact in terms of human cases and fatalities:  
of the 15 cases which tested positive to H5N1, 11 persons have succumbed to the disease.  So far all the human 
cases have been in people in close contact with sick birds.  There have been no confirmed cases of human-to-
human transmission.  However, there will be a continuing threat to human health as long as the infection is 
present in poultry production systems throughout Asia. 
 
Table 1 – Avian Influenza in Vietnam (as of February 6, 2004) 
Human Health 
Total Cases 
Number of Deaths 
15 
11 
Animal Health 
Number of infected provinces 
Number of infected communes  
Number of culled and destroyed birds
 
56 (/64) 
1,562 (/9,000) 
approximately 15 million 
 
3. 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
.  The severe form of Avian Influenza (AI) termed highly 
pathogenic (HPAI), at one time known as “fowl plague”, is throughout the world one of the two most feared 
diseases of poultry and other birds.  This is not only because of the devastation it may cause, with flock 
mortality of up to 100% in the case of the H5 subtype, but also due to the economic impact resulting from 
trading restrictions and embargoes placed on infected areas.  The disease is recognized as a World Organization 
for Animal Health (OIE) List A Disease.  At the same time, the outbreak of AI is of great concern owing to its 
public health implications. H5N1 viruses currently have only a limited ability to infect humans, but their 
continued circulation in Vietnam increases the possibility that these viruses may acquire the ability to easily 
infect people and be transmitted from person to person (see Letter from WHO, OIE and FAO to Prime Minister, 
Annex 2
). 
 
4. 
Preliminary Damage Estimates
.  Given the nature of the disease and the evolving epidemiological 
situation, the extent of damage is difficult to gauge at this stage, but it is without doubt a real catastrophe for the 
poultry industry (mainly chickens, but also ducks) and already affects the livelihoods of thousands of farmers.  
Page  2
- 2 - 
Of a total of around 12 million farming households in Vietnam, most of them smallholders (average farm size is 
0.9 ha/family), it is estimated that some 70% raise poultry.  Moreover, many households in urban and peri-urban 
areas also raise backyard poultry.  In addition to the public health implications, this disease therefore has major 
socio-economic consequences for Vietnam and the region. 
 
B. 
Potential Economic Effects 
 
5. 
The estimated value-added in chicken farming in 2003 was 0.6 percent of GDP, or the equivalent of 
$232 million per year.  This means that if chicken production were to fall to zero for a period of six months, the 
loss of income could amount to as much as 0.3 percent of GDP, or US$116 million.  This is an overestimate, as 
it does not take into account substitution effects in agricultural production. 
 
6. 
Another way to assess the impact of the avian influenza epidemic on the poultry sector is to estimate 
the ensuing loss in production.  As of February 5, 2004, around 15 million birds had been culled.  Containing 
the outbreak of the epidemic could require the culling of all 233 million chickens and other farm birds such as 
ducks and quails in Vietnam. The retail price of a chicken is roughly VND 45,000.  The value of production lost 
in the short term as of today thus amounts to approximately US$ 45 million.  Containing the epidemic could 
increase this cost to US$ 690 million, or the equivalent of 1.8 percent of the country’s annual GDP. 
 
7. 
The distribution of this cost across the population very much depends on 
the nature of
 
the 
compensation policy
 adopted by the Government.  At present, chicken owners receive VND5,000 per bird from 
Central Government.  Some provinces have chosen to top this up. For farmers, the net loss thus depends on 
where in the country they live.  During normal times, the price of a chicken at the farm gate ranges from VND 
5,000 to 15,000.  Using an average of VND 10,000 (the usual price for a chicken between one and two 
kilograms) the loss per bird culled would amount to VND5,000.  The remaining VND 40,000 would be lost by 
traders and, through tax revenue, by the general population. 
 
8. 
The proportion of households selling poultry and eggs in each quintile of the population, from poorest 
to richest, is reported in Table 2.  This table also reports the average income from poultry, in each quintile, as a 
fraction of average household expenditure.  It appears that income from poultry and eggs is more significant 
among the poorest part of the population, and especially within the poorest quintile.  However, these estimates 
assume that income from other sources remains unchanged.  The avian influenza epidemic has also prompted 
dramatic increases in the price of pork and beef. 
 
Table 2 – Household Income from Poultry and Eggs 
 
Quintile (based on expenditure per capita) 
 Poorest 
2
nd
 Middle 4
th
 Richest 
 
Households 
selling 
poultry 
(in 
%) 
68.3 63.5 59.5 43.8 15.7 
 
Households 
selling 
eggs 
(in 
%) 
49.5 44.6 39.7 29.9 10.2 
 Income from poultry and eggs 
 (in % of household expenditure) 
7.1 5.8 6.7 5.2 1.7 
Source:  Data are from GSO’s Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey of 2002. 
 
9. 
Additionally, SARS-type effects would be felt if international travel were disrupted.  This further 
impact would initially affect the tourism industry.  The effects of the avian influenza epidemic on international 
travel to Vietnam have so far been limited, but some travel agents report a decline in bookings of up to 20 
percent. 
 
10. 
The combined effects of avian influenza epidemic on the value added of the poultry sector and the 
tourism sector are shown in Table 3, under three scenarios.  In the first, or “optimistic” scenario, the epidemic 
recedes rapidly without requiring a massive culling of birds and without affecting international arrivals.  In the 
second,  (“intermediate”), the epidemic is contained relatively quickly with an output loss equal to three months, 
but the disease does not spread significantly to humans and international travel declines by 5 percent on an 
annual basis.  The third scenario (“pessimistic”) considers a six-month loss of output from poultry, and adds the 
negative impact of a decline in international arrivals comparable to that prompted by SARS. 
 
Page  3
- 3 - 
Table 3 - Estimated Economic Impact of Avian influenza epidemic 
Scenario 
Cost (in percent of GDP) 
Optimistic Intermediate Pessimistic 
 Poultry sector 
0.15 % 
0.15 % 
0.3 % 
 Tourism sector 
0.0 % 
0.4 % 
0.6 % 
 Total 
0.15 
%
 0.55 
%
 0.9 
%
 
 
11. 
In conclusion, as long as the avian influenza epidemic does not spread to humans, its overall economic 
impact will be less than one percent of GDP, which is manageable.  However, the impact will vary considerably 
depending on whether the epidemic can be contained at an early stage or requires the culling of all poultry and 
seriously disrupts international arrivals.  The gap between the optimistic and the pessimistic scenarios highlights 
the importance of decisive action at this stage.  It also appears that the avian influenza epidemic could affect the 
poor more than did SARS.  Appropriate compensation policies for bird culling and restocking of farms are 
important to mitigate this social impact. 
 
C. 
Response of the Government and the International Community 
 
12. 
The GoV has set up a Committee to handle the emergency
.  The Committee, the National Steering 
Committee for Avian Flu Control, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, is composed 
of human health and veterinary agencies tasked to oversee operations.  Provincial authorities have undertaken 
the destruction of birds, both sick and exposed.  They are informing farmers and consumers of the nature of the 
disease and of the risks to human health.  In addition, national and provincial authorities have banned all poultry 
sales and imposed a strict control on movements of live poultry. 
 
13. 
Various organizations are now working closely with the Vietnamese authorities
, under the coordination 
of WHO and FAO.  An Avian Influenza Task Force has been established at the WHO Office in Hanoi.  A team 
from the CDC, Atlanta, arrived in mid-January and is now assisting WHO on the surveillance of people with 
respiratory illnesses.  In addition, FAO is channeling US$400,000 from the EU (ECHO Program for 
emergency), ADB has provided US$50,000 for protective equipment, JICA has sent an expert in logistics to the 
Department of Animal Health (DAH), and the Governments of France and the Netherlands have sent two 
veterinary epidemiologists.  Veterinarians Without Borders (VSF), a French NGO working in Vietnam in the 
field of animal health, has also been very active since the start of the outbreak and has begun its own program in 
Phu Tho Province, which it intends to expand to other provinces in the North.  Several other agencies and NGOs 
have offered their assistance.  There is a lot going on but efforts need to be sustained. 
 
14. 
Donor Coordination
.  Cognizant of the importance of donor coordination, MARD has scheduled a 
meeting for February 10, 2004 under the aegis of the International Support Group (ISG).  During that meeting, 
MARD will present to the Donor Community its draft Action Plan to control Avian Influenza Epidemic in 
Vietnam.  MARD is expected to call for financial and technical support from the donor community in a joint 
effort to control this epidemic. 
 
15. 
At the international level
.  On February 3-4, 2004, an expert consultation on Avian Influenza was 
organized by FAO/OIE/WHO in Rome.  The conclusions and recommendations of the consultations are 
presented in 
Annex 3
.  This sanitary crisis reminds us that it is urgent and important for the donor community, 
and the Bank in particular, to support our client countries in strengthening the technical, scientific and 
operational (resources and independence) capacity of their Veterinary Services, since the origins of this outbreak 
are – according to the experts – a consequence of failings in surveillance, early warning, and control of 
movement of infection between domestic poultry, and its scale largely due to a lack of timely reporting of 
infection.  Another important element, in addition to the pathogenecity of the H5N1 strain, is the characteristic 
of the poultry sector in Asia having a concentration of birds kept under intensive systems but badly protected, 
combined with a multitude of scavenging chickens coming into contact with them and with wild birds. These 
factors together call for a restructuring of the sector. 
 
D. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
16. 
At the onset of the crisis, MARD requested World Bank assistance to help limit the spread of the AI 
outbreak and to consider an emergency operation for Vietnam.  The Ministry considers that the World Bank has 
Page  4
- 4 - 
an important role to play in the donor community by providing leadership and helping the GoV coordinate 
international assistance. 
 
17. 
On the technical aspects, the Bank has accumulated world-wide experience in the animal health sector 
and can count on a good pool of expertise within the SASKI Thematic Group, with very strong ties to 
international organizations such as FAO, OIE and WHO. 
 
18. 
Beyond these technical skills, the World Bank has also been involved on the longer term agenda of 
WTO accession under the SPS framework, which is of critical importance for Vietnam. 
 
E. 
World Bank Assistance and Conceptual Framework 
 
19. 
We propose a phased approach which would be under Vietnamese led coordination: 
\01\02
In the short term, between February-May 2004 (3 months),
 to assist the GoV, principally through 
MARD, in controlling the epidemic under a concerted emergency response through the use of part of 
the SARS JSDF Grant (estimated amount: US$100,000-200,000); and  
\01\02
In the medium-term, between June 2004-December 2005 (18 months),
 to assist MARD in rehabilitating 
the poultry industry and strengthening veterinary services (for all species), through an Emergency 
Recovery Loan (estimated amount: US$5-10 million).  In addition, an emergency credit is eligible for a 
PHRD  
co-financing grant for technical assistance for up to 75 percent of the cost of the component, subject to 
a ceiling of US$5 million. 
 
20. 
The ERL preparation phase will also be a vehicle for the provision of Technical Assistance to MARD 
during the first phase and engage broad-based consultation with all stakeholders involved in the livestock sector, 
including farmer organizations, public veterinary services, the private sector, rural credit institutions, and NGOs.  
Several multilateral and bilateral agencies have indicated their interest in assisting with the preparation of the 
ERL (AFD ?) and in co-financing the project (Netherlands? Australia? EU?).  In addition, preliminary contacts 
have been made with the OIE which has signaled a willingness to participate closely in this program as well as 
to develop a regional strategy.  The regional dimension will be critical given the number of countries affected by 
the disease. 
 
21. 
Conceptual Framework
.  A matrix presented in 
Annex 4
 has been prepared by the Bank Team to cope 
with the emergency nature of the situation and to address the phasing of the epidemics including: (a) Phase 1: 
Suspicion and beginning of crisis; (b) Phase 2: On-going crisis; (c) Phase 3: End of crisis and return to normal 
situation; and (d) Phase 4: Post-crisis.  The possibility of resurgence of the disease is also included in the matrix.   
 
22. 
Both proposed Bank-supported interventions will be designed to fit into this conceptual framework.  
Possible components include:  (a) Information and Communication; (b) Coordination and Collaboration;  (c) 
Control and Eradication; (d) Human Health issues including Food Safety; (e) Analysis and Reporting; (f) 
Rehabilitation; and (g) Capacity Building. 
 
F. 
Short term Interventions:  JSDF Proposal 
 
23. 
Objective:
  Support Field Veterinary Services in Surveillance and Awareness in seven provinces: four 
in the North (Phu Tho, Yen Bai, Son La, Ha Tay Provinces); and three in the South (Tien Giang, An Giang, 
Long An Provinces).  The project will support two NGOs which are active in those provinces, namely VSF in 
the North and CARE in the South.  It will also provide direct support to the provincial authorities to address the 
needs of infected communities and directly affected farmers. 
 
 
24. 
Description:
  The Grant will be implemented over a period of three months and will support:  (a) the 
establishment of two regional coordination units, one in the North and one in the South, including the 
recruitment of temporary staff (Regional Coordinators, Trainers, IT Specialists, Assistants\Interpreters), to 
develop, coordinate and monitor the training and surveillance programs, the provision of equipment 
(computers), and the financing of incremental operating costs; (b) the implementation by VSF and CARE of 
surveillance, awareness and training programs in seven provinces, through the recruitment of temporary staff, 
the provision of equipment, the production of newsletters, maps and training material, and the financing of 
Page  5
- 5 - 
incremental operating costs; and (c) the infected communes in implementing an effective control program, 
including culling, destruction and desinfection activities by Communes Animal Health Workers. 
 
25. 
Costs
.  Table 4 below presents a cost estimate. 
 
Table 4 – Estimated Costs of Short Term Interventions 
 
 
G. 
Medium term Interventions:  Proposed Emergency Recovery Loan 
 
26. 
Objectives
:  The main objectives of the project will be to: (a) contribute to the rehabilitation of the 
poultry industry in the most severely affected areas; and (b) strengthen the national capacity to control animal 
diseases. 
 
27. 
Description.
  A detailed description of project components is not possible at this stage in the 
development of the disease.  Nevertheless, an ERL is likely to include the following activities: 
\01\02
Capacity building of Veterinary Services
.  The preparation of this component can be initiated in the 
early phases on the crisis since it has been evidenced that the origins and scale of the epizootie were 
mainly due to failure of surveillance, early warning, and control of movement by competent authorities.  
Thus there is a clear need to strengthen technical, scientific and operational capacities of Veterinary 
Services. 
\01\02
Revision of Legislative and Regulatory Framework
, including incentive framework in the poultry 
sector, development of HPIA contingency plan, and extension of contingency plan to other major 
epizootic diseases. 
\01\02
Technical Assistance
1
 to affected farmers in the most severely affected provinces. 
\01\02
Estimated Costs
:  US$5-10 million 
                                                          
 
1
  
At this stage, the project is not expected to provide financial assistance which would dramatically increase 
project costs.  However, the project will explore the financial mechanism for help the farmers restore their 
source of incomes. 
Component
Unit
Qt.
Unit Cost
Total
A.  Establishment of Regional Coordination Units (VSF)
    1.  Recruitment of Temporay Staff
cost\month
3
8,000
24,000
    2.  Equipment and Goods (Computers, LCD, …)
lumpsum
2
5,000
10,000
    3.  Incremental Operating Costs (Car rental, petrol, tel, airplane tickets, etc…)
cost\month
3
4,000
12,000
sub-total
46,000
B.  Support to Field Veterinary Services (VSF-CARE)
    1.  Surveillance
lumpsum\province
7
8,000
56,000
    2.  Awareness and Training
lumpsum\province
7
3,000
21,000
    3.  NGOs overhead and Management Fees (10%)
lumpsum\province
7
1,100
7,700
sub-total
84,700
C.  Support Disease Control and Eradication Program in Infected Communes
    1.  Equipment and Goods (Sprayers, Protective Equipment, Desinfectants, ect….)
Lumpsum\Commune
100
500
50,000
    2.  Incremental Operating Costs (Car rental, petrol, tel, field allowances, etc…)
Lumpsum\Province
7
2,500
17,500
sub-total
67,500
TOTAL
TOTAL
198,200
Page  6
- 6 - 
 
 
Annexes
 
Annex 1
: 
Map:  Avian Influenza in Vietnam – Situation as February 6, 2004 
Annex 2
: 
Letter from WHO, OIE and FAO to Prime Minister Organization (dated 
January 28, 2004) 
Annex 3
: 
FAO/OI/WHO Technical Conclusion on the Control of Avian Influenza – Rome, February 3-4, 
2004 – Conclusions and Recommendations 
Annex 4
: 
Conceptual Framework to Control Avian Influenza in Vietnam 
 
 
 
 
 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb16201\Local 
S
 
Page  7
- 7 - 
 
Page  8
- 8 - 
 
1. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project and in what ways?  
What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
2. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 1.5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
8 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
.5 
 
Total 10 
 
3. Contact 
point 
Contact: Laurent Msellati 
Title: Sr Operations Off. 
Tel: (202) 473-4129 
Fax:  
Email: Lmsellati@worldbank.org 
 
WB16201 
N:\Khorami\AvianFlu\PIDmay11.doc 
May 11, 2004 9:26 AM
 
