                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                              Report No: ICR0000664




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                        (IDA-39690 JPN-54219)

                                                    ON

                                                A CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
                                 (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                           THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                                    FOR

           THE AVIAN INFLUENZA EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                           December 19, 2007




Rural Development, Natural Resources and Environment Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective November 28, 2007)

                              Currency Unit = Dong (VND)
                                 VND 1.00 = US$0.00006
                                   US$1.00 = VND16,047

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement
AI        Avian Influenza
AVSF      Agronomes et Vétérinaires sans frontières
CAHW      Commune Animal Health Worker
DAH       Department of Animal Health
DLP       Department of Livestock Production
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO-CP    FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program
GP        Grand-Parent (stock)
GPAI      Global Program for AI and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response
HPAI      Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
MARD      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH       Ministry of Health
NAEC      National Agricultural Extension Center
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
NPV       Net Present Value
NIAH      National Institute of Animal Husbandry
NIVR      National Institute of Veterinary Research
NVDC      National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (Hanoi)
OIE       Office Internationale des Epizooties/World Organisation for Animal Health
OPI       Integrated National Operational Program for the Avian and Human Influenza 2006-2010
PDO       Project Development Objective
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PPIU      Provincial Project Implementation Unit
RVC       Regional Veterinary Center
SDR       Special Drawing Right
TCP       Technical Cooperation Program (of the FAO)
VAHIP     Vietnam Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Project
VWU       Vietnam Women's Union
VRL       Virus Reference Laboratory


        Vice President                        James W. Adams, EAPVP
        Country Director                      Ajay Chhibber, EASVS
        Sector Manager                        Hoonae Kim, EASVS
        Project Team Leader                   Binh Thang Cao, EASVS
        ICR Team Leader                       Leslie Sims, FAO Consultant

                             The Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                 The Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project



                  Implementation Completion and Results Report




                                                     Contents


                                                                                                                             Page no.
Data Sheet                                                                                                                           i-iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 18
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 59

Map

 A. BASIC INFORMATION


                                                                 Avian Influenza
Country                     Vietnam           Project Name       Emergency Recovery
                                                                 Project
                                              Loan and TF
Project ID                  P088362                              IDA-39690, JPN-54219
                                              Numbers
ICR Date                    October 15, 2007  ICR Type           Core ICR
Lending Instrument          ERL               Borrower           Government of Vietnam
Original Total                                Disbursed
                            SDR 3.5 million                      SDR 3.28 million
Commitment                                    Amount
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agency: The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: The Food and Agriculture Organization


 B. KEY DATES

    Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Actual Date
Concept Review       03/19/2004     Effectiveness         11/09/2004       11/09/2004
Appraisal            05/10/2004     Restructuring             -                 -
Approval             08/03/2004     Mid-term Review       06/30/2005
                                    Closing               12/31/2006       06/30/2007


C. RATINGS SUMMARY

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR


Outcomes                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                  Significant
Bank Performance                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)

         Bank                 Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry        Satisfactory         Government             Highly Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision Highly Satisfactory   Implementing Agency    Satisfactory
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Performance             Satisfactory         Performance            Satisfactory




                                            i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators


     Implementation
       Performance               Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating

Potential Problem Project
                              No                Quality at Entry (QEA)      None
at any time?
Problem Project at any                          Quality of Supervision
                              No                                            None
time?                                           (QSA)
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory                  -                     -
Closing/Inactive status


 D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES

                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as percentage of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                            30                36
Animal production                                              30                24
Central government administration                              40                40


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other communicable diseases                                   Primary          Primary
Other rural development                                      Secondary        Secondary
Rural markets                                                Secondary        Secondary


 E. BANK STAFF

        Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President            James W. Adams                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director          Ajay Chhibber                     Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager            Hoonae Kim                        Hoonae Kim
Project Team Leader       Binh Thang Cao                    Laurent Msellati
ICR Team Leader           Leslie Sims                                       -
ICR Primary Author        Leslie Sims                                       -




                                              ii

F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS

Project Development Objectives

The development objectives of the project, in support of the National Action Plan for the Control
of the Avian Influenza Epidemic, were: (a) to strengthen disease surveillance and diagnostic
capacity in the control of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI); (b) to strengthen poultry
sector infrastructure to cope better with serious disease outbreaks; and (c) to safeguard human
health by improving public awareness and information.

Revised Project Development Objectives (PDOs)

No changes were made to the PDOs during project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicators

                                              Original Target        Formally      Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from approval       Revised      at Completion or Target
                                                documents)        Target Values             Years
Indicator 1    Early warning response and turn around for diagnosis within one week of outbreak
               (a) No early warning       (a) 30 Community-                       (a) 30 Community-based
               response                   based surveillance                      surveillance networks
                                          networks operational                    operational
               (b) Turn around for        (b) 75 percent average                  (b) 75 percent average
Value          diagnosis was 10 days monitoring coverage in                       monitoring coverage in
                                          project provinces                       project provinces
               (c) 10 percent             (c) 100 percent                         (c) 100 percent monitoring
               monitoring of Grand-       monitoring of GP                        of GP breeding farms
               Parent (GP) farms          breeding farms

Date achieved August 3, 2004              December 31, 2006                       December 31, 2006
Comments       The targets were achieved. Thirty community-based surveillance networks have been
               established and are operational. The up- and down-stream flows of disease information
               between the central and community level were satisfactorily achieved. The early warning
               system allowed reaction in less that 48 hours and diagnostic within a week.
Indicator 2    Restocking of GP poultry farms
               (a) No GP stock            (a) 15,000 GP stock                     (a) 13,100 GP stock

Value          delivered by the project delivered on time                         delivered
               (b) N/A                    (b) GP stock suitable          -        (b) GP stock suitable for
                                          for local production                    local production
                                          conditions                              conditions
Date achieved August 3, 2004              December 31, 2006                       June 30, 2007
               87 percent of the target was achieved (NB the number of 15,000 GP stock to be imported
               was a broad projection of requirements made at appraisal). The delivery of GP stock was
               strategically delayed to ensure: (a) that imported stock was not affected by the continuing
               avian influenza (AI) outbreaks; and (b) that bio-security measures for the GP farms had
Comments       been up-graded.
               The project demonstrated its flexibility in responding to external changes through: (a)
               reducing the number of breeding stock introduced to match the demand of GP farms; and
               (b) shifting the resulting savings toward enhancing emergency outbreak containment
               activities, as well as strengthening diagnostic capacity during the outbreak period.



                                                      iii

Indicator 3   National Emergency Contingency Plan developed and accepted
                                                                                    National Emergency
Value         National Emergency          Developed and
              Contingency plan did not approved by the Prime              -         Contingency Plan

              exist.                      Minister.                                 approved by the
                                                                                    Prime Minister.
Date achieved August 3, 2004              December 31, 2006                         December 5, 2005
Comments      The target was achieved. The Emergency Contingency Plan was adopted by the
              government in December 2005. The implementation of the Plan contributed significantly
              to the success in controlling AI outbreaks during 2006-2007 and helped to build ownership
              within the government of Vietnam and to strengthen coordination among donors. The Plan
              remains valid today and is considered an example of good practice world-wide.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators


                                          Original Target Values      Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           (from approval        Revised Target       Achieved at

                                                documents)             Values           Completion or
                                                                                        Target Years

Indicator 1     National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (NVDC) and four Regional Veterinary Centers
                (RVCs) up-graded
                                          Central NVDC
                                          laboratory at Hanoi:
                (a) NVDC laboratory       (a) Equipment procured                    (a) Completed by
                not yet up-graded         and delivered within 3                    May 2005
                                          months of project onset
                (b) No staff trained by (b) Staff trained within 6                  (b) Completed by

Value           the project               months of project onset                   September 2005
                                                                          -
                                          Four RVCs Centers:
                (a) No RVCs up-graded (a) Equipment procured                        (a) Completed by
                                          and delivered within 8                    May 2005
                                          months of project onset
                (b) No staff trained by (b) Staff trained within 6                  (b) Completed by
                the project               months of project onset                   September 2005


Date achieved   August 3, 2004            December 31, 2005                         May 30 and
                                                                                    September 30, 2005
                The targets were achieved with highly successful outcomes. The project provided HPAI-
                dedicated diagnostic laboratory equipment, reagents and consumables, and training at the

Comments        NVDC in Hanoi and four RVCs (in Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Can Tho and Vinh) to
                support diagnostic testing and surveillance studies. These resulted in the improved
                standardization of laboratory techniques and communications between laboratories.

Indicator 2     Strategic studies on compensation policy and contingency containment plans completed
                (a) No studies            (a) Study on                              (a) Completed by
                conducted on              Compensation Policy for                   April 2005

Value           Compensation Policy       HPAI carried out
                (b) No national           (b) National Emergency          -         (b) Completed by
                Emergency                 Contingency Plan for                      December 2005
                Contingency Plan          HPAI adopted by
                existed                   Government

Date achieved   August 3, 2004            December 31, 2006                         April & December
                                                                                    2005



                                                    iv

                All the targets were achieved. The study entitled "Compensation and Related Financial
                Support Policy Strategy for Avian Influenza" contributed to the passage of a new
                national directive on compensation (Decision 547/QD-TTg in June 2005 and Decision
Comments        309/QD-TTg in November 2005). The Emergency Contingency Plan was also adopted
                by the government in December 2005. Both significantly contributed to the success in
                controlling AI outbreaks during 2006-2007 and still remain effective.

Indicator 3     Effective community-based reporting system in place
                Community-based          Community-based                             Community-based
Value           reporting system did     reporting system                  -         reporting system
                not exist.               effective in 30 districts                   operational in 30
                                                                                     districts.
Date achieved   August 3, 2004           December 31, 2006                           December 31, 2006
                The target was achieved. The establishment of community-based surveillance networks
                by Agronomes et Vétérinaires sans frontières (AVSF) resulted in improved working
                relations with community animal health workers and other public organizations, such as
                the Vietnam Women's Union (VWU). These interventions were assessed as highly
Comments        successful, and ensured the timely reporting of disease outbreaks. Disease reporting from
                the community level in project provinces has significantly improved and is working quite
                effectively, especially when high poultry mortalities occurred (e.g., during the recent
                outbreaks in Dong Thap Province, the reporting time was within 48 hours).



 G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN IMPLEMENTATION STATUS AND
                                        RESULTS REPORTS


 No.      Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
          Archived                  DO                            IP                    (US$ million)
  1      12/03/2004             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                          0.00
  2      06/21/2005             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                          0.71
  3      05/30/2006             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                          1.97
  4      12/05/2006             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                          2.49


H. RESTRUCTURING


No restructuring of the project took place.




                                                    v

I.  DISBURSEMENT PROFILE




         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 In late December 2003, when HPAI caused by viruses of the H5N1 sub-type was first
officially reported in Vietnam, the country was faced with an unprecedented public and animal
health crisis. By April 2004, the disease had already been reported in 57 of Vietnam's 64
provinces and some 44 million poultry had been destroyed or had died as a result of this disease ­
approximately 17 percent of the total poultry population of 286 million1. This had major effects
on the livelihoods of a large number of poor households in the lowest income quintile, which
derived an average of 7.1 percent of their income from poultry. Losses at the household level
were further compounded by losses associated with the closure of poultry markets and falls in
market prices. Human cases of severe disease were occurring2 and Vietnam faced high
international pressure to mount an effective campaign to contain this disease with the potential to
lead to a human influenza pandemic.

1.1.2 The capacity of the country's veterinary services and disease surveillance systems was
quickly overwhelmed by a flood of AI outbreaks throughout the country. Diagnostic laboratories
were unable to cope with the heavy demand for testing. Lacking the necessary fine-tuned disease
monitoring systems and diagnostic capacity to deal with the outbreak by means of selective,
strategic containment, the government adopted a policy of depopulating large areas in which large
numbers of infected and non-infected poultry were culled.

1.1.3 The government responded decisively to the HPAI epidemic by establishing a multi-
ministerial AI Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development,
comprising representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) and
the Ministries of Health, Finance, Planning and Investment, and others. A National Action Plan
for the Control of HPAI was prepared. At the commune and village levels, Commune AI Control
Committees comprising commune leaders, law and order personnel and animal health workers
supervised the control of animal movement, culling and disposal. As a result of these
extraordinary efforts the HPAI epidemic was temporarily contained by April 2004. Despite this
early success, the threat of recurrence remained high and considerable uncertainty remained
regarding the future direction and development of the disease and the measures needed to control
it effectively.

1.1.4 The World Bank provided assistance to the government from the earliest stage of the
outbreak. At the request of the government, a World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program (FAO-CP)
team was fielded in Vietnam from March 3 to 26, 2004 to assist in reviewing the National Action
Plan for the Control and Eradication of Avian Influenza, and subsequently to prepare the Avian
Influenza Emergency Recovery Project (the project). The Team collaborated closely with a
mission from the Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and prepared a report on the HPAI
epidemic, its consequences and recovery strategies. This joint effort led to the project, the first
operation supported by the Bank to address the threat of AI, and the approach developed has
substantively informed all subsequent activities now under way world-wide.



1    The total cost of culling poultry from infected areas and the disinfection of farms and bird disposal in 2004 was
     estimated to be VND600 billion (US$40 million equivalent).

2    There were 15 human deaths in 2004 and this number had increased to 46 by the end of July 2007.



                                                            1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The PDOs in support of the National Action Plan for the Control of Avian Influenza
Epidemic were: (a) to strengthen disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity in the control of
HPAI; (b) to strengthen poultry sector infrastructure to cope better with serious disease outbreaks;
and (c) to safeguard human health by improving public awareness and information.

1.2.2 The key outcome indicators listed in the Technical Annex for achieving the PDOs were:

(a) Re-stocking without recurrent AI out-breaks;
(b) Early warning response and turn-around of diagnostic results within one week of out-breaks;
(c) Re-stocking of GP poultry farms; and
(d) National Emergency Contingency Plan for HPAI accepted by the government.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

1.3.1 The PDOs and key outcome indicators remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The project was intended to benefit five main groups:

(a) Smallholder poultry farmers, especially the poor, who would benefit from receiving training
and technical assistance on prevention techniques and bio-security measures against AI. These
activities were complimented by a Japan Social Development Trust Fund (JSDF) grant supporting
re-stocking activities for those smallholders who had suffered large losses from the epidemic.

(b) GP poultry breeding farms, which would benefit through the up-grading of bio-security and
additional supplies of AI-free breeding stock.

(c) Veterinary networks, laboratory systems, disease surveillance and extension systems, which
would benefit from strengthening their technical and institutional capacity.

(d) The MARD and participating central and local governments' technical and administrative
bodies, which would benefit from conducting strategic studies, thereby improving their capacity
for disease diagnosis and response to emergency AI outbreaks.

(e) Consumers and other stakeholders who would benefit from being informed and made aware
of the risks to human health, thereby reducing the risk of spill-over infection through better
control and preventive measures of avian influenza in poultry.

1.5 Original Project Components

1.5.1 The project comprised four components and operated primarily in ten project provinces
with expanded support provided to other provinces through the development of national standards
and the stocking of emergency supplies. The costs at appraisal shown below include both
physical and price contingency provisions.




                                                 2

1.5.2 Component A. Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity and
HPAI Virus Research (US$2.76 million, 44.6 percent of the total cost) was designed to
strengthen the epidemio-surveillance network for animal diseases, to expand and up-grade the
existing diagnostic capacity of one central and four regional veterinary diagnostic laboratories,
and to strengthen research on the HPAI virus. A rapid-response field surveillance and reporting
system was established to assist these laboratories in identifying and reporting animal disease
outbreaks. The component comprised five sub-components:

    · Sub-component A.1 Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance was designed to
        support both public and private veterinary services by developing effective operating
        procedures at all levels and training field staff in disease detection and reporting of HPAI.
    · Sub-component A.2 Diagnostic Capacity Up-grading was designed to support the up-
        grading of the diagnostic laboratory capacity of the National Veterinary Diagnostic
        Center (NVDC) in Hanoi and of four Regional Veterinary Centers (RVCs).
    · Sub-component A.3 Strengthening HPAI Virus Research was designed to support
        the establishment of a Virus Reference Laboratory (VRL) at the National Institute of
        Veterinary Research (NIVR) through the provision of technical assistance, laboratory
        equipment, reagents and training, to allow for HPAI detection and virus typing.
    · Sub-component A.4 Strategic Studies was designed to support the preparation of two
        strategic studies: the preparation of a National Contingency Plan for HPAI; and the self-
        evaluation of veterinary services.
    · Sub-component A.5 Emergency Outbreak Containment Plan was designed to
        support the preparation and financing of a rapid mobilization plan to respond to recurring
        AI outbreaks outside the ten provinces of the project areas.

1.5.3 Component B. Poultry Sub-sector Rehabilitation (US$2.13 million, 34.4 percent of the
total cost) was designed to support the rehabilitation of the poultry sub-sector by providing new
GP poultry breeding stocks and up-grading the bio-security of 12 government-owned GP poultry
breeding farms. Strategic studies were also to be conducted to assist poultry sector restructuring.
The component had three sub-components:

    · Sub-component B.1 Provision of New Breeding Stock was designed to provide
        15,000 imported GP poultry and ducks to augment the GP stock of twelve poultry
        breeding farms under MARD3. Day-old chicks were to be supplied from this stock via
        multiplier farms to producers. The procurement of breeding stock was conditional on the
        completion of the satisfactory introduction of bio-security measures on the GP farms.
    · Sub-component B.2 Up-grading the Bio-security of GP Farms was designed to
        reinforce their defenses against infectious disease outbreaks and included the installation
        of quarantine facilities, perimeter security fencing, improved water- and waste-disposal
        systems, personnel disinfection entry units and up-graded laboratory facilities. Following
        the preparation of engineering bio-security and construction designs for all twelve GP
        farms by national consultants, an internationally-recruited specialist was to evaluate the
        planned measures and review and evaluate construction designs.




3   Five farms managed by National Institute of Animal Husbandry (NIAH), one farm managed by the Agricultural
    Research Institute of South Vietnam, and six farms managed by the General Livestock Company.




                                                        3

    · Sub-component B.3 Strategic Studies was designed: (a) to provide guidelines for
         compensation policy and poultry sector restructuring; and (b) to compensate for and to
         prevent poultry losses resulting from future AI outbreaks. The compensation policy
         study was to provide a framework for an equitable national compensation mechanism.
         The poultry sector restructuring study was to provide guidelines to prepare the poultry
         sector to withstand serious disease outbreaks. The poultry losses survey aimed to identify
         the causes of poultry culling in the project provinces, for disease or preventive reasons.

1.5.4 Component C. Public Awareness and Information (US$0.95 million, 15.2 percent of
the total cost) was designed to safeguard human health and safety, in particular that of extension
staff, animal health workers, poultry producers and their families, by improving public awareness
and information. The component was to be implemented in all ten project provinces and had
three sub-components:

    · Sub-component C.1 Capacity Building in Communication and Public Information
         was designed to support the needs assessment of veterinary and livestock extension staff
         at the central, provincial, district, commune and village levels; the preparation of training
         programs and materials; the training of trainers and of poultry farmers in animal health
         and improved husbandry; and the provision of technical assistance by an education
         specialist, an animal health specialist, a journalist and a web development specialist.
    · Sub-component C.2 Developing Pilot Models for Community-Based Rapid
         Communication was designed to support a training course in communications
         methodology for extension and veterinary staff at the provincial level; the training of
         trainers; a needs assessment on communications requirements for poultry producers; the
         preparation and dissemination of information materials; and the provision of
         communications and information equipment for provinces, districts and communes.
    · Sub-component C.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was designed to support
         training in participatory M&E at all administrative levels, a mid-term evaluation
         workshop, the development of an action plan for M&E, and the replication of successful
         models.

1.5.5 Component D. Project Management (US$0.36 million, 5.7 percent of the total cost) was
managed by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) placed within the existing PCU of the IDA-
funded Agricultural Diversification Project. The PCU reported directly to the Agricultural
Project Management Board under MARD, which oversees implementation of all MARD-
associated projects with international finance. The component financed incremental PCU
investment and operating costs (e.g., office rental, travel, equipment and human resource support).

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The original project structure, with its four components and eleven sub-components,
remained unchanged throughout the implementation period.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

1.7.1    The Implementation Period. The project was originally designed to be implemented
over a period of 24 months, but an extension of six months was granted to complete the re-
stocking of the GP farms under Component B after the bio-security of the premises had been
improved. The extension also allowed sustained support until a loan in support of the follow-on




                                                    4

project (the Vietnam Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Project - VAHIP -
that incorporates both animal health and human health activities) became effective.

1.7.2    Reallocation of Funds. During the course of project implementation, outbreaks
occurred in some provinces during 2005 and 2006. The project responded promptly to these new
priorities by allocating additional funds to Component A (increasing its cost from US$2.76
million to US$3.27 million), mainly for emergency outbreak containment and further
strengthening diagnostic capacity. As a result of the lower-than-anticipated demand for breeding
stock for the GP farms during these outbreaks, the funds allocated to Component B were reduced
from US$2.13 million to US$1.62 million.

                            Project Cost by Component (US$ million)

                                 Component                                     Original    Revised
                                                                                Budget     Budget
 Component A. Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic
 capacity and HPAI Virus Research                                                 2.76       3.27
    A.1 Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance                                 1.3        0.74
    A.2 Diagnostic Capacity Up-grading                                            0.79       1.38
    A.3 Strengthening HPAI Virus Research                                         0.39       0.32
    A.4 Strategic Studies                                                         0.15       0.15
    A.5 Emergency Outbreak Containment Plan                                       0.13       0.68
 Component B. Poultry Sector Rehabilitation                                       2.13       1.62
    B.1 Provision of New Breeding Stock                                           1.13       0.62
    B.2 Up-grading of Bio-security of GP Farms                                    0.86       0.86
    B.3 Strategic Studies                                                         0.14       0.14
 Component C. Public Awareness and Information                                    0.95       0.95
    C.1 Capacity Building in Communications and Public Information                0.63       0.61
    C.2 Developing Pilot Models for Community-Based Rapid Communication           0.18       0.32
    C.3 Monitoring and Evaluation                                                 0.14       0.02
 Component D. Project Management                                                  0.36       0.36
 Total                                                                            6.20       6.20
Source: PCU


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1    Overall. The preparation of the project culminated in a satisfactory project design with
an acceptable Quality at Entry. This is particularly commendable when the circumstances of
emergency are taken fully into account.

2.1.2    Project Preparation. Project preparation and processing were completed in the
extremely short period of three months. Preparation commenced in March 2004, at the peak of
the AI outbreak. Extensive consultations were undertaken with the government's technical
departments and agencies and other stakeholders, at both central and local levels, including
poultry smallholders. However, the main constraint was the uncertainty concerning the future
course of the disease and it was unclear in the early stages in which direction disease control and
preventive measures should be taken.




                                                 5

2.1.3 Given the emergency nature of the proposed project, it was agreed that an Emergency
Recovery Loan was the most appropriate instrument to restore assets in the disrupted poultry sub-
sector. Moreover, three key principles were applied during preparation: (a) a simple and flexible
design was essential; (b) the project's activities should be geared to a rapid rate of disbursement;
and (c) a strong focus should be maintained on addressing key implementation issues rather than
broad institutional matters.

2.1.4    Project Design. Vietnam was the first country to prepare and implement a Bank-funded
AI emergency project, and there was no precedent to guide the project design. It is noteworthy
that Vietnam serves as a reference case for many other countries in developing their own
emergency AI control programs; it substantively contributed to the Global Program for Avian
Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI) framework that serves as a
guide to all Bank-supported AI operations.

2.1.5    Government Commitment to the project was extremely strong. A multi-ministerial AI
Steering Committee was established and a National Action Plan for the Control of HPAI was
prepared. The Government fully cooperated with the Bank/FAO missions in the project design
and in developing a medium to long term integrated Operational Program for Avian and Human
Influenza Control.

2.1.6    Assessment of Risks. The country's limited institutional capacity to cope with the
massive HPAI epidemic was recognized during preparation as one of the key risks that could
hamper implementation progress. However, the emergency nature of the project meant that the
project could only focus on those interventions vital for the effective containment of the disease
(e.g., diagnostic and surveillance capacity) rather than addressing a range of institutional
weaknesses that could only be rectified over the long term. Since many existing institutional
deficiencies that might hamper effective project implementation were therefore not addressed, the
project management team faced the dilemma of ensuring rapid implementation of a highly
technical program despite known or anticipated deficiencies in implementation capacity.

2.1.7    Quality at Entry. Despite the rapid preparation process, the project was
comprehensively appraised by the Bank, the FAO and the government. All the required
documentation (e.g., the project implementation plan and the procurement plan) were thoroughly
prepared by the government and were ready at negotiations. The design closely adhered to the
three key principles out-lined above and also allowed sufficient flexibility in implementation that
was necessary given the uncertainty related to the future behavior of the disease and the control
measures that might have to be adjusted.

2.1.8    Another key feature of the project was to acknowledge the need to have a multi-
disciplinary response to the epidemic and to promote collaboration within the technical
departments in MARD, including the Department of Animal Health (DAH), the Department of
Livestock Production (DLP) and the National Agricultural Extension Center (NAEC). The
choice was made early on to designate the Agricultural Management Board as the executing
agency and to have each of the three technical departments assign a senior staff member to the
PCU. However, the challenges of ensuring full cooperation between the participating technical
departments were under-estimated during project preparation.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Overall. The implementation of the project has been satisfactory with the PDOs being
fully achieved. There were some implementation delays resulting from complex scheduling in an


                                                   6

emergency situation that at times overwhelmed the capacity of the PCU, the PPIUs and the
technical implementing agencies. Since the project had to be implemented across a number of
regions and provinces, given the broad incidence of the disease (with key hot spots in the Red
River and Mekong River delta areas), the overall management and the supervision of activities in
the field were generally difficult. Eight out of ten project provinces had no prior experience with
Bank-financed projects. Despite these difficulties and though disbursement rates were slower than
appraisal estimates, disbursements increased rapidly in the last six months (disbursement of the
Credit reached 104 percent of the original budget in US$ terms and 94 percent in SDR terms at
project closure). Compared to other projects in the Vietnam Portfolio, this project performed
better in terms of implementation. The Credit was approved by the Board in August 2004 and it
was fully disbursed by June 2007, a period of less than three years (including the six-month
extension). A detailed description of the project's implementation is provided in Annex 2.

Component A. Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity and HPAI
Virus Research

2.2.2 The overall implementation of Component A (which represented 52.7 percent of the total
budget) was "highly satisfactory", with strong ownership and engagement by the DAH.

2.2.3 Sub-component A.1 Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance achieved its purpose
of enhancing disease surveillance and improving disease reporting. The up- and down-stream
flows of information on diseases between the central and community levels, including the
development of community-based surveillance networks, were satisfactorily achieved.

2.2.4 An international non-governmental organization (NGO), the AVSF, was contracted to
provide services relating to the strengthening of disease surveillance activities. The technical
training provided by the AVSF for commune animal health workers (CAHWs) in the treatment of
infected animals, disease-reporting procedures and early detection of clinical signs was well-
received. A number of specific surveillance activities conducted under the project (including post
vaccination sero-surveillance and surveillance of live-bird markets) and studies on unvaccinated
ducks, supported the increased capacity to undertake surveillance and provided valuable
information required by both central and provincial authorities. These activities and studies also
assisted the government in revising control and preventive strategies. Resources and basic bio-
security equipment facilitated the safe collection of laboratory specimens and the follow-up
reporting on disease incidence.

2.2.5 The community-based surveillance network established by the AVSF was innovative and
successful in timely reporting disease outbreaks within 2 days. It also developed and strengthened
the cooperation mechanisms between CAHWs and the (VWU). The use of the FAO-designed
information system (TADInfo) contributed to effective monthly reporting of animal disease
outbreak data (at least for AI) from provinces to DAH. The disease reporting systems from the
community level in project provinces and the quality of information provided on the DAH web-
site have improved markedly.

2.2.6 Sub-component A.2 Up-grading Laboratory Capacity was highly successful. The
project provided HPAI-dedicated diagnostic laboratory equipment, reagents and consumables, as
well as training at the NVDC in Hanoi and the four RVCs, to support diagnostic testing and
surveillance studies. These activities also resulted in the improved standardization of laboratory
techniques in, and communications between, the various laboratories. The project was only one
of several contributors of laboratory equipment, training and supplies to veterinary laboratories in
Vietnam, but as an early provider played a major role in improving the accurate and timely


                                                   7

diagnosis of disease and in promoting the adoption of standardized testing across the laboratory
system.

2.2.7    Sub-component A.3 Strengthening HPAI Virus Research supported the NIVR to
develop this Center as the National Reference Laboratory for Avian Influenza. Construction of
the VRL was financed by government and monitored by experts from the FAO and the Office
Internationale des Epizooties (OIE) to ensure the use of internationally-acceptable construction
standards. The project provided this Center with equipment for sequencing viral nucleic acids
from influenza virus isolates, necessary to assess the genetic characteristics of AI virus isolates in
Vietnam, a critical process in understanding the evolution of the disease and the causative viruses.
The high-security facility at NIVR has been completed, is fully operational and is in compliance
with international standards.

2.2.8    Sub-component A.4 Strategic Studies was implemented by FAO using its own grant
funds and consultants under "parallel" financing arrangements. The National Emergency
Contingency Plan for HPAI (including an up-date of the National Action Plan for the Control of
AI Epidemics) and a Self-Evaluation of Veterinary Services (following OIE standards) were both
completed. The Contingency Plan was adopted by the government on December 5, 2005 and
significantly contributed to the success in controlling AI outbreaks during 2006-2007.

2.2.9 Sub-component A.5 Emergency Outbreak Containment Plan provided resources for a
rapid and effective response to recurring AI outbreaks. Four project provinces and 20 non-project
provinces received disinfectants, sprayers and protective clothing from the project to support
emergency outbreak containment.

2.2.10 Factors affecting the implementation of Component A: Several positive factors
contributed to the successful outcome of Component A:

(a) The strong engagement of DAH. DAH seconded a senior technical staff member to the PCU
who was appointed as project coordinator and was responsible for the implementation of the
component. This action was the main reason for the successful implementation of Component A.

(b) Technical Assistance from FAO. Sub-components A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.4 were co-financed
by the FAO Technical Cooperation Programme (TCP). The FAO provided strong cooperation
and technical assistance in this effort.

(c) The use of international and local NGOs was been effective in working with smallholders
and local governments. The activities of the VWU, with commune-based beneficiary selection
for re-stocking, were exemplary.

2.2.11 Implementation of Component A also faced some challenges:

(a) Complex technical requirements. There were delays in procurement of the supplies and
equipment for laboratories because it took time to assess the needs and to define technical
specifications. For the VRL, construction standards and clearance by the OIE and FAO were
required before equipment could be supplied (to ensure that equipment and reagents were suitable
for use and that the efficiency and laboratory worker safety within VRL could be guaranteed).

(b) Slow approval process by MARD. To facilitate rapid responses to emergency AI outbreaks,
the simplest of procurement methods were allowed (such as direct contracting and shopping



                                                 8

methods for small contracts valued at less than US$50,000 each). The contract approvals by
MARD still took 1-2 weeks, which was slower than expected.

(c) Other difficulties. The NIVR was slow in following-up on the recommendations made by
the OIE and FAO experts to address deficiencies in the construction of the high security VRL
facility. The main reasons for the delay were the lack of local expertise for specific construction
requirements, and most of the equipment had to be imported because of the absence of locally-
produced equipment.

Component B. Poultry Sub-sector Rehabilitation

2.2.12 Overall, implementation of Component B was "satisfactory", notwithstanding the delays
experienced in the bio-security up-grading of GP farms and, consequently, in the delivery of GP
stock to those farms.

2.2.13 Sub-component B.1 Provision of New Breeding Stock. Before GP stock could be
supplied, each farm had to up-grade its bio-security facilities to protect the investment in breeding
stock and to ensure that it would not become a "reservoir" of disease. Construction and
procurement of equipment for enhanced bio-security took longer than anticipated. The import of
GP breed stock was delayed when MARD (appropriately) imposed a ban on the import of
breeding stock during AI out-breaks in the last year of project implementation. By the time the
project closed, around 13,100 GP day-old chicks had been imported to stock five GP farms.

2.2.14 Sub-component B.2 Up-grading the Bio-security of GP Farms was a precondition
for the supply of GP stock. The project financed (for each farm) a personnel disinfection unit, a
quarantine unit, a clean-water system, disinfectants, sprayers, protective clothing, fencing and
other items to provide an effective disease containment barrier. A detailed review of the bio-
security facilities in all twelve GP farms was completed by an FAO consultant in September 2005,
including a detailed technical "needs assessment", followed by the preparation of construction
designs by national engineering consultants. Because of the time required by MARD's technical
departments to appraise the bio-security up-grading plans, most of the procurement and civil
works were only completed shortly before project closure. Nevertheless, one of the outcomes of
this sub-component was to build capacity within the DLP and private contractors in the field of
bio-security.

2.2.15 Sub-component B.3 Strategic Studies was financed by the FAO TCP and the FAO-CP
using FAO's consultants. Implementation of this sub-component was completed on schedule and
provided appropriate advice to MARD.

(a) The survey on poultry losses resulting from the AI epidemic was conducted by the General
Statistics Office, and a case study report entitled "Impacts of Avian Influenza Outbreaks on
Poverty" submitted in August 2004 helped to inform MARD on how to compensate for the losses.

(b) The study "Compensation and Related Financial Support Policy Strategy for Avian
Influenza" was carried out between December 2004 - April 2005 by a national and an
international consultant, in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture of MARD. The
study resulted in a new national directive on compensation (Decision 547/QD-TTg June 2005 and
Decision 309/QD-TTg November 2005) and is used as an example of good practice world-wide.

(c) The strategic poultry sector restructuring study was implemented in two phases. The DLP
developed a project proposal for poultry sector industrialization. An FAO-funded study


                                                   9

evaluated the impact of new and modified regulations and directives on poultry production and
marketing, and provided information for policy makers on the effects of AI on stakeholders and
on the effects of measures implemented to control AI. A review of legislation and regulations on
poultry marketing was conducted, supported by World Health Organization funding.

2.2.16 MARD released a revised project plan for "Centralisation and industrialisation of poultry
farming, slaughtering and processing for the period 2006-2015" in January 2006. On the basis of
this plan, the DLP asked for advice on the socio-economic and environmental impacts of the
planned project during the preparation of the Integrated National Operational Program for the
Avian and Human Influenza 2006-2010 (the Green Book, OPI). A study entitled "Poultry Sector
Restructuring in Vietnam" was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team consisting of international
and national experts from May to June 2006.

2.2.17 Factors affecting the implementation of Component B were as follows:

(a) Close collaboration with the FAO. The FAO team contributed effectively to implementing
the strategic studies under sub-component B.3.

(b) Recurring HPAI outbreaks. During the entire project period, the HPAI H5N1 virus was
present in the country and outbreaks recurred. As a result, the GP farms and MARD were faced
with an uncertain demand for parent poultry stock. A production ban on breeding ducks and
geese was in place until early 2006, along with MARD's temporary import suspensions of
breeding stock for the GP farms when out-breaks reoccurred.

(c) Coordination challenges between the PCU and MARD's technical departments.
Implementation involved many stakeholders with varying levels of technical knowledge which
made coordination difficult for the PCU. The DLP had not established clear guidelines and
regulations for bio-security standards and the absence of such guidelines caused slow appraisal
and approval of the up-grading plans for the GP farms by MARD.

(d) Seasonal demand for GP stock. As a result of the delays in completing the bio-security up-
grading of GP farms, the only "time window" for GP stock supply was in late-June, 2007.

(e) Privatizations of GP farms. The privatization of State Owned Enterprises in progress at the
time of project completion involved six of the twelve GP farms. These were not considered
eligible to receive funds from the project.

2.2.18 The parallel JSDF Grant for Smallholder Farms Restocking (of US$1.8 million) was
implemented in the project provinces to support smallholder farms in recovering from AI and in
maintaining vigilance against further outbreaks. The JSDF grant complemented the project at the
commune and village levels, especially in stakeholder training and the development of a
community-based early warning network. Over 8,000 beneficiaries in 30 districts across ten
provinces participated in the improved biosecurity restocking program with over 1.2 million
chickens. The average mortality rate of 7.7 percent, six times lower than the base-line mortality of
free-ranging backyard poultry, indicated that confinement, linked with vaccination, improved
feeding and husbandry practices, could indeed improve efficiency.

Component C: Public Awareness and Information




                                                10

2.2.19 The overall implementation of Component C was "satisfactory", despite a slight delay
resulting from the over-extended capacity at the NAEC while it was responding to various
demands from the government and other donors' programs.

2.2.20 Sub-component C.1 Capacity Building in Communication and Public Information
provided a training needs assessment of veterinary and livestock extension staff at the central,
provincial, district, commune and village levels; the recruitment of additional extension workers;
the provision of additional equipment; and the training of extension staff (training of trainers).
Implementation faced initial delays because of the difficulty in coordination between the NAEC,
the PCU and DAH. The training needs assessment for extension workers and farmers completed
in March 2006 was a key output.

2.2.21 The assessment showed that extension and animal health staff had a reasonable
knowledge of AI and appropriate control measures but that there were gaps between knowledge
and action. Most of the messages delivered had been generic and focused mainly on public
health aspects rather than on disease prevention in poultry. This problem arose in part because it
was assumed that the main thrust for the control of AI related to the reporting of disease and
emergency responses rather than to measures to prevent AI. When this was recognized during
implementation, materials covering information on the correct method of poultry vaccination and
ways to enhance farm bio-security were produced and distributed to farmers and animal health
workers.

2.2.22 Sub-component C.2 Developing Pilot Models for Community-based Rapid
Communication. The project conducted information campaigns in 1,700 communes with the
participation of 51,000 local villagers. In addition, the project also printed and disseminated
330,000 leaflets, a manual (2,000 copies), 4,600 posters, three videos, and 860 minutes of radio
broadcasting in ten project provinces.

2.2.23 Sub-component C.3 Monitoring and Evaluation was designed to support the
development of an action plan for M&E for the communication activities under Component C, to
provide training in participatory M&E and to replicate successful models. The implementation of
the sub-component was "marginally satisfactory". A consultant review of M&E was conducted
from October 2006 to January 2007.

2.2.24 Factors affecting implementation of Component C were as follows:

(a) Using the provincial extension system. The project used the existing networks of extension
at local levels that were strong and readily available.

(b) Involvement of the VWU. The project cooperated with the VWU at local levels to organize
training and smallholder poultry groups. This was the key initiative leading to success of the
public awareness and information campaigns sub-component.

(c) Coordination of the NAEC with the PCU and the DAH. The NAEC was responsible for
preparing the integrated training plan for the whole project but its coordination with the DAH and
PCU needed to be strengthened.

(d) Emergency nature of the project. It was difficult to establish a comprehensive M&E system
for an emergency project with a short implementation period.




                                                 11

2.2.25 Component D. Project Management overall was "satisfactory". There were some
start-up difficulties but improvement was achieved over time. Certain project activities
(especially some under Component A, supported by full-time dedicated staff) were extremely
successful, reflecting the commitment of the staff involved and the related technical department
in providing the appropriate resources. Procurement and financial management including audits
were also satisfactory at both the central and the provincial levels. However, the project
sometimes still faced slow approvals by MARD.

2.2.26 Factors affecting effective management were as follows:

(a) The government's low pay scales. Attracting and retaining high-quality staff at the PCU
while working under high-pressure emergency conditions was difficult and challenging. There
were frequent changes of component coordinators of three out of four components during the
project implementation. Among other factors, low salary levels caused a high turn-over of staff.

(b) Coordination between the PCU and MARD technical departments. Project implementation
required strong coordination between the PCU and MARD technical departments. While the
coordination with the DAH was generally very good, coordination with the DLP and the NAEC
was generally less effective. One of the reasons was the capacity and lack of empowerment of
the PCU staff in charge of these components.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design. During project preparation, an M&E system was designed with clearly-defined
monitoring indicators being presented in the log-frame of the Technical Annex. Adequate
indicators were identified to measure progress towards the achievement of the PDOs using
effective collection methods. The project allocated adequate funds to develop and make
operational a basic M&E system, to be managed by the PCU. The design was adequate for the
M&E of an emergency project, although implementation of it was more challenging.

2.3.2 Implementation. Implementation of M&E under the project faced difficulties, mainly
because the pressure to implement urgent project activities of an emergency nature crowded out
the PCU's capacity to develop and maintain a functioning M&E system to measure results and
impacts. The PCU, with its priority set on rapid physical implementation, focused mainly on
monitoring of physical outputs using data and information collected by its technical staff and the
PPIUs.

2.3.3 Eight months before the project closed, an international and a national consultant reviewed
the project M&E between October 2006 and January 2007. This effort came too late for the
project, and instead focused on providing guidance for the development of M&E systems for the
follow-up project, VAHIP.

2.3.4 In accordance with project design, the NAEC was responsible for monitoring the
indicators (especially for Component C) but because of limited staff it could not implement the
integral monitoring system as planned. As a result, the project relied on regular IDA supervision
for quality control. The combination of IDA supervision mission reports (which high-lighted
implementation quality and made recommendations) and the PCU M&E on the physical progress
were sufficient in the context of an emergency operation.

2.3.5   Utilization. The data collected were collated and presented in semi-annual progress
reports to MARD and IDA that assessed the progress of project activities against annual work


                                                 12

plans and targets but did not include specific reference to the M&E monitoring indicators
developed. The PCU did not conduct regular impact evaluations of project activities, again
mainly because of time pressure.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Project implementation was fully in compliance with the Bank's safeguards and fiduciary
requirements. Close supervision and monitoring of safeguards and fiduciary compliance were
maintained by the government and the IDA throughout the project.

2.4.2    Environmental and social safeguards: The project's environmental and social issues
related to two main activities:

(a) Building capacity for the collection and testing of Avian Influenza virus. The project's
investments in facilities, equipment and training for four RVCs and two national laboratories
have helped improve the effectiveness and safety over existing avian influenza virus handling and
testing procedures by meeting international standards established by the OIE. The project also
provided equipment for the VRL to identify HPAI and its strains in Vietnam.

(i) Construction phase. The expansion of laboratory space was minor and was accommodated
within the existing developed areas of the research institutes. The sites were already built-out and
there was neither issue of habitat conversion nor land acquisition.

(ii) Operation phase. The project had a positive impact on laboratory staff safety by providing
safe facilities for existing AI research and monitoring activities and building capacity for their
use. The project's investments allowed the adoption and use of OIE bio-safety standards for the
handling, testing and disposal of samples used for AI research. The project also built capacity in
the handling and transport of samples and in safeguarding laboratory workers from infection, with
investments in staff training to improve safety at all levels and to up-grade laboratory facilities.

(b) Developing Strategy. The project assisted the MARD to develop a strategy for managing
future AI outbreaks. The project contributed to improving its environmental and social
sustainability in two areas: (a) mainstreaming environmental safeguards into protocols and
procedures for the culling and disposal of animals during an outbreak, in particular by adopting
OIE standards in these areas; and (b) development of the government's policy on compensation
for poultry farmers affected by future outbreaks.

2.4.3    Fiduciary safeguards: Financial management (including audits) and procurement were
satisfactory during the implementation period, despite some lags in payment clearances and
disbursements.

2.4.4    Anti-collusion efforts: No cases of collusion were found.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 AI has been temporarily contained in Vietnam as the result of several inputs incorporated
in the implementation of the project. These efforts represent the first phase of the long-term
support required to achieve the sustainable control and prevention of AI, as was high-lighted in
the Integrated National Operational Program for the Avian and Human Influenza 2006-2010 ("the




                                                 13

Green Book, OPI). A second influenza project, the VAHIP4, has been developed to follow up on
the project, taking lessons learned from the project and fully incorporating activities relating to
the protection of human health and pandemic preparedness activities. A Credit in support of this
three-year project became effective in August 2007.

2.5.2 Institutional Capacity. The same PCU that managed the implementation of the project is
managing the VAHIP, and as a result the expertise gained in the implementation of the project is
retained and consolidated. Seven of the ten provinces under the project have been included in the
VAHIP, and the experience gained from the project is being utilized in the restructured PPMUs in
these provinces. The enhanced capacity within the DAH and provincial Sub-departments of
Animal Health will therefore improve the management of VAHIP.

3 Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The project objectives remained valid and unchanged throughout the project
implementation. A slight shift of emphasis was made, away from the focus on surveillance and
towards the longer-term control and prevention of AI, as the disease was brought under control.
The PDOs were also consistent with Vietnam's plans for the medium- to long-term control of
avian and human influenza, as outlined in the Integrated National Operational Program for the
Avian and Human Influenza 2006-2010 (OPI, the Green Book), and are fully consistent with the
approach envisaged under the GPAI, which was in large part designed after the Vietnam success
in combating AI and, in particular, after the successes of the project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project achieved all of its development objectives.

3.2.2 The disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity in the control of HPAI was strengthened,
as indicated by:

     (a) the establishment and operation of the early warning response system in 30 districts of 10
          project provinces (the community-based surveillance networks);
     (b) the up-grading of the diagnostic laboratories and provision of training at the NVDC in
          Hanoi and the four RVCs, which allowed a "turn around" for diagnosis within one week
          of an outbreak; and
     (c) the adoption of the Emergency Contingency Plan for outbreak containment. by the
          government in December 2005.




4The VAHIP is co-financed by the government of Vietnam, the Avian and Human Influenza (AHI) Facility Trust Fund,
a Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Grant and the IDA Credit, with a total project cost of
around US$38.0 million. The project is implemented by MARD and the Ministry of Health (MOH) in eleven high-
priority provinces for a four-year period from 2007 to 2010. The project's objective is to increase the effectiveness of
government services in reducing the health risk to poultry and humans from AI and to contribute to addressing HPAI at
the national level by controlling the disease at source in domestic poultry, by early detection and response to poultry
and human cases, and by preparing for the medical consequences of a human influenza pandemic.




                                                            14

3.2.3 Poultry sector infrastructure was strengthened to cope better with serious disease outbreaks
as evidenced by:

    (a) the up-grading of the bio-security measures for all twelve GP farms;
    (b) the provision of additional good quality breeding stock to five of the twelve GP farms;
    (c) the study entitled "Compensation and Related Financial Support Policy Strategy for
         Avian Influenza" which led to the passage of a new national directive on compensation
         (Decision 547/QD-TTg in June 2005 and Decision 309/QD-TTg in November 2005); and
    (d) the success of the smallholder restocking program under the JSDF Grant (in parallel with
         the project) that assisted more than 8,000 smallholders in the up-grading of bio-security
         measures for their backyard poultry.

3.2.4 Human health was better safeguarded through public awareness and information as
evidenced by:

    (a) the implementation of community public awareness and information campaigns in 1,700
         communes with the participation of 51,000 local villagers in ten project provinces; and
    (b) the capacity building in communication and public information for veterinary and
         livestock extension staff at the central, provincial, district, commune and village levels
         (i.e., training, recruitment of additional extension workers; provision of additional
         equipment).

3.2.5 Overall, Vietnam is viewed internationally as a success case in the battle against avian
influenza and this project has partially contributed towards achieving the results.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 There is a broad agreement in the global community that containing HPAI at source
reduces the risk of a human pandemic and would help to mitigate the socio-economic impacts
should such pandemic occur. The HPAI control measures implemented in Vietnam as an integral
part of this project addressed some of the global "public good" dimensions of this issue. The
project also helped to reduce human HPAI infections; in 2005, 61 cases were reported compared
to only three cases in the first half of 2007.

3.3.2 The economic analysis in Annex 3 is confined to the direct project impacts in the poultry
sector alone as the values of human lives saved are unquantifiable. The analysis, which includes
the entire cost of the project, shows a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$1.2 million at a 12 percent
discount rate for the project time span from 2004 to 2007. The NPV of the increased control
measures of HPAI undertaken by the project resulted in the prevention of losses of over US$58
million in the poultry sector alone. In addition to the direct benefits of preventing losses in the
poultry sector from HPAI outbreaks, significant indirect benefits resulted in spin-offs from
strengthened veterinary services. The control of several other animal diseases has been equally
enhanced, leading to increased support by veterinary services to improved productivity of the
livestock sector. All these were achieved by the utilization of funds from several sources. In
addition to the project funds, counterpart funds supplied by the government, international
agencies and bilateral donors totaled about US$127.5 million.

3.3.3 The project initiated increased HPAI control at a very early stage of the epidemic; this
was crucial in preventing even more severe socio-economic impacts, given its share of
investments in HPAI control. All of these improvements are likely to equip Vietnam to address
future AI outbreaks as well as other emerging zoonoses.


                                                   15

3.3.4 Furthermore, it is likely that certain project elements (such as those in Component B
dealing with poultry sector restructuring) had a greater influence than others on the level of
infection and disease, and that they are more likely to have longer-term benefits that are not
reflected in this analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The overall project outcome is considered to be "satisfactory". The project objectives
were, and continue to be, relevant to the country's AI control priorities. All technical objectives
were achieved in an efficient manner and most of the target values for the PDO indicators were
met. In particular, the project contributed to Vietnam's successful fight against AI and helped to
confirm its commitment to its international partners. The project directly contributed to the
controlling of the disease in 30 districts in ten provinces and directly benefited over 8,000 farmers
through smallholder restocking activities. Last but not least, the project strengthened the
country's diagnostic capability with flexible designs to respond to changing priorities (such as
vaccination) as they emerged.

3.4.2 Contributing to policy development. The project was prepared and launched rapidly,
which set the stage for many that followed in response to AI outbreaks in other countries. The
project, with a relatively small SDR 3.5 million IDA Credit, had a significant impact on
supporting policy development and was the vehicle for the Bank to provide technical assistance to
the government. The Bank assisted the government in preparing its Integrated National Plan
presented at the International Pledging Conference for Avian and Human Influenza in Beijing in
January 2006. This Integrated National Plan remains a model for other countries addressing the
threat of AI.

3.4.3   The Bank led a multi-donor mission5 to assist the government in preparing the Integrated
Operational Program for Avian and Human Influenza (the Green Book), and co-chaired the multi-
donor conference in Hanoi that raised US$65 million for animal and human influenza control. As
a key partner, the Bank also plays a significant part in the Partnership for Avian and Human
Influenza Control, set up in 2006 to coordinate donor support for Vietnam's health and
agriculture sectors.

3.4.4 Replicability. The project helped set the foundation for a follow-up operation, VAHIP,
which is a shift from emergency response to supporting medium- to long-term integrated disease
control and prevention programs for both poultry industry and human populations. The VAHIP
is being implemented by MARD and MOH. A key outcome was the enhanced government
ownership and the strengthening of coordination mechanisms and collaborative working




5   A Joint Assessment Mission coordinated by the Bank took place from April 17-28, 2006 and comprised animal
    and human health experts from related government, ministries and representatives from international organizations,
    multilateral banks and donor agencies, including the Asian Development Bank, the AFD, the Danish International
    Development Agency, the European Commission, the FAO, New Zealand Aid, the United Nations Development
    Program, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United States Agency for International Development and the
    World Health Organization.




                                                         16

arrangements between the human and animal health sectors, critical to the success of an
integrated AI control and prevention program in the long term.

3.4.5 Sustainability. The project, mainly through its JSDF funding, was able to engage with
representatives of civil society, including an international non-governmental organization - AVSF
- and mass organizations (the VWU), establishing community-based epidemio-surveillance
networks which are a key to a sustainable approach to animal disease identification and control.
Last but not least, the project was in many ways a pilot which helped design the GPAI, under
which all animal health components in subsequent Bank-financed projects are now processed.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Poverty reduction impact. Although not specifically included in the performance
indicators, the project has generated positive social impacts by reducing losses in poultry on
which the poor population tends to rely on as source of protein and income.

3.5.2 Gender aspects. A significant number of smallholder and village poultry are reared by
women, which represents one of the main sources of supplementary income for women and
children in poor households. The activities implemented under the project helped reduce losses
to this vulnerable group as the poorest quintile of population in Vietnam relies much heavier on
poultry as a source of income than do other sectors of the community.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.3 The project significantly strengthened the capacity of relevant government agencies
involved. For example, the NAEC gained valuable experience in managing mass communication
campaigns; the DAH strengthened its disease information, surveillance and diagnostic systems;
and the DLP gained considerable insight into issues relating to the restructuring of the poultry
sub-sector and in bio-security issues, including a greater awareness of the social and economic
effects of various control measures. Provincial and district veterinary services have improved
their linkages with CAHWs and NGOs (such as the VWU).

3.5.4 The project also strengthened the project management capacity of the PCU and the overall
capacity of the government to address, in an integrated and multi-sectoral manner, animal disease
emergencies. This capacity will be further strengthened under the VAHIP.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5 The project outcomes extended beyond the stated PDOs, benefiting other areas such as the
development of long-term planning for the control of AI in Vietnam; collaboration among
donors; the strengthening of standards and regulations; and the strengthening of public-private
partnerships by having government agencies working closely with NGOs and the public. In
particular, the project contributed to the future planning and funding of activities for the control
of HPAI beyond emergency response. A mass vaccination campaign was initiated under the
project in 2005 and continued in subsequent years.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops




                                                  17

3.6.1 There was no beneficiary survey done for the project as part of the ICR preparation. A
survey was carried out for the JSDF co-financed restocking grant, the outcome of which is
described in the JSDF Grant project evaluation.

4 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

4.1 The risk to the development outcome is considered to be "significant". First, surveillance
studies conducted under the project demonstrated that the HPAI virus continues to circulate in un-
vaccinated ducks and Muscovy ducks in parts of the country, and has also been detected in live
poultry markets. These findings indicate that the risk of AI outbreaks remains high, especially if
control measures such as vaccination are relaxed and further measures aimed at reducing the risk
of infection are not introduced. Second, with considerable up-grading of national and regional
laboratory capability and capacity, the consolidation and strengthening of quality management
procedures in laboratory testing and in field surveillance data collection and analysis are required.
Third, commune-based disease surveillance carried out by CAHWs and the training of these
workers need to be made sustainable by continuation and better monitoring for input and outcome
quality and appropriateness. These risks were well recognized by the government and are being
addressed in the VAHIP.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The Quality at Entry of the project is considered to have been "satisfactory", based on:

(i) The standard of the project preparation documents by the government was very high with
support by the Bank team.

(ii) Flexible project design. The project had a simple design with (a) straightforward
implementation arrangements including emergency outbreak containment plans to release funds
quickly in the event of outbreaks; and (b) simple procurement and disbursement methods that
allow procurement to be conducted in the shortest possible time whilst ensuring a reasonable
degree of competition and transparency.

(iii) Linking the HPAI control strategy to the broader policy development. Although emergency
in nature, the project supported several strategic studies that resulted in new regulations including
the decision on the compensation framework to provide financial support to affected population.
This is seen as an important element in obtaining cooperation from affected stakeholders and to
ensure the efficacy of the early warning and reporting system.

(iv) Replicability. The project served and continues to serve as an example for replication in
other countries addressing the threat of AI.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory



                                                 18

5.1.2 The quality of supervision is considered to have been "highly satisfactory". Intensive and
frequent field supervision by the Bank team, with regular participation by FAO, provided
considerable support to the project. A core team including expertise from FAO on Animal Health,
Veterinary Epidemiology, Poultry Vaccination and Poultry Production provided significant
support to MARD on technical issues in AI control. The supervision missions also helped to
identify new opportunities for the project (for example, with respect to the vaccination program)
and advised the government on moving towards a longer-term approach that is proving to be
successful.

5.1.3 Frequent IDA supervision also provided opportunities for donor coordination. Donor
meetings were organized at the end of each supervision mission to brief agencies on the progress
of the project, to present the main findings and recommendations of the mission, and to receive an
up-date on project HPAI-related activities by other agencies. Attendance was generally high and
included representatives from embassies, NGOs and donor agencies. Aide-memoires of the
missions were also widely shared with the donor community.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4 The overall rating for Bank performance is considered to have been "satisfactory".

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.2.1 The government's performance in supporting project implementation in general was
"highly satisfactory". The government was committed to decisive and sustained control of HPAI,
maintained the degree of transparency in reporting human cases and outbreaks in poultry, and
took timely measures to improve implementation performance. Many meetings, held in presence
of representatives of the Donor Community, were chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and
attended by the Ministers of Health and of Agriculture and Rural Development.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.2   The implementing agency, the MARD, was prompt with required follow-up actions.
MARD has been leading the dialogue with the donor community in Vietnam and has
demonstrated its ability to manage a very large disease control program including a nation-wide
vaccination campaign. There were only minor shortcomings in its performance, such as slow
approvals for procurement and a slow rate of disbursement in the first half of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                 19

5.2.3 The Overall Borrower Performance is considered to have been "satisfactory". The
strongest performance of the Borrower was reflected by the pro-active and dynamic approach in
containing new outbreaks, carrying out mass vaccination programs, and preparing a follow-up
project (VAHIP) in four months to sustain the gains and momentum achieved under the project.
The concerned ministries, central agencies and implementing agencies cooperated closely with
the Bank during project implementation and supervision. Most of the actions agreed upon during
supervision missions, or recommended in audit and procurement ex post review reports, were
followed up in a satisfactory manner. The project was completed after three years of
implementation and the Credit was fully disbursed.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.1 Lessons learned from the project were discussed at a workshop held to scale-up successful
activities under the VAHIP. Some of the key lessons are:

(a) Decentralization: Approval of procurement at the central level was often slow and caused
implementation delays. Decentralization of approving authority would give the provinces more
flexibility to tailor and implement their respective activities. This is especially important for
emergency operations.

(b) PCU capacity: the PCU needs to be sufficiently staffed and resourced from the beginning of
project implementation to allow it to address implementation activities and issues in future
projects.

(c) Quality assurance. Gains made under the project in equipping laboratories and in human
resource capacity-building need to be complemented by improvement in the quality management
of laboratory testing and field surveillance, data collection and analysis. This would ensure that
diagnostic and surveillance results can be trusted to provide necessary information to decision
makers. Commune-based disease surveillance and training provided at commune level require
better monitoring to ensure the quality and appropriateness of the training contents

(d) Communication linkages. The vertical structure of the government (from central, province
then to district levels) discourages lateral interactions. Although the regulatory aspects of disease
reporting are generally in place, enforcement and incentives for reporting from commune to
province was a major challenge under the project. An incentive system to trigger adequate and
accurate reporting must be found. For example, in some provinces, bonuses were paid to those
promptly reporting unusual levels of poultry deaths or poultry hidden from vaccination.

6.1.2 More broadly, the main lessons arising from Vietnam's experience in implementing this
emergency project are:

(a) Speed and transparency are key factors of success. When dealing with an emergency,
early and transparent reporting are essential to contain the disease. Similarly, prompt response is
also a key factor for success.

(b) A two-pronged strategy is to be implemented. This should include: (i) the control of AI at
the source in high-risk regions (through aggressive measures including culling, movement control
and vaccination campaigns for poultry and ducks); and (ii) simultaneous short- and medium-term
measures to minimize the risks to humans and to prepare for an eventual pandemic.




                                                   20

(c) High-level government commitment is essential. For implementation arrangements, it is
important to have a coordination structure which is empowered with multi-sectoral
responsibilities and to have full-time project coordinators to implement activities in a crisis.
Moreover, such a level of coordination would foster an effective integrated national response
(including all technical ministries in charge of agriculture/animal health and human health, as
well as other relevant sectors and agencies, at the national and sub-national level) in case of a
human epidemic.

(d) Donor coordination to support the government program is critical. At the beginning of
the HPAI epidemic the lack of clear mechanisms between donors made it difficult to coordinate
activities. This situation was improved significantly after the government took the central role in
managing the crisis and encouraged the donor community to work together more effectively.

(e) Flexibility is needed in responding to the evolving epidemiological situation of HPAI at
the national, regional and global level. As the HPAI epidemic continued at the same time as
control and prevention measures were being developed, Vietnam had constantly to adjust its
program without losing the opportunity to develop its medium- to long-term response capacity.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1.1 A summary of the Borrower's Completion Report is included in Annex 7. Overall, the
Borrower agreed with the ICR's findings and ratings. More specifically, the Borrower concluded
that the project's results have helped Vietnam strengthen its capacity for HPAI diagnosis and
surveillance, strengthen the poultry sector's infrastructure to cope better with serious disease
outbreaks, better plan for restructuring of the poultry production sector; and better safeguard
human health by improving public awareness and information. The project obtained all of its
intended development objectives.

7.1.2 The project successfully contributed to the control of AI outbreaks in the past years,
reduced losses for the poultry sector and risks for public health, and improved the livehood for
smallholder farmers who derive their significant income from poultry production. The project
also strengthened the capacity of the government's administrative systems and contributed to
better understanding of AI control measures (including mass vaccination campaigns which were
very successful in prevention of AI).

(b) Co-financiers

7.1.3 Overall, the FAO highly appreciated the project outcomes and considered it a model for
other Bank-supported AI projects to follow. Throughout the development and implementation of
the project there was close collaboration between the Bank office in Vietnam and the FAO HPAI
control program. The FAO highly valued the strong working relations between FAO, as a lead
technical agency on AI, and the Bank that were established during project implementation. This
was undoubtedly beneficial to Vietnam's national program since it created synergy and
consistency and minimized the duplication of effort. It also allowed the relatively scarce
international technical expertise to be leveraged across the two programs. The experience of
collaboration gained during this project has carried through to the formulation of the follow-on
VAHIP project. The project had a number of pioneering elements: it promoted cross-
departmental collaboration within MARD; it was an early entrant into the field on compensation



                                                 21

policy; it implemented a restocking project (with JSDF financing); and it engaged in dialogue
with the government on restructuring.

7.1.4 FAO's assessments were consistent with the ICR's findings that the project has provided
Vietnam with enhanced laboratory capacity, enhanced disease reporting capacity, improved bio-
security in GP farms run by the government, a greater understanding of the complex issues
relating to structural change and restructuring, and a better understanding of the communication
needs relating to AI for farmers. These achievements have been enhanced by the other flow-on
effects, including enhanced collaboration between the Bank and the FAO, the production of the
Vietnam Integrated Strategy for Control and Prevention of Avian Influenza and the use of the
Vietnam model for development of other similar projects in other countries.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

7.1.5 There were no other partners or stakeholders in the project.




                                                 22

ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component


           Components              Appraisal Estimate      Actual            Percentage of
                                      (US$ million)      (US$ million)         Appraisal
Strengthening Animal Disease
Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity,          2.60                3.27             126
and HPAI Virus Research
Poultry Sub-sector Rehabilitation           2.00                1.62              81
Public Awareness And Information            0.90                0.95             106
Project Management                          0.40                0.36              90


Total Baseline Cost                         5.90                6.20             105

Physical Contingencies                      0.13                  -                -

Price Contingencies                         0.17                   -              -

Total Project Costs                         6.20                6.20             100
Front-end fee PPF                            -                   -                -
Front-end fee IBRD                           -                   -                -
Total Financing Required                    6.20                6.20             100




(b) Financing

                                        Type of      Appraisal       Actual    Percentage of
           Source of Funds            Co-financing   Estimate                    Appraisal
                                                    (US$ million) (US$ million)
Borrower                                               0.65           0.65          100

UN Food and Agriculture Organization     Parallel
                                        financing      0.55           0.55          100

International Development Association                  5.00           5.00          110




                                              23

ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

    Project Outputs                        Output Indicators                     Actual Achievements
Component A. Strengthening Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity, and HPAI Virus Research
1. Strengthening Animal  1.1. Establishment of early warning disease response
Disease Surveillance     system:
                         (a) 30 Community-based surveillance networks are      Completed by Dec. 2006
                         operational
                         (b) 75 percent average monitoring coverage in         Completed by Dec. 2006
                         project provinces
                         (c) 100 percent monitoring of GP breeding farms       Completed by Dec. 2006

                         1.2. Rapid implementation of surveillance and
                         reporting system in project provinces:
                         (a) Rapid response time to disease outbreaks          Completed by Dec. 2006
                         (b) Effective implementation of NAP guidelines.       Completed by Dec. 2006

2. Diagnostic Capacity   2.1. Central NVDC laboratory at Hanoi upgraded:
Upgrading                (a) Equipment procured and delivered within 3         Completed by May 2005
                         months of project onset
                         (b) Staff trained within 6 months of project onset    Completed by Sep. 2005

                         2.2. Four RVCs up-graded:
                         (a) Equipment procured and delivered within 8
                         months of project onset                               Completed by May 2005
                         (b) Staff trained within 6 months of project onset.
                                                                               Completed by Sep 2005

3. Strengthening HPAI    3.1. Virus Reference Laboratory at NIVR
Virus Laboratory         established:
                         (a) Equipment procured                                Completed by April 2006
                         (b) Staff trained                                     Completed by Sep. 2006
                         (c) Research program defined                          Completed by Dec. 2006
                         (d) Acceptable biosecurity measures in place.         Completed by April 2006

4. Strategic Studies     4.1. Strategic Studies Completed
                         (a) National Emergency Contingency Plan for HPAI      Completed by Dec. 2005
                         is adopted by the government
                         (b) Self-evaluation of Veterinary Services is         Completed by Dec. 2005
                         completed

5. Emergency Outbreak    5.1. Containment Plan formulated and supplies
Containment Plan         procured:
                         (a) Plan completed                                    Completed.
                         (b) Emergency supplies procured                       Completed.
Component B. Poultry Sub-sector Rehabilitation
6. Breeding Stock Supply 6.1. GP stock imported and successfully
                         disseminated
                         (a) 15,000 GP stock delivered on time                 13,100 GP stock delivered
                                                                               before Dec. 2006
                         (b) GP stock suitable for local production conditions Completed.

7. GP Farm Biosecurity   7.1. Biosecurity on 12 GP breeding farms
                         strengthened



                                                  24

                         (a) Biosecurity equipment and infrastructure in place Completed by May 2006
                         within 10 months of project onset
                         (b) Biosecurity models for small operators available. Completed.

8. Strategic Studies     8.1. Strategic Studies Completed
                         (a) Study on Compensation Policy for HPAI is          Completed by April 2005
                         completed
                         (b) Study on Poultry Sector Restructuring is          Completed by June 2006
                         completed.

Component C. Public Awareness and Information
9. Capacity Building in  9.1. Training of trainers by NAEC effective           Completed.
Communication and
Public Information       9.2. Extension staff trained                          Completed.

                         9.3. Publication materials and multi-media messages   Completed.
                         prepared

10 Developing pilot      10.1 Community-based reporting system effective       Completed
models for Community-
based rapid
communication
11. Monitoring and       11.1. Monitoring and Evaluation in place              Incomplete.
Evaluation
Component D. Project Management
12. PCU appointed and    12.1. Administrative linkages established between     Completed.
effective                PCU and implementation agencies/entities.

                         12.2. PCU staff training completed                    Completed.




                                                  25

Component A. Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity, and HPAI
Virus Research

2.1 The key outputs of this component were:

(a) Establishing animal disease surveillance network and training. An international NGO
(AVSF) was contracted to provide services related to the strengthening of surveillance activities
by CAHWs at the commune level. The AVSF provided technical training material, assisted in
organization of meetings between district veterinary offices and CAHWs, and the training of
district staff (i.e., training of trainers). The training materials produced have proven popular with
provincial animal health staff, and resulted in a reprint of training materials on epidemiology and
disease investigations. More detail on the training is presented below.

         · Training organized by AVSF provided two "training of trainers" courses for forty
              staff of the Sub-department of Animal Health (SDAH) and the District Veterinary
              Stations (DVSs). The AVSF organized 60 training courses for 900 para-vets and
              CAHWs I in 30 districts of ten project provinces.

         · Training in Epidemiology: Four one-week training courses in epidemiology,
              including surveillance and risk analysis, were provided by international consultants
              for 100 staff of the SDAHs of all project provinces and the RVCs, in close
              cooperation with the DAH. The training courses aimed at a practice-oriented
              approach and have been highly appreciated by all participants.

         · Field training in Reporting and Investigation: Eleven two-day courses of disease
              surveillance for 256 district veterinary staff were delivered by DAH in five regions
              (Hanoi, Hue, Danang, HCMC and Can Tho). The objective of the training course
              was to build the capacity of the district field staff to carry out disease outbreak
              investigation, recognize the disease and collect disease history information.

(b) Conducting surveillance activities. A number of specific surveillance activities was
conducted, including studies on non-vaccinated ducks and on live-poultry market surveillance.
These activities demonstrated the improvements made in capacity building to undertake such
surveillance testing and provided valuable disease intelligence required by both central and
provincial authorities which assisted in revising control strategies by decision-makers. More
detail on surveillance is presented below.

         · Sero and viro-surveillance: 33,706 serology samples and 11,728 virus samples were
              tested in 19 high-risk provinces. Samples were taken from un-vaccinated water fowl
              flocks and from poultry in slaughter houses and live bird markets.

         · Testing of un-vaccinated `sentinel' populations was carried out, especially of un-
              vaccinated ducks and checks were made for virus circulation, with a focus on large
              live poultry markets.

         · A sero-surveillance pilot was carried out to assess the prevalence of HPAI virus anti-
              body in four provinces which were heavily affected by the 2004/2005 outbreaks,
              involving Ha Tay, Vinh Phuc, Tien Giang and An Giang. Samples were taken from
              chickens and ducks for serological and virological testing. A total of 4521 sero-
              samples were tested, of which 3331 came from ducks and 1,190 from chickens.



                                                     26

         · A pilot bio-security surveillance was undertaken in twelve state-owned GP farms and
              twelve large commercial poultry farms.

(c) Improving the quality of monthly animal disease reporting. The project improved
relationships at the community level with and between CAHWs, organizations such as the VWU,
and district veterinary staff. This activity was deemed to be one of the key successes of the
project. Recent disease outbreaks in poultry in project provinces (e.g., in Dong Thap) were
reported and investigated quickly, indicating that disease reporting from the communities in
project provinces was working effectively, especially when significant poultry mortalities occur.
The information system TADInfo has been installed at DAH and all SDAH offices. Selected
staff members have been trained in its use and the system is being used for an increasing number
of provinces for reporting animal disease outbreak data (AI, Foot and Mouth Disease, Classical
Swine Fever, Rabies and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Disease). At present, only 40
percent of animal health staff in each province are using the system, and information flow
remains largely one way (from provinces to central level). Nevertheless, the quality of
information provided on the DAH website has improved markedly during the life of the project
and is, in part, attributable to the capacity building and resources provided to the disease
surveillance and epidemiological inputs from the project.

(d) Enhancing national and regional laboratory capacity and HPAI research. The project
provided essential equipment, reagents and training to the NVDC in Hanoi and to four RVCs to
allow diagnostic testing and surveillance studies to be undertaken. These inputs also resulted in
greater standardization of laboratory techniques and improved communication between the
various laboratories undertaking this work. The project also supported the NIVR in developing
this Centre to qualify as the National Reference Laboratory for Avian Influenza. Equipment for
sequencing nucleic acids from influenza virus isolates was provided. This has been used to assess
the genetic characteristics of AI viruses isolated in Vietnam, which is critical for a full
understanding of the evolution of this disease and the viruses that cause it. The high security
facility at NIVR has been completed and is operational. Resources provided to provincial and
district staff (including vehicles) facilitated the safe collection of appropriate specimens and
follow-up on reports of disease. More detail on the equipment and training is presented below.

         · 183 equipment items (more than US$1 million) were procured, installed and
              activated.
         · 62 items of chemicals, reagents and diagnostic kits were provided.
         · 13 items of training equipment were provided.
         · Training courses were provided to laboratory staff.
         · Two reference laboratory staff were trained in AI diagnosis and sequencing
              technology in Australia.

(e) Strategic studies. The preparation of a National Emergency Contingency Plan for HPAI,
including an up-date of the National Action Plan to Control AI Epidemics, and a Self-Evaluation
of Veterinary Services were completed in accordance with OIE standards for the quality and
evaluation of veterinary services. The Emergency Contingency Plan was adopted by the
government.

(f) Enhancing national and provincial capacity for emergency outbreak containment. The
project provided resources for a rapid and effective response to recurring AI outbreaks in project
and non-project provinces. During the project period, four project provinces and 20 non-project
provinces received stockpiles of disinfectants, sprayers and protective clothing from the project



                                                    27

(i.e., 5,540 sets of protective clothes, 4,330 pairs of rubber boots, 6,000 protective masks, 7,100
rubber gloves, 600 hand sprayers, 294 machine sprayers, and 13.8 tons of disinfectants). These
appeared useful and effective in emergency outbreak containment.

Component B. Poultry Sub-sector Rehabilitation

2.2 The key outputs of this component were:

(a) The Up-grading the Bio-security of GP Facilities. The project provided technical assistance
(using an FAO-contracted international consultant) to conduct in September 2005 a detailed
review of the bio-security facilities of 12 GP farms. The review included a detailed technical
needs assessment followed by construction designs by national engineering consultants.
Equipment and civil works were procured and provided to the GP farms according to the
specifications received from the consultants. Because of the lengthy period required by MARD's
technical departments to appraise and approve the bio-security up-grading plans, much of the
procurement and civil works was completed only shortly before the extended date for the
project's closure.

(b) GP Breeding Stock Supply. A pre-condition of the supply of GP poultry breeds was the
prior up-grading of bio-security facilities of the designated GP farms, in order to protect the
investment in GP breeding stock and to ensure that GP farms would not become a source of
infectious disease. Since construction and procurement of technical equipment for enhanced bio-
security was only completed shortly before project closure, subsequent GP breed procurement
was delayed to the very last month. An additional factor contributing to the delays was the ban
imposed by MARD on the importation of breeding stock during AI outbreaks. By the timeof
project closure, about 13,100 GP day-old chicks had been imported to supply five GP farms6.

(c) Strategic Studies. With financial and technical assistance from the FAO Technical
Cooperation Project (TCP) and the FAO-CP, the project completed the following studies:

     · The survey on poultry losses resulting from the AI epidemic was conducted by the
         General Statistics Office at central, provincial and district levels. The field work was
         carried out in close cooperation with local government officials. A case study report
         entitled "Impacts of Avian Influenza outbreaks on poverty" was submitted to the Bank
         and MARD in August 2004.

     · The study entitled "Compensation and Related Financial Support Policy Strategy for
         Avian Influenza" was carried out from December 2004 to April 2005 by a national and
         international expert consultant, in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture of
         MARD. The report resulted in the passage of a new national Directive on compensation.

     · The strategic poultry sub-sector restructuring study was implemented in two phases. The
         DLP developed a project proposal for poultry sub-sector industrialization. Subsequently,
         an FAO-funded study under the project evaluated the impacts of new or modified



6Three GP farms of MARD had procured GP breeds using the government funds; two other state-owned
farms were being privatized and therefore were not considered appropriate to receive funds from the
project; one GP farm had enough GP stock and one farm planned to import breeding stock by itself later in
August-September using its own funds.




                                                   28

         regulations and directives relating to poultry production and marketing. This, and a
         subsequent related study, provided valuable information for policy makers on the effects
         of this disease on different players in the poultry production and market chain and the
         impact of measures implemented by government to control AI. A review of legislation
         and regulations relating to poultry marketing was also conducted simultaneously with
         WHO funding.

    · MARD released a revised project plan for "Centralization and industrialization of
         poultry farming, slaughtering and processing for the period 2006-2015" in January 2006.
         On the basis of this plan, the DLP requested during an OPI preparation mission advice on
         the socio-economic and environmental impacts of the planned project. A study entitled
         "Poultry Sector Restructuring in Vietnam" was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team
         consisting of international and national experts from May to June 2006. It was funded
         jointly by FAO-CP and FAO Vietnam and was carried out in collaboration with the DLP.
         This study provided additional guidance on appropriate measures to implement in the
         future relating to new livestock production zones.

Component C. Public Awareness and Information

2.3 The key outputs of this component were:

(a) Capacity-building in communication and public information. The project supported a
training needs assessment of veterinary and livestock extension staff at the central, provincial,
district, commune and village levels; the recruitment of additional extension workers; and the
provision of additional equipment and training of extension staff (training of trainers), which was
completed in March 2006. The training needs assessment provided: (a) information on
knowledge and knowledge gaps of extension workers and farmers; and (b) valuable information
on the communication methodologies used for providing and receiving information by extension
workers and farmers. The assessment was used for developing an integrated training plan.
Activities under Sub-component C.1 have significantly enhanced the communication capacity of
provincial and local levels on AI. More information is presented below:

    · Communication equipment was procured and provided to 40 communes of twenty
         districts in ten project provinces.
    · Twenty training courses were organized on the use of communication equipment for 300
         participants in ten project provinces.
    · Two training courses were organized and provided to 48 provincial extension staff.
    · Ten "training of trainers" courses were organized for 240 participants in ten project
         provinces. The training topics included training methods and skills, communication
         methods and skills, poultry farming techniques, poultry diseases, and disease prevention
         and treatment measures.
    · Ten training courses were organized for mass organizations in ten project provinces with
         350 participants.
    · Forty training courses with 1200 participants were organized for village and commune
         staff in ten project provinces on AI and communication skills.

(b) Community public awareness and information campaigns. The project conducted
information campaigns at 1,700 communes with the participation of 51,000 villagers. Interviews
with selected farmers demonstrated that the training delivered by trainers was greatly appreciated
by the trainees (it is noteworthy that one of the key items identified in the training needs



                                                   29

assessment was a lack of basic training provided to farmers in the past on poultry husbandry). In
addition, the project also printed and disseminated 330,000 leaflets, a manual (2,000 copies),
4,600 posters, three videos and 860 minutes of radio broadcasting in ten project provinces.




                                                30

ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

3.1 This section was condensed from the "Project Impact Assessment Report" prepared by the
FAO-World Bank Cooperative Programme, dated September 16, 2007.

Economic Analysis: Methods

3.2 The economic impact assessment at project appraisal7 estimated that the financial losses
resulting from the HPAI outbreaks in early 2004 amounted to US$100-120 million. The analysis
was restricted to direct losses that had occurred in the poultry sector from 44 million dead or
culled birds and related production losses in early 2004.

3.3 The main potential costs to the Vietnamese economy resulting from HPAI are within the
following sectors:

     · Public health sector: costs from human infections, including those associated with the
          emergence of a human pandemic strain of the influenza virus.
     · Tourism sector: losses due to decreases in the number of visitors.
     · Agricultural sector: costs of the disease to the poultry sub-sector and substitution effects
          to other livestock production sectors

3.4 The economic analysis aims at quantifying the costs and benefits of controlling HPAI. The
time period of the analysis is constrained to the three-year project length. Long-term benefits
resulting from decreased disease attack rates and higher productivity in the poultry sub-sector can
be expected, but depend heavily on the assumptions made for disease transmission with and
without the project.

3.5 Other funding sources for HPAI control measures are also taken into consideration, since
they have also contributed significantly to the control of HPAI in Vietnam. These funds were
mainly supplied by the government of Vietnam, international development agencies and bilateral
donors. Quantified benefits are attributed to the project according to its share in investments in
HPAI control. It must be stressed that the project provided funds at a very early stage of HPAI
outbreaks, a measure important to quickly contain disease spread, as well as facilitating a
comprehensive disease control approach. The share of the project in all funds provided for HPAI
control in the agricultural sector is presented in Table 3.1.

Table 3.1 Funds for HPAI control in the agricultural sector in 1,000 US$

                            Total discounted          Total       2004        2005        2006         2007
AIERP8                            4,000               5,637        169        1,466       1,804        2,198
GoV9                              25,941              36,646      1,179      11,858       13,993       8,616
Other                             15,826              18,871       257        5,839       6,096        6,679
Total                             43,409             133,177      1,605      19,162       21,893      17,493
AIERP share in %                    9                   4          11            8           8          13
Source: Matrix of Official Development Assistance for Avian and Human Influenza in Viet Nam, Draft updated June
07



7Report No. T7631-VN AIERP Technical Annex
8without JSDF
9without funds used for compensation



                                                       31

Public health sector

3.6 The control of HPAI in Vietnam represents a global public good. The risk of a human
influenza pandemic increases with the uncontrolled multiplication of HPAI viruses in poultry,
and with subsequent spill-over infection of humans. HPAI control measures supported by the
project are therefore also reducing the risk of a global pandemic.

3.7 Even though the risk of the emergence of a human pandemic influenza virus from currently
circulating H5N1 viruses in poultry is unquantifiable and the possible timing of such an event is
unknown, its costs, if they were to occur, are sufficiently high that actions to control H5N1 HPAI
can be justified on this basis alone. The cost estimates for the emergence of a human pandemic
strain of H5N1 influenza vary considerably, but losses to the global economy in the order of
hundreds of billions of dollars have been suggested.10 Therefore, the project's contribution to the
global good of HPAI pandemic prevention has not been quantified in the economic analysis. This
omission is not meant to underplay the benefits associated with reducing the risk of a global
pandemic. It merely prevents basing the analysis on highly speculative assumptions while
facilitating an analysis of the profitability of HPAI control within the agricultural sector.

3.8 Animal-to-human transmissions of the disease in Vietnam have occurred, leading to fatal
cases. As of 12 October 2007, 96 cases have been reported, including 46 fatalities. Comparing
the situation in 2004, when 29 cases were reported, with the situation in the first half of 2007,
when only two cases were reported, demonstrates that substantial success has been made in
reducing HPAI virus exposure to humans. However, since the hospitalization costs are limited
and the benefits from saving human lives are unquantifiable they were not included in the
economic analysis.

Tourism sector

3.9 The threat of animal-to-human disease transmission has potential implications for other
branches of the economy, especially the rapidly-growing tourism sector in Vietnam. There was
no indication that the tourism industry was adversely affected to any significant extent in 2004
when HPAI in poultry first emerged in Vietnam. The reported number of tourist arrivals in the
winter of 2004 (see Figure 3.1) indicates that tourism would not be affected by the emergence of
HPAI outbreaks. However, the impact would be far greater if an H5N1 virus were to convert to a
human pandemic strain (or appeared to be doing so). If this were to occur, individuals would
begin to practice voluntary social isolation bringing the tourism industry to a standstill. The
adverse impacts of SARS on international tourism in Vietnam have already demonstrated the
likely magnitude of the effect that would follow the emergence, or even signs of the emergence,
of a pandemic strain of human influenza.

3.10 The project's contribution to HPAI control may have prevented more sizeable impacts on
tourist arrivals in subsequent years. However, a quantification of these prevented costs is highly
hypothetical and therefore not included within this analysis.




10

http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/NEWS/0,,contentMDK:20978927~menuPK:34472~pagePK:34370~
piPK:34424~theSitePK:4607,00.html



                                                  32

Figure 3.1: Monthly tourist arrivals 2003-2007


                            400



                            300



                            200



                            100



                             0
                                Jul-03 Oct -03 Jan-04 Apr-04 Jul-04 Oct -04 Jan-05 Apr-05 Jul-05 Oct -05 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Oct-06 Jan-07 Apr-07



Source: Vietnam Statistical Yearbook

Agricultural sector

3.11 The ex post economic analysis focuses on the costs and benefits of HPAI control measures
in the agricultural sector. The project was designed and implemented to fight the disease at its
source in the agricultural sector. The benefits accounted for in the economic analysis result from
averted costs in poultry stocks and production due to enhanced HPAI control measures.

Poultry sector ­ A brief description

3.12 It is assumed that poultry mortality and culling rates would have been considerably higher
without the HPAI control measures supported by the project and other funding sources, especially
during the first two years of the project, when AI outbreaks were frequent. The assumptions
regarding mortality rates and resulting poultry losses are presented in Table 3.2. It is assumed
that an additional 42 million poultry would have been lost without the control measures supported
between 2004 and 2007. The reduced culling during outbreaks as the result of introduction of
mass vaccination between 2005 and 2006 was a main contributing factor in the decreasing
outbreak rate. Though the project did not fund the vaccination campaign implemented by the
government, it did play a key role in providing supporting technical advice on the implementation
of this campaign.

Table 3.2 Death and culling rate assumptions with and without the project

                                                                     2003             2004              2005             2006            2007
  t                           Death and culling rate %                   -             20                 7                 7              4
   ou         ectoj           No. of poultry lost                        -        50,000,000        15,000,000        15,000,000     8,000,000
     with          pr
                              Death and culling rate                     -             17                 0                 0              0
                     ectoj    No. of poultry lost                        -        44,000,000          1,000,000         6,000         320,000
         with             pr




                                                                                  33

3.13 The project scenario assumes decreased mortality and culling rates of poultry. Averted
economic costs that need to be considered include direct costs, such as losses of poultry due to the
disease, and control measures implemented, such as the culling of birds. Costs of poultry stock
losses are calculated on the basis of import prices for live poultry meat11, which represent the
replacement costs to the Vietnamese economy, which averaged about US$1.03 per kg of poultry
meat. A 40 percent price premium is used for the indigenous poultry stock, representing the
observed price difference between commercial and indigenous poultry.

3.14 The reduced stock of productive poultry and the down-time in production result in overall
reduced meat and egg production. Production losses of meat and eggs are valued at import prices
for live poultry meat and eggs, respectively. About 80 percent of the poultry is kept in
smallholder backyard systems. It can be assumed that in this low-intensity system one-half of a
production cycle of 1.4 kg of live weight is lost from every dead or culled bird. Within the
commercial production systems, two production cycles of 1.7 kg of live weight each are assumed
to be lost per dead or culled bird. Since most of the feed ingredients used for livestock
production are imported, the value of feed not used due to decreased poultry production is
subtracted.

3.15 Substitution effects within the livestock production sector are likely. With the
implementation of the project and from other HPAI control measures implemented, pork
production, for instance, grew at an annual rate of 12 percent (14 percent from 2004 to 2005),
compared to 8 percent in preceding years.

3.16 Feed products not used for poultry production may therefore be used in pork production
and losses in poultry meat production are substituted with the additional production of pork meat.
However, in Vietnam's dynamically growing livestock sector which is being supported by other
government programs, the growth in pork production cannot be exclusively attributed to HPAI
outbreaks in poultry. Under the `without project' scenario, a further expansion of pork
production above the observed increases may not have been realistic. Therefore, substitution
effects within the livestock sector due to additional death and culling under the `without project'
scenario are not quantified within the economic analysis.

         Figure 3-2: Total meat production in live weight in Vietnam, 2003 ­ 2007 (` 000 tons)

            3,500




            3,000




            2,500

                                                                            Pork meat
            2,000

                                                                            Beef and buffalo
            1,500                                                           meat
                                                                            Poultry
            1,000




              500




               0
                      2003           2004             2005              2006           2007



         Source: USDA FAS Livestock report 2005 and 2006; own calculations




11FAOSTAT import prices for Vietnam



                                                   34

Economic Analysis: Results

3.17 The benefits of the project focus exclusively on prevented losses in the poultry sub-sector.
Without the project there would have been less meat produced in total, but pork production would
have remained unaffected. Aggregated results of the economic analysis are presented in Table
3.3. The total direct benefits resulting from all HPAI control interventions in Vietnam amount to
US$14.6 million in 2004, US$30.1 million in 2005, US$22.4 million, and US$10.9 million in
2007. Based on the project's share of combined funds made available for HPAI control in
Vietnam (Table 3.3), these benefits can be partly attributed to the project. The results of the
analysis show a positive NPV of US$1.4 million for the project.

Table 3.3 Results of Economic Analysis (in US$)

                                         2004            2005              2006              2007
 Investments
 Project costs                         169,098         1,465,516         1,803,712        2,198,274
 Direct Benefits
 Poultry stock                         7,603,200      18,849,600        19,582,284       11,534,663
 Poultry meat production               6,093,419       5,463,091           -43,664          -637,082
 Egg production                          918,797       5,790,996         2,894,956           29,032
 Total                                14,615,416      30,103,688        22,433,576       10,926,613
 Project share of direct benefits      1,539,891       2,302,293         1,848,281         1,373,070
 Net Benefits                          1,370,793         836,777            44,569          -825,204
 NPV@12% discount rate                 1,398,287

3.18 In addition to the direct benefits quantified, there are several broader and indirect benefits
derived from project interventions. It should be reiterated that the benefits of the project would
be much higher if the project's contribution to reducing the possibility and costs of a global
pandemic resulting from HPAI virus mutation were quantified. Strengthened veterinary services
and up-graded laboratory capacity also enhance the control of other emerging trans-boundary
diseases and subsequently improve the productivity of the livestock sector. Market risks resulting
from HPAI are reduced, providing a more stable economic environment for investments in the
poultry sector. Shifts in investments towards other less profitable sectors due to risk aversion are
also reduced. Improved HPAI control also reduces health risks to producers and consumers.

Sensitivity analysis

3.19 The sensitivity analysis includes the results of a five percent decrease in dead and culled
poultry per year from 2004 to 2007 for the `without project' scenario (see Table 3.2 for initial
assumptions). This has significant impacts on the results of the economic analysis. The NPV is
reduced to US$615,834. The economic benefits of HPAI control highly depend on the
assumptions regarding death and culling rates of poultry without HPAI control measures.
However, the initial assumption made regarding mortality and culling rates "without-project" is
on the lower side, considering the rapid spread of HPAI with high mortality rates experienced in
early 2004.




                                                  35

Table 3.4 Results of the Sensitivity Analysis (US$)

                                        2004            2005            2006             2007
Direct Benefits
Poultry stock                        4,435,200       17,839,800      18,602,778       10,933,899
Poultry meat production               3,554,494       5,170,426         -41,480         -603,901
Egg production                         535,965        5,480,764       2,750,150           27,520
Total                                8,525,659       28,490,990      21,311,449       10,357,518
Project share of direct benefits       898,270        2,178,956       1,755,830        1,301,556
Net Benefits                           729,172          713,440         -47,882         -896,718
NPV@12% discount rate                  615,834

Farm household-level impacts on financial status

3.20 The financial impact of HPAI control in general and the specific contribution of the project
on the producers' and consumers' financial status in particular are manifold. A detailed
quantification of all effects is not feasible and would depend heavily on multiple assumptions.
The following financial analysis focuses on some major effects in order to illustrate the scope of
these impacts.

3.21 Considerable market price effects had been observed during the first year of outbreaks, due
to a demand collapse for poultry products. However, market price effects on stakeholder
household finances are not considered in the financial analysis. Although market prices had a
considerable impact on household income, market price fluctuations were not influenced by the
project. These fluctuations were mainly demand-driven and only extensive consumer information
and communication campaigns may have stabilized the demand.

3.22 The impact of poultry losses with and without compensation and subsequent income losses
due to production downtime are considered in the financial-analysis of farm household impact.
Farmer households benefited from averted direct losses from dead and culled poultry since the
project reduced the number of HPAI outbreaks. Subsequent income losses due to lost poultry
were therefore also confined to fewer households. Households that lost poultry due to culling
received payments from the government compensation scheme that was devised by the project.
Farm households received US$0.95 for each bird culled.

3.23 Financial farm household impacts were analyzed for two representative household models
with different poultry production systems and different flock sizes. Out of the 8.3 million
households keeping poultry in 2003, about 7.8 million households keep poultry in flock sizes
with less than 50 birds and can be classified as Sector 4 smallholders. An average flock size of
17 native birds is kept in these low input-low output backyard production systems. Another
representative household group is those keeping commercial poultry with an average flock size of
200 birds. These can be classified as Sector 3 semi-commercial producers.

3.24 The project's impacts on the financial status of households are presented in Table 3.5. Due
to the compensation scheme that had been set up with policy advice from the project, smallholder
(semi-commercial) households whose poultry had been culled benefited from the compensation
payment. This amounts to US$16.2 (357.7) compensation payment for an average flock size of
17 (200) birds culled per smallholder (semi-commercial) household. Other households that have
been protected from HPAI outbreaks benefited from averted poultry stock losses in the amount of
US$26.5 (506.3) per smallholder (semi-commercial) household and averted income losses due to
production downtime in the amount of US$25.9 (219.2).



                                                  36

Table 3.5 Impacts on the Financial Status of Poultry-keeping Households (US$ per year)

                                                         Smallholder         Semi-commercial
                                                          household              household
  Average income from poultry                                51.8                   438.4
  Lost poultry stock                                         26.5                   506.3
  Income losses from production downtime                     25.9                   219.2
  Compensation for culled birds                              16.2                   357.7

3.25 Through setting up a compensation scheme for culled poultry and averting HPAI outbreaks
with subsequent culling of poultry the project improved the financial status on a farm-household
level. For a semi-commercial poultry farm household, the loss of poultry stock with an average
value of US$506.3 and income losses due to one production cycle of downtime of about
US$219.2 is relatively high compared to an annual income of US$438.4 from poultry production.
Even more important is the project's contribution to disease risk reduction which also reduces the
financial risk of poultry keeping households in terms of losing their income source.




                                                37

ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION
PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members

            Names                       Title                 Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending

Phillip Brylski          Country Sector Coordinator       EASEN-
                                                            HIS    Environment

Binh Thang Cao           Senior Operations Officer        EASVS Institutional Development
Laurent Msellati         Manager, Portfolio and Operation EACVF Task Team Leader
Thang Chien Nguyen       Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPCO Procurement
Thong Quang Tran         Financial Management Specialist  EAPCO Financial Management

Supervision/ICR
Laurent Msellati         Manager, Portfolio and Operation EACVF Former TTL
Binh Thang Cao           Senior Operations Officer        EASVS TTL, project management
Abraham C. Brandenburg   Animal Health Consultant         AFTAR Component A
Les Sims                 Animal Health Consultant         FAO-CP Component A
Anni McLeod              Livestock Policy Consultant       FAO     Component B
Jim Hancock              Economist, Consultant             FAO     Component C
Jan Hinrichs             Economist, Consultant                     Component B
Thang Chien Nguyen       Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPCO Procurement
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan      E T Consultant                   EAPCO Financial Management
Thong Quang Tran         Financial Management Specialist  EAPCO Financial Management
 Hoi-Chan Nguyen         Senior Counsel                   LEGEA Legal Aspects
Thu Le Thi Nguyen        Program Assistant                EACVF Overall Assistance



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                        11                          212.29
  FY05                                         1                           94.63
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                      0.00

Total:                                        12                          306.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                        12                           46.91
  FY06                                        12                          141.31
  FY07                                         7                          105.23
  FY08                                                                      0.25

Total:                                        31                          293.70




                                          38

ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

5.1 No beneficiary survey has been carried out. However, for the companion project (the JSDF-
funded Smallholder Recovery Assistance from Avian Influenza and Improved Vigilance Project
TF 054219) a thorough evaluation report12 is being prepared by a team comprising a team
comprising an international team leader, two national agricultural economists and a national rural
sociologist, who carried out detailed field surveys. The executive summary of this report is
attached below because of the complementarities which exist between the activities funded by the
IDA Credit and those funded by the JSDF Grant.

5.2 Background. In response to the devastating avian influenza epidemic that struck Vietnam in
early 2004, the Government of Japan provided a Japan Social Development Fund Grant of $1.783
million to assist the country in fighting the disease. The Grant, implemented in parallel with the
Vietnam Avian Influenza Emergency Control Project (AIERP), focused on helping affected low-
income stakeholders at the grassroots level to recover from losses caused by the epidemic. The
Grant had three objectives: (a) restock poor households who had lost their livelihood from poultry
as the result of avian influenza, (b) establish a community-based disease surveillance network at
the sub-provincial level, and (c) implement a public awareness and information campaign for
consumer and stakeholders. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) as the
principal grant recipient, implemented the Grant through two technical agencies, the Departments
of Animal Health (DAH) and Livestock Production (DLP). The National Agricultural Extension
Center (NAEC) provided support in training and the delivery of public awareness messages. Two
NGOS were contracted to help implement the Grant. The Vietnam Women's Union, one of
Vietnam's largest "mass organizations" considered a national NGO, conducted the beneficiary
selection, carried out household risk assessment, and provided backup support during and
following the delivery of restocked poultry. The international NGO Agronomes et Vétérinaires
sans Frontières set up the community-based surveillance network, trained master trainers, and
provided training to commune veterinary staff. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and its
provincial counterparts responsible for the implementation of AIERP, also supervised the
implementation of the JSDF Grant.

5.3 Implementation. The Grant was implemented between March 5, 2005 and June 30, 2007,
including a 6-month extension period, in 30 districts of the ten provinces most affected by avian
influenza that were also covered by AIERP. Under the restocking component, 8,366 beneficiaries
received 1.22 million poultry, raised under confined, biosecure conditions and vaccinated to
protect them against avian flu and other diseases. After a small trial delivery in three northern
provinces to iron out logistical problems, poultry delivery was carried in two rounds; during a 4-
month stretch starting in September 2006, followed by second round in May-June, 2007. All of
the poultry were of suitable indigenous broiler breeds, selected from health-certified breeder
farms. Beneficiaries were trained to set up a biosecurity barrier by constructing a poultry house,
use proper disinfection, and raise poultry under fully confined conditions, using purchased feed.
The overall mortality of restocked poultry from delivery to market was 7.7 percent, as compared
with a background 47 percent mortality in free-ranging (i.e. non-confined, non-biosecure)
backyard poultry. The VWU carried out beneficiary selection in a transparent and equitable
manner, and set up self-help women's poultry groups in each commune that exchanged
information and communicated closely with commune veterinary staff. The AVSF established a
community-based disease surveillance and early warning network in the project's 30 districts, and



12Draft Report: Japan Social Development Fund Smallholder Poultry Restocking Project - Project Evaluation Report.



                                                    39

trained commune veterinary staff in its implementation. The NAEC conducted a smallholder
training needs assessment from which a smallholder poultry production training manual was
developed. NAEC was also instrumental in implementing the public awareness campaign.

5.4 Grant disbursement reached $1.345 million, (75.4 percent of total), including 82.3 percent
for restocking, 69.3 percent for community-based disease surveillance, and 24 percent for public
awareness. Most of the project management budget was covered under AIERP. In spite of the 6-
month extension, final disbursement stayed below full completion, as the result of delays in
contractual agreements with the NGOs, delayed procurement clearances by MARD and PCU, and
repeated animal movement bans during avian flu outbreaks, which would temporarily halt poultry
delivery and thereby delay restocking.

5.5 Financial and economic analysis. Financial and economic rates of return of the project, at a
10 percent discount rate, were 17 and 15 percent, respectively, and might well have been higher,
had the project been designed to support more than one production batch of poultry. Increases in
feed prices (comprising 85 percent of production cost) and drops in poultry prices had profound
negative effects on financial and economic returns, pointing to the need for improved production
efficiency when shifting from free-ranging to confined poultry raising. The cost of providing
effective biosecurity, estimated at an average $250 per household, posed a significant financial
constraint for lower income beneficiaries. Furthermore, confined poultry keeping requires hand
feeding with purchased feed instead of no-cost free-range scavenging, which significantly adds to
the cost of production. Although increased growth rates and lower mortality will offset these
higher costs, the lack of funds to reach this higher-input level of husbandry was a constraint for
many. There was a significant effect of the impact of bio-security on profitability. Households
with a higher than average poultry mortality as the result on inadequate levels of bio-security,
also had a 135 percent lower profitability compared to households practicing sound bio-security.
Linking profitability to improved bio-security is therefore a powerful tool in convincing
smallholders to upgrade their poultry husbandry and thereby safeguard their lives and livelihoods
against unforeseen disaster.

5.6 Social Assessment. Backyard poultry-raising is a rural women's job, and the involvement of
the VWU--the country's largest women's organization--in helping rural women to protect and
improve their incomes from poultry became a much appreciated woman-to-woman gender effort.
A socio-economic survey demonstrated the great need by rural women to learn more about bio-
secure poultry-raising and thereby protect their household income from poultry. Close to 80
percent of respondents was not aware that introducing bio-security could protect their poultry
from disease, and 82 percent said they needed far more training in sound poultry husbandry
practices. Beneficiaries learned to keep simple production records to learn about poultry
performance and to determine the cost of production of, and profits made from, their poultry.

5.7 Project Sustainability and Lessons Learned. Even though the project was short-lived and
comprised the production of only one batch of poultry, it created a potential model for replication.
As a pilot effort, the project showed that, (a) improving the bio-security of backyard poultry
keeping is feasible and can contribute to countering endemic disease and production losses, and
(b) shifting from free-ranging to confined poultry keeping will improve poultry performance,
reduce mortality, and increase profits. The overriding factor in achieving this shift is that there
must be a clear financial incentive for households to want to shift from free-ranging, low-input
backyard poultry keeping to confined, more costly, more labor-intensive poultry production. The
biosecurity measures introduced by the project must therefore be sound, so that stakeholders will
have the confidence to adopt the new system. Poor and low-income households who cannot



                                                  40

afford the cost of introducing effective biosecurity may fall by the wayside, if not financially
assisted.

5.8 The support structure to improve smallholder poultry production is very substantial, and
must be bottom-up, and community driven. Participation by the VWU, which has branches from
the central down to the commune levels, was therefore invaluable. It is clear that the introduction
of behavior change to shift smallholders from free ranging to confined backyard poultry-raising
was successful. The model introduced by the JSDF project can be an additional tool in countering
endemic avian flu and other infectious diseases in backyard poultry. That the project model was
successful was also seen by the numerous non-project households asking to take part in the
training and setting up their own bio-security. Project households that continued bio-secure
poultry raising after project closure reached as high as 40 percent in several districts. An
expansion of the JSDF project over a larger area and longer time span will more clearly define the
constraints and opportunities of this intervention.

5.9 Other important lessons learned included: keep smallholder training simple and hands on;
participatory implementation by means of self-help women's groups fosters project ownership;
cooperation from district and commune governments is crucial; and minimize up-stream and
down-stream steps in reviews and clearances.




                                                 41

ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

No stakeholder workshop was held for the project.




                                         42

ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT
ICR

Note: Comments on the draft ICR were received from MARD on June 5, 2007. MARD agreed
with the ICR's assessments of the project's achievements, particularly on the project impacts on
economic, social, and environmental development.
_____________________________________________________________________________
                        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
                              Implementation Completion Report

                                   (IDA-39690 JPN-54219)

                   for the Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project
                                        December, 2007
______________________________________________________________________________

1. Basic Information

Project name: The Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project (Cr.3969-Vn)

The implementation period: 2004 - 2007 (extended 6 months)

Donors: International Development Association The World Bank (IDA/WB)
         Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations (FAO)
         Government of Vietnam
Total budget: US$ 6.2 million

1.1. Project development objectives: The development objectives of the project, in support the
National Action Plan for the Control of the Avian Influenza Epidemic, were: (a) to strengthen
disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity in the control of highly pathogenic avian influenza
(HPAI); (b) to strengthen poultry sector infrastructure to cope better with serious disease
outbreaks; and (c) to safeguard human health by improving public awareness and information.

1.2. Project area: the project was implemented in ten provinces, which included: (i) three
northern provinces of Thai Binh, Vinh Phuc, and Ha Tay; (ii) two coastal central provinces of
Thua Thien Hue and Binh inh; and (iii) five southern provinces of Dong Nai, An Giang, Tien
Giang, Dong Thap and Long An.

1.3 Main Beneficiaries: The project was intended to benefit five main groups:

    (a) Smallholder poultry farmers, especially the poor, who would benefit from receiving
        training and technical assistance on prevention techniques and bio-security measures
        against AI. These activities were complimented by a Japan Social Development Trust
        Fund (JSDF) grant supporting re-stocking activities for those smallholders who had
        suffered large losses from the epidemic.
    (b) GP poultry breeding farms, which would benefit through the up-grading of bio-security
        and additional supplies of AI-free breeding stock.
    (c) Veterinary networks, laboratory systems, disease surveillance and extension systems,
        which would benefit from strengthening their technical and institutional capacity.




                                                 43

    (d) The MARD and participating central and local governments' technical and administrative
        bodies, which would benefit from conducting strategic studies, thereby improving their
        capacity for disease diagnosis and response to emergency AI outbreaks.
    (e) Consumers and other stakeholders who would benefit from being informed and made
        aware of the risks to human health, thereby reducing the risk of spill-over infection
        through better control and preventive measures of avian influenza in poultry.

1.4. Project components: The project consisted of four components as follows:

1.4.1 Component A: Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance, Diagnostic Capacity and
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Virus Research was designed to strengthen the epidemio-
surveillance network for animal diseases, expand and upgrade the existing diagnostic capacity of
one central and four regional veterinary diagnostic laboratories to better identify infectious animal
diseases, and strengthen research on HPAI virus. A rapid-response field surveillance and
reporting system was established to assist these laboratories in better identifying and reporting
animal disease outbreaks. The component comprised five subcomponents:

        · Subcomponent A.1 ­ Strengthening Animal Disease Surveillance was designed to
             support both public and private veterinary services by developing effective operating
             procedures at all levels and the training of field staff in disease detection and the
             rapid reporting of clinical HPAI.
        · Subcomponent A.2 ­ Diagnostic Capacity Upgrading was designed support the
             upgrading of diagnostic laboratory capacity of the National Veterinary Diagnostic
             Center (NVDC) in Hanoi and of four Regional Veterinary Centers (RVC) located in
             Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Vinh and Can Tho.
        · Subcomponent A.3 ­ Strengthening HPAI Virus Research was designed to support
             the establishment of a Virus Reference Laboratory (VRL) at NIVR, through the
             provision of technical assistance, laboratory equipment, reagents and training, to
             allow for HPAI detection and virus typing.
        · Subcomponent A.4 ­ Strategic Studies was designed to support the preparation of
             two strategic studies: the preparation of a National Contingency Plan for HPAI; and
             the self-evaluation of veterinary services. This subcomponent was supported by FAO
             TCP source.
        · Subcomponent A.5 ­ Emergency Outbreak Containment Plan was designed to
             support the preparation and financing of a rapid mobilization plan to respond quickly
             and effectively to recurring AI outbreaks in three project or non-project provinces.

1.4.2 Component B: Poultry Subsector Rehabilitation was designed to support the
rehabilitation of the poultry subsector which was severely affected by the avian influenza
epidemic by providing new GP poultry breeding stocks and upgrading the biosecurity of 12
government-owned GP poultry breeding farms. A number of strategic studies were also
conducted to assist poultry sector restructuring. The component comprised three subcomponents:

        · Subcomponent B.1 ­ Provision of New Breeding Stock. A total of 15,000 GP poultry
             and ducks were planned to be imported, to augment the GP stock of 12 poultry
             breeding farms under MARD.
        · Subcomponent B.2 ­ Upgrading Biosecurity of GP Farms was designed to support
             biosecurity upgrading of the above-mentioned farms, to reinforce their defences
             against infectious disease outbreaks.




                                                  44

         · Subcomponent B.3 ­ Strategic Studies were designed to provide guidelines for a
             compensation policy and poultry sector restructuring, and compensate and prevent
             poultry losses resulting from future AI outbreaks.

1.4.3 Component C: Public Awareness and Information was designed to safeguard human
health and safety, in particular of extension staff, animal health workers, poultry producers and
their families, by improving public awareness and information. The component was implemented
in all ten project provinces and provided support to: (a) carry out a needs assessment of existing
poultry extension and public information programs; (b) develop community-based extension to
farmers and enhance public awareness; and (c) enhance the monitoring and evaluation of public
awareness and extension activities under the project. The component comprised three
subcomponents:

         · Subcomponent C.1 ­ Capacity Building in Communication and Public Information
             was designed to support the needs assessment of veterinary and livestock extension
             staff at the central, provincial, district, commune and village levels; the preparation of
             training programs and materials; the training of trainers (TOT) and of poultry farmers
             in animal health and improved husbandry, and the provision of technical assistance
             by an education specialist, an animal health specialist, a journalist and a web
             development specialist
         · Sub-component C.2 ­ Developing Pilot Models for Community-Based Rapid
             Communication was designed to support a training course in communications
             methodology for extension and veterinary staff at the provincial level, the training of
             trainers, a needs assessment on communications requirements for poultry producers,
             the preparation and dissemination of information materials, and the provision of
             communications and information equipment for provinces, districts and communes
         · Sub-component C.3 ­ Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was designed to support
             training in participatory monitoring and evaluation at all administrative levels, a mid-
             term evaluation workshop, development of an action plan for M&E, and the
             replication of successful models.

1.4.4. Component D ­ Project Management was managed by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) which was placed within the PCU of the IDA-funded Agricultural Diversification Project.
The PCU reported directly to the Agricultural Projects Management Board under MARD. The
component financed incremental PCU investment and operating costs (e.g., office rental, travel,
equipment and human resource support).

2 Project context

2.1. Project was designed when highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) overwhelmed to most
of Asian countries and Vietnam. In Vietnam, by April 2004 some 44 million poultry had been
destroyed or died and 15 human deaths and this number has increased to 46 by the end of July
2007. Apart from the major impact on public health and living environment, mass poultry culling
caused seriously economic losses not only to industrial and small scale poultry producers but also
to poultry traders.

2.2. The rapid outbreak occurrence and its transmission were over the control of disease
surveillance and diagnosis systems. In this context, the government has promulgated some
policies to limit poultry hatchery, poultry movement and poultry trade and applied some
biosecurity measures in poultry production areas in the whole country.



                                                    45

2.3. Due to the active co-operation of technical agencies and administrative agencies at all levels
and sound leading of the Government, AI outbreak was temporary under control but the risk of
AI outbreak re-occurrence, which would cause detrimental affect to public health, remains high.

2.4. In this case, thanks to strong commitment of MARD and support of concerned governmental
agencies, such as Ministry of Planning and Investment, Ministry of Finance, Vietnam State Bank,
Government Office, the project was prepared, negotiated and approved within five months and
the Credit Effectiveness was declared on November 9, 2004.

3. Implementation result and factors affecting the implementation

3.1. Component A: Strengthening disease surveillance, diagnostic capacity and highly
pathogenic avian influenza virus research: Implementation of Component A were highly
satisfactorily with 100% disbursement of the original budget.

3.2. Sub component A1 - Strengthening animal disease surveillance: This subcomponent has
supported actively the public and private veterinary services through improving flows of disease
information, providing training to staff, and supplying necessary office equipment and
transportation means for provincial, district and commune veterinarians and animal health
workers for disease surveillance.

· TADinfor system were set up and connected to Labnet to provide high-quality data sources.
    TAD information system supported the rapid daily reporting of disease from local levels and
    the collected data were used for epidemiology mapping. Thanks to these, leaders could make
    timely decisions. Moreover, local vet staffs had a better access to different national and
    international information sources and understood deeply the characteristics and risks of the
    disease in localities through internet connection.
· Training activities were supported for staffs at the provincial and district level on disease
    surveillance, sampling, diagnosis and disease report. Most of cases were detected accurately
    and controlled timely. In 2005 and 2007, though outbreaks occurred in some project
    provinces such as Dong Thap, Tien Giang, Vinh Phuc, Thai Binh, the outbreaks were of
    small scale and were controlled right after the detection.
· Together with strengthening of staff capacity in disease surveillance, the project provided the
    National Veterinary Diagnostic Center (NVDC) in Hanoi and four RVCs in Ho Chi Minh
    City, Da Nang, Can Tho and Vinh more than 13 categories of training and disease
    information equipment (94,778 USD), 8 categories of disease management and reporting
    means (75,194 USD), and 22 categories including motorbike, office equipment, vaccination
    syringe for 105 DVSs (237,229 USD). These investments were practical which helped
    veterinary offices at the centre and local level to perform their responsibility of disease
    surveillance better.
· With the project support, Regional Veterinary Centers of Can Tho, Da Nang, Vinh, Hai
    Phong, Ha Noi National Veterinary Diagnostic Center, and the Sub-institute of Veterinary
    Research Centre for the central region have tested 33,706 sero-samples and 11,728 virus-
    samples, of which 300 samples were of wild birds. Total budget amount for this activity was
    around VND5,838 million. Besides, project supported over VND600 million for traveling
    allowance for sampling and surveillance of suspected cases in 10 project provinces. The
    surveillance results indicated that the risk of AI outbreak re-occurrence is still high because
    of presence of virus in nature and the in unvaccinated waterfowls as virus carriers although
    virus prevalence was low.




                                                  46

· Some studies on pilot surveillance of bio-security in farms under the government
    management and village poultry production were conducted. The obtained results were
    encouraging although the trial time was short. Poultry producers were better aware of disease
    prevention and control measures and had a better understanding of the importance of
    contagious disease surveillance in general and AI in particular. Poultry flock control and
    management of the RVCs and SDAHs have also been strengthened. Besides, pilot serological
    surveillance studies to evaluate the HPAI virus prevalence were conducted in Ha Tay, Vinh
    Phuc, An Giang, and Tien Giang which were the high-risk provinces. The studies detected
    type A influenza virus, antibody of type A influenza virus, and H5 subtype in all 4 provinces
    (in both AI reported and non-reported areas). This again warned the potential risk of AI in
    waterfowls and has help Veterinary agencies prepare appropriate response measures.
· Communities-based surveillance activity. The frequently contact between DVS and commune
    veterinarians and animal health workers has been established. By monthly meetings, the
    project has established a mechanism for 2-way information exchange between public and
    private veterinarians at the commune level. Besides, based on training needs assessment
    conducted by NAEC responsible for component C, two TOT courses (40 participant/course)
    were provided to strengthening the vet capacity of 30 districts in 10 provinces on training
    skills, facilitation and technical skills of biosecurity, basic epidemiology, AI diagnosis,
    computer skills and editing skills for Vet bulletin, and operational maintenance.
· The Project supplied more than 900 copies of the manual on Biosecurity measures in poultry
    production for vets in 10 project provinces and dozens of flipcharts summarizing the above
    contents for vet training in districts. To supply more knowledge of basic epidemiology and AI
    diagnosis, the project supplied 3000 copies of the manuals for vets in the project and non-
    project provinces.

3.3 Sub-component A.2 - Upgrading Laboratory Capacity. The project provided HPAI-
dedicated diagnostic laboratory equipments, reagents and consumables at the National Veterinary
Diagnostic Center (NVDC) in Hanoi and four RVCs (Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Can Tho and
Vinh). The project supplied 58 categories of sophisticated equipment with a total investment cost
of US$805,839 and 104 testing tools with the total investment cost of US$68,296. The effective
use of the equipment has enhanced diagnosis capacity and accuracy of testing results. Before
2003, only NVDC and the RVC No. VI were able to use the PCR methods in AI diagnosis (about
50 samples/day). Presently, with the equipment provided by the project, all labs were able to test
H5N1 virus by Realtime PCR machine (50-200 virus samples/day). Apart from of A virus
detection by ELIZA and HA-HI techniques, the use of diagnosis kits and other diagnosis
materials (44 types of chemicals, reagents and diagnosis kits provided by the project with total
cost of US$142,743) also helped improve the testing capacity to 100- 900 samples/day. Besides,
with Class II Biosafety Cabinet and incinerators for treating disease samples, the level of
biosafety of the labs has been enhanced significantly.

3.4. Sub-component A3 - Veterinary Research Laboratory for HPAI Research. With the
technical support of FAO/OIE experts, the National Virus Reference Lab for AI has been built in
NIVR according to international standards and started its operation from April 2006. The project
provided the lab with 21 categories of modern equipment with total investment cost of
US$254,112 and 18 categories of chemicals, reagents with total investment cost of US$49,908.
Two staff of NIVR attended a training course in Australia on gene sequencing. The gene
sequencing machine is the most modern equipment supported by project. Results of gene
sequencing gave a better understanding of H5N1 evolution and its transmission. Training courses
on equipment usage were conducted together with lab operational quality management for the
accurate and timely testing results. At present, studies related to AI such as gene sequencing,



                                                   47

challenge trials, virus isolation, sero- type determination or study on antigen character were
conducted in the safety condition of this lab.

3.5. Sub-component A4 - Strategic Studies. This subcomponent supported two strategic
studies including the Study of National Emergency Contingency Plan for the Control of AI
Epidemics, and the Self-evaluation of Veterinary Services. The Study of National Emergency
Contingency Plan for the Control of AI Epidemics (with total cost of US$79,000) was carried out
with technical support of FAO. The study produced six guidelines documents which were
approved by MARD on December 5, 2005 and sent to all agencies at the central and local levels
for implementation. The Self-evaluation of Veterinary Services (with total cost of US$42,660)
were carried out through FAO and completed on April 2005. The results indicated some specific
areas need to be strengthened specially those related to general capacity of veterinary services,
disease surveillance, and lab diagnosis systems.

3.6 Sub-component A5 ­ Emergency Outbreak Containment Plan provided resources for a
rapid and effective response to recurring AI outbreaks and disinfectant in 4 project provinces and
20 non-project provinces alike with total investment cost of US$630,229, of which six provinces
were supplied twice, such as Hai Duong, Bac Giang, Hai Phong, Ninh Binh, Ca Mau, and Quang
Nam. The project also supported allowance for part time local veterinarians and animal health
workers and the transport of poultry for culling with total cost of US$53,422 in 8 out of these 24
provinces. This subcomponent was assessed to very successfully for its significant contribution
to the control of outbreaks as well as enhancing safety protection for people involved in outbreak
control.

3.7 Positive Factors affecting the implementation of Component A were as follows:

    a) Strong engagement of DAH in implementing project activities. Close co-operation
        between DAH and PCU was among the most important factors to obtain successes for
        Component A.
    b) Technical support by FAO. Sub-components A1, A2, A3 and A4 were co-financed by
        an FAO TCP. FAO provided strong cooperation and technical assistance in this effort,
        which helped to improve the quality of these activities significantly.
    c) Using NGOs. Contracting NGOs (i.e., AVSF and the VWU) to implement activities in
        the field was very effective in working with smallholders and local governments. The
        activities of the VWU, with commune-based beneficiary selection for re-stocking, have
        been outstanding.

3.8 Other factors influencing the implementation of Component A include

    d) Lack experience in lab needs assessments which resulted delays in procurement of the
        necessary supplies and equipment for laboratories.
    e) Delays in procurement, approval and bidding procedures due to many reasons, which
        were mainly related to the government internal approval procedures.
    f) Pre-financing project costs sometimes was an issue with some project provinces
        affecting the pace of implementation in the field.

3.9 Component B - Poultry Subsector Rehabilitation was to support the poultry sector which
was affected seriously during the previous AI outbreak through supplying GP stock and
upgrading biosecurity conditions for GP breeding farms. Some strategic studies were also
conducted to support the future development of the poultry sector.



                                                   48

3.10 Sub-component B.1 Provision of New Breeding Stock. This subcomponent supplied
breeding stock to 12 GP breeding farms under MARD management. In planning, about 15,000
GP day-old chicks (DOCs) of poultry and waterfowl would be supplied in the first and the second
year of project. However, this plan was delayed due to AI outbreak affect. In addition, delivery of
breeding stock was only conducted after upgrading biosecurity for the GP farms had been
completed. Although delayed, more than 13,000 GP DOCs were supplied to 5 out of the 12 GP
farms by the end of the project. These breeding stock were raised in a good condition and would
reproduce high quality chicks supplying for smallholder farmers.

3.11. Sub-component B.2- Upgrading biosecurity for GP farms supported the upgrading of
biosecurity facilities of the 12 GP breeding farms under management of MARD to strengthen
disease control and prevention in the future. Under technical support of FAO, this was the first
time, the poultry production sector conducted a comprehensive study on the status of
infrastructure of the 12 GP farms and made proposals for upgrading the biosecurity facilities.
This status report was completed in September 2005. Two training courses on methods of
breeding selection were organized. Besides, 11 training courses on techniques of poultry raising
and biosecurity production were provided for 300 technical staff of breeding farms. All GP
breeding farms were upgraded with better biosecurity measures including appropriate biosecurity
equipment.

3.12. Sub-component B.3 ­ Strategic studies. Studies on compensation policies, restructure of
poultry sector, and assessment of damages caused by AI were funded by FAO. Implementation of
this sub-component was completed on schedule and provided appropriate proposals to MARD.

· The survey on poultry losses resulting from the AI epidemic was conducted by the General
    Statistics Office (GSO). The field work was carried out in close cooperation with local
    government officials. A case study report "Impacts of Avian Influenza outbreaks on poverty"
    was submitted to the PCU in August 2004.
· The study "Compensation and Related Financial Support Policy Strategy for Avian
    Influenza" was carried out between December 2004 and April 2005 by a national and
    international expert consultant, in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture of
    MARD. The study resulted in the passage of a new national directive on compensation
    (Decision 547/QD-TTg in June 2005 and Decision 309/QD-TTg in November 2005).
· The strategic poultry sector restructuring study was implemented in two phases. The DLP
    developed a project proposal for poultry sector industrialization. Subsequently, an FAO-
    funded study under the project evaluated the impacts of new or modified regulations and
    directives relating to poultry production and marketing. This and a subsequent related study
    provided valuable information for policy makers on the effects of this disease on different
    stakeholders in the production and market chain and the effects of measures implemented by
    government to control this disease. A review of legislation and regulations relating to poultry
    marketing was also conducted at the same time, supported by World Health Organization
    funding.

3.13. The parallel JSDF Grant for Smallholder Farms Restocking. The JSDF funded project
with the total budget of US$1.8 million was to support smallholder farmers who were affected by
AI in 2003 and 2004 to rehabilitate their restocking activities through improved biosecurity
measures. The PCU signed a contract to the VWU to implement the activities including: (i)
assessment of restocking needs and beneficiaries selection; (ii) organizing training for
smallholders; (iii) establishment and facilitating operations of farmer groups of poultry restocking.




                                                 49

3.14. Based on the selection criteria developed under the project by the PCU, the VWU selected
8.777 household beneficiaries for poultry restocking activities in 90 communes of 30 districts in
10 provinces. The PPMUs procured and supplied 1.2 million chicks of white ISA and Luong
Phuong breeds from one day old to 3 weeks old to the selected households (on average, each HH
received 137 chicks) for restocking. Under the project technical support and close attention of
local authorities, such as the PPMUs, provincial, district, and commune VWU, the chicks under
the project grew very well and the surviving rate, on average, reached 94%. This is a very good
result because at present average survival rate in poultry production in Vietnam is only 60%.
With this high survival rate, households got, on average, VND1.4 million of net profit in a
duration of 6-12 weeks (depending on breed and age of chicks). This is significant amount for
poor farmers and could help them stabilize their family income. In the survey conducted by WU,
70% of the households supported under the project continued their restocking activities after the
project closed.

3.15. In addition to the economic impact, the JSDF project has improved poultry production
practices of small households especially in the Mekong river delta provinces and this was an
other major impact obtained from the project. After the project ended, farmers continued to
follow the improved biosecurity chicken production models: (i) keeping their poultry in pens, no
free-range ; (ii) supplying industrial feed and clean water to poultry; (iii) poultry vaccination; (iv)
cleaning, disinfecting and keeping pens in a good sanitary condition ; and (v) reporting
immediately to local veterinarians signs of sick and dead poultry. This is a very important impact
achieved by the project which was resulted from the close cooperation of government agencies,
suppliers, and VWU at all levels.

3.16. Factors affecting the implementation of Component B were as follows:

    a) Similar to component A, some activities funded by FAO implemented quickly through
        the FAO international consultants.
    b) Due to influence of AI outbreak, the needs of parent poultry stock were decreased
        because poultry producers were reluctant to engage in poultry production and
        government banned importing breeding and ceased hatchery and raising new waterfowl.
    c) Coordination between PCU and MARD's technical departments and different
        stakeholders with varying levels of technical knowledge was a challenge. The DLP had
        not established clear guidelines and regulations for bio-security standards. The absence of
        such guidelines prevented MARD from making a timely appraisal and approval of the
        up-grading plans for the GP farms.
    d) Privatization of GP farms was also a factor affecting the implementation. Due to
        privatization, some GPs either used their own funds to procure GP stock or were not
        considered eligible to receive funds from the project or from MARD.

3.17 Component C - Public awareness and information. The overall implementation of
Component C was satisfactory, despite a slight delay resulting from the over-extended capacity at
the NAEC while it was responding to various demands from the government and other donors'
programs

3.18. Sub-component C1 - Capacity Building in Communication and Public Information.
This subcomponent provided support for training needs assessment of veterinary and livestock
extension staff at the central, provincial, district, commune and village levels; editing and writing
training materials; and carrying TOT training and training for farmers on husbandry and
veterinary aspects. The subcomponent also provided additional equipment and the training for
extension staff.


                                                   50

· In spite of initial delays, this subcomponent has made significant changes of farmers'
    awareness and behaviour in poultry production and disease control. Farmers who participated
    in restocking upgraded themselves their poultry production scale and biosecurity facilities.
    Despite the AI recurrence in 2005-5006, these farms were almost free from AI and other
    contagious diseases.
· PCU in coordination with NAEC procured vehicles and necessary equipment, such as office
    equipment to strengthen NAEC from the central to commune level. The project also provided
    training to staff at provincial, district and commune level on the use of communication
    equipment supplied by project; 19 courses were organised for 285 staffs at provincial, district
    and commune levels.
· Capacity of veterinary services, communication systems, and husbandry staffs were
    strengthened. NAEC cooperated to government's technical agencies as DAH and DLP to
    develop 4 sets of training materials for TOT training. Under this sub-component, the project
    organised 10 TOT training courses: (i) training skills and methods; (ii) technique of poultry
    raising; (iii) AI and its prevention and treatment; (iv) methods and skills of communication
    for 240 extension staff, veterinarians.
· In addition to TOT training, the project organised 10 training courses for 350 communication
    staff, health staff, members of mass organizations on AI and communication methods.
    Thanks to this, staff understood better AI as well as communication methods with local
    communities. The project also organized 40 training courses on AI and communication skills
    for 1,200 commune and village staff.
· Technical documents and training materials developed under the project were of good quality
    and used as good references. The project also produced and disseminated about 330,000
    leaflets on all types on AI, improved biosecurity poultry production, 2,000 booklets, 4,600
    posters, three documentary films, and 860 minutes of television and radio broadcasting.

3.19. Sub-component C2- Community Public Awareness and Information Campaigns. This
subcomponent supported the preparation of extension documents and implementation of TOT
training courses for veterinary and husbandry staffs and provision of communication and
information equipment to project communes.

· NAEC organised 2 training courses for 48 provincial staffs who then became trainers for
    others in the provinces.
· Under the JSDF funded project, after completion of beneficiary selection, WU coordinated
    with PPMUs to organise 302 training courses for 8,777 households on biosecurity poultry
    production techniques. 10,000 copies of training manuals on biosecurity poultry production
    techniques were printed and disseminated to participants in these training. Besides, 293
    farmer restocking groups were established and operational following the guidelines of
    MARD.
· NAEC and PCU procured and supplied communication equipment such as hand loudspeakers,
    amplifiers and others 40 project communes. The project also organised workshops to directly
    communicate with farmers on AI and poultry production methods in 1,700 communes with
    the participation of 51,000 farmers.

3.20 Sub-component C3 - Monitoring and Evaluation was initially designed to monitor and
evaluate the activities of Component C and the other components. The subcomponent was also to
enhance monitoring capacity and public awareness assessments through technical support and
training. Under guidance and leading of NAEC and PCU, PPMUs were responsible for
implementing activities at the provincial level through the network at the commune and district
levels with participation of farmers, NGOs, and private poultry production and trading agencies.



                                                   51

The project supported training on M&E methods with participation of all levels, organized mid-
term evaluation workshops, developed M&E action plans, and replicated successful models.

· Implementation of the participatory M&E methods faced difficulties because of unexpected
    reasons, such as delays in recruitment of the M&E specialist. Therefore, a comprehensive
    M&E system thorough from the central to community and farmer levels had not been
    established as initial expectation.
· Under guidance of PCU, the PCU staff in charge of project components conducted M&E
    activities and collected data through field visits and based progress reports prepared by
    provincial and local levels.
· Training courses conducted by NAEC were monitored and evaluated by PCU component
    staffs, PPMUs, facilitators and trainees. Training contents, extension training documents and
    communication documents, such as posters and leaflets were tested with local communities,
    and evaluated and revised by consultants. However, communication campaigns through
    television and radio broadcasting, bulletins, workshop in communities were not evaluated.

3.21 Factors affecting implementation of Component C were as follows:

        (a) Using the provincial extension system. The project used the existing networks of
             extension at local levels that were strong and readily available. Some of the extension
             staff were able to adapt the technical knowledge and materials provided to the
             conditions prevailing in their provinces.
        (b) Involvement of the Vietnam's Women Union. The project cooperated with the VWU
             at local levels to organize training and to form and facilitate smallholder poultry
             group operations. This was the key initiative leading to success of the public
             awareness and information campaigns sub-component. The VWU demonstrated its
             excellent skills in organizing and working with smallholders.
        (c) Coordination of the NAEC with the PCU and the DAH. The NAEC was responsible
             for preparing the integrated training plan for the whole project, but its coordination
             with the DAH and PCU needed to be strengthened. This was the main reason for the
             delays experienced at the beginning of project implementation.
        (d) Emergency nature of the project. It was difficult to establish a comprehensive M&E
             system for an emergency project given the short time for implementation and that
             most of the time the project had to operate in an emergency mode responding to
             requests from provinces.

3.22. Component D- Project Management. During project implementation, PCU has made
important changes to decentralize implementation more to PPMUs such as procurement of chicks
for farmers, procurement of equipment for provinces, and training organization. In general, the
decentralization contributed to the acceleration of project implementation. In addition, the project
also strengthened the institutional capacity and project management for all implementing units
and their staff from the central to local levels. Financial management and procurement including
auditing were satisfactory at both central and local levels.

3.23. Factors affecting to overall project implementation were as follows.

    a) AI outbreaks reoccurred in 2005, 2006, 2007 in some project provinces, which led to
        changes of the government's policy and orientation on poultry production. This also
        affected project implementation such as, delays in the provision of breed stock to GP
        farms, poultry restocking activities.



                                                   52

    b) Though the project operated in an "emergency mode", many of the government's
       administrative agencies were still slow in the approval process, which caused delays in
       responding to requests of the provinces.
    c) For some provinces, this was the first time they participated in the World Bank-financed
       projects. Therefore, many staffs of PPMUs were not familiar with the Bank's procedures.

4. Sustainability and impact

4.1 The project achieved all of its development objectives and had significantly positive
economic, social and environmental impacts.

    · The strategic studies under the project directly contributed to the development of
       government's policy and regulations and planning for the poultry sector, such as the
       compensation policy, assessment and strengthening of veterinary services, the emergency
       outbreak containment plan.
    · More than 8,700 households participated in biosecurity poultry restocking which
       generated a total profit of more than VND12 billion. The most important impact was that
       these smallholder farmers have adopted a new method of poultry production following
       bio-security models which are more sustainable and profitable, providing good quality
       and safe poultry products to the market.
    · By application of the biosecurity raising techniques, farmers changed their behavior from
       raising free-range chickens to fenced chickens, which made it easier and better for waste
       and disease management, reducing environmental pollution, and enhancing safety for the
       community and society.
    · The equipment supplied under the project to agencies such as DAH, NIVR, NVDC,
       RVCs, and others were operating effectively, contributing considerably to AI early
       detection and control.
    · Through communication campaigns under the project, farmers and people in the whole
       country were aware better of AI outbreaks and biosecurity poultry production.
    · The project significantly strengthened the capacity of relevant government agencies
       involved. For example, the NAEC gained valuable experience in managing mass
       communication campaigns; the DAH strengthened its disease information, surveillance
       and diagnostic systems; and the DLP gained considerable insight into issues relating to
       the restructuring of the poultry sub-sector and in bio-security issues, including a greater
       awareness of the social and economic effects of various control measures. Provincial and
       district veterinary services have improved their linkages with CAHWs and NGOs (such
       as the VWU).
    · The project also strengthened the project management capacity of the PCU and the
       overall capacity of the government to address, in an integrated and multi-sectoral manner,
       animal disease emergencies. This capacity will be further strengthened under the VAHIP.
    · Most poultry restocking activities were undertaken by women. Therefore, the success of
       the project contributed directly to the generation of income for women and children. The
       project impact contributed to risk reduction for these vulnerable groups, who were among
       the poorest in Vietnam and most affected by AI compared to others.

5. Performance ratings




                                                53

5.1. Overall rating

Project outcome                                                            Satisfactorily achieved
Risk                                                                             Significant
World Bank Performance                                                         Satisfactorily
Government Performance                                                         Satisfactorily

5.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

World Bank                              Rating                   Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry                       Satisfactory   Government                          Highly Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision                 Highly         Implementing Agency                     Satisfactory
                                      Satisfactory
Overall Bank Performance               Satisfactory   Overall Borrower Performance            Satisfactory


6. Lesson learnt from project implementation

         1. Decentralization arrangements: This is a priority, which should be done right from
            the beginning of project implementation. Delays mostly were due to the process of
            review and approval of procurement at the central level. Decentralization will help
            provinces more active in their own plan development and implementation. This is
            especially important for emergency operations.
         2. Cooperation among implementing agencies: Implementing agencies need to
            coordinate more closely with each other in more effective manner.
         3. Capacity strenthening: More training is needed to strenthend the capacity of project
            staff from the central to local levels.
         4. Linkage between the project with social organisations: the restocking activities
            facilitated by the VWU was very successful and highly appreciated. It should be
            continued in future projects.
         5. Project M&E: the Project M&E needs to be conducted right from the project
            commencing.

7. Conclusion

7.1. The AIERP implementation results have helped Vietnam strengthen the capacity of HPAI
diagnosis and surveillance, better planned for restructuring of the poultry production sector,
strengthen poultry sector infrastructure to cope better with serious disease outbreaks, and
safeguard human health by improving public awareness and information. The project obtained all
of its development objectives. In addition, the project also expanded its scope to support mass
vaccination campaigns, which were very successful in prevention of AI. The project's successes
contributed to the control of AI outbreaks, reducing losses for the poultry sector and risks for
public health, and improving the livehood for smallholder farmers who derive their significant
income from poultry production.

7.2 The project also strengthened the capacity of the governemt's administrative systems,
contributing to better understanding of AI control measures. Vietnam is considered as a sucessful
case in AI ccntrol by the international community and much of it was contributed by the project,
by the effectiveness of mass vaccination programs, and by the efforts of the government in
outbreak prevention and control.



                                                 54

 ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF CO-FINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

8.1. Overall, FAO highly appreciated the project outcomes and considered AIERP as a model for
other World Bank AI projects to follow.

8.2. Throughout the development and implementation of the AIERP there was close collaboration
between the World Bank office in Viet Nam and the FAO HPAI control programme. FAO highly
valued the strong working relations between FAO, as a lead technical agency on avian influenza,
and the World Bank, which were established during AIERP implementation. This was
undoubtedly beneficial to Viet Nam's national programme since it created synergy and
consistency and minimised duplication of effort. It also allowed the relatively scarce international
technical expertise to be leveraged across the two programmes. The experience of collaboration
gained during this project has carried through to the formulation of the follow-on VAHIP project.
The project had a number of pioneering elements: it was promoted cross-departmental
collaboration within MARD; it was an early entrant into the field on compensation policy; it
implemented a restocking project (with JSDF financing); and it engaged in dialogue with the
government on restructuring.

8.3. The AIERP was the first World Bank project on avian influenza globally. FAO played a key
role in developing, funding and conducting activities under this project and in subsequent
management of the project by providing consultants to assist undertaking supervision missions.
The AIERP was developed at the height of the H5N1 avian influenza crisis in Vietnam and
cooperation with FAO allowed the program to be developed without duplicating other emergency
activities conducted by FAO in Vietnam. Under AIERP, FAO provided specific support to the
animal health activities including development of the avian influenza emergency plan, a self
assessment of veterinary services, support for Vietnam in developing and implementing their
mass vaccination campaign, provision of epidemiological analysis and support for the
Vietnamese animal health authorities including training in data management and provision of
consultants for biosecurity upgrades to grandparent farms. All of these activities resulted in
decisions being taken by the government of Vietnam that resulted in enhanced control and
prevention of avian influenza.

8.4. Specific achievements involving FAO included:

· Assistance in development of the national vaccination strategy: In 2005, taking on board
    advice provided by FAO consultants and others, the Vietnamese government launched an
    extremely ambitious blanket vaccination campaign aimed at reducing the prevalence of
    infection and the likelihood of exposure of humans to H5N1 HPAI virus. This was designed
    at a time when Vietnam had recorded the most human cases of H5N1 avian influenza. This
    included provision of advice on the extent and timing of the vaccination program and
    subsequent modifications to the program. This advice was highly valued by DAH and MARD
    and helped to form the basis of the national vaccination policy.
· Assistance in design of post-vaccination surveillance strategies: AIERP played a key role in
    the development of the overall emergency and longer term control and preventive plans for
    AI and the post-vaccination surveillance program. FAO consultants were deployed within
    and outside of AIERP providing advice on appropriate surveillance strategies. This resulted
    in collection of samples from poultry from all vaccinated provinces, allowing some
    comparisons of the response to the first rounds of vaccination.
· Strengthening veterinary laboratories, understanding of epidemiology and monitoring of virus
    circulation: AIERP was a major contributor of laboratory equipment and training and played


                                                55

    a key role in coordinating and standardizing laboratory testing for avian influenza. The
    enhanced laboratory capacity allowed the turnaround time on testing of diagnostic specimens
    to be reduced. It also allowed the conduct of a number of specific surveillance studies
    including duck studies in 2006, that demonstrated infection was persisting in unvaccinated
    ducks and muscovy ducks despite the absence of outbreaks of disease, which assisted in
    enhancing understanding of the epidemiology of the disease.
· Disease reporting: AIERP provided support for the network of community animal health
    workers at the commune level facilitating communication between District and commune
    staff and in the process enhancing the timeliness and quality of disease reports. This process
    is on-going and will be monitored in more detail under VAHIP. Nevertheless it was seen as
    an extremely important element in the overall control strategy ­ early reporting of disease in
    new locations is essential if the disease is to be contained and its epidemiology fully
    understood.

8.5 Three examples are used to illustrate elements of AIERP's work in socio-economics and
production:

8.6 Compensation: The project was an early entrant into the field on compensation policy, where
and FAO technical team worked with national counterparts using AIERP funding to produce a
compensation strategy as far back as 2005, and this has resulted in two subsequent changes in
Viet Nam's compensation programme.

8.7 The JSDF restocking project was conceived in order to ensure that small scale producers
who had suffered bad losses from HPAI stamping out and had not been compensated by the
government could be assisted to restart poultry production. Livestock restocking projects are
notoriously difficult to implement, and this one was implemented during recurring HPAI
outbreaks at a time when the government was committed to modernising the poultry sector - with
a proposal for restructuring that proposed a considerable reduction in the number of smallholders
keeping poultry. The project was designed not only to provide small scale farmers with birds but
to include compulsory training in safer poultry keeping so that the chance of survival of the birds
was enhanced. A number of institutional stakeholders were involved. Identifying beneficiaries,
forming them into groups for training and arranging delivery dates for training and birds was the
responsibility of the Viet Nam Women's Union working in partnership with commune members.

8.8 A full evaluation of the project has not been completed, but observations of the supervision
mission members and preliminary evaluation suggest the following:

· Where the project succeeded in its original objectives:
    o A large number of farm families who had previously been small flock owners were
        provided with healthy birds, which they kept at a high rate of survival until they sold
        them at a profit.
    o The restocked households appreciated the training that they received, probably as much
        as the birds.
    o Many of the restocked households are still keeping poultry.

· Unexpected benefits:
    o    The institutional learning curve, while at times extremely painful, was an unexpected
        benefit.
    o Response to emergencies is most easily done by a command and control process using
        rather simple organisational structures and simple processes. In Viet Nam at the time the
        project was initiated this was not possible, since there was no organisation that had the


                                                  56

     mandate and staff to carry out the entire process. It was therefore necessary to organise a
     coalition of agencies that do not easily work together at the best of times, and certainly
     not under emergency conditions, and to work with them through an evolving
     epidemiological situation and policy environment.
  o The coalition consisted of the government veterinary service (to provide technical
     backstopping), the government's livestock production department (for supply of birds and
     more technical backstopping), with an NGO (VSF, to provide training based on
     guidelines agreed by the government) and a quasi-government agency (the VWU to
     organise activities at commune level). The government agencies and the others had a
     rather different culture and way of working, and were specialised in working at different
     levels. There was at the time no established process for one agency to take the lead in co-
     ordinating the work of itself and others, and so it took a long time to set up the process of
     developing a timetable and work plan and co-ordinating several parallel efforts that
     needed to be synchronised. However, over time, the participating agencies gained
     experience, their communication improved and so did the management of the project. It
     is particularly interesting that the first public discussion of the institutional learning was
     initiated not by the international community but by the VWU, presenting a paper on the
     restocking project at a conference in Hanoi in March 2007.

· Where the project was less successful:
  o Based on preliminary evaluation, it seems that the project was relatively unsuccessful in
     re-establishing very small flocks to those who had previously chosen to keep birds in this
     way for economic reasons. The birds provided were for the most part commercial rather
     than traditional breeds (it proved very difficult to find suppliers for the traditional breeds
     that could be inspected and audited) and were enclosed and fed until sale. They made a
     profit for their owners but did not re-establish the previous system.
  o Neither did this prove to be the start of a development process for upgrading backyard
     flocks towards more biosecure and commercial systems in a sustainable manner. Many of
     the farmers who received upgraded birds promptly reverted to previous practices once
     they had sold them - either because they could not find the same birds again with the
     suppliers they normally used, or because they preferred a lower-input, lower-output
     production system.

· Restructuring
 o With concerns about biosecurity of the sector, and following a long-held intention to
     modernize, MARD proposed a restructuring plan foe the poultry sector that would
     involve a number of quite radical changes including zoning of poultry production and
     was expected, over a number of years, to greatly reduce the number of small scale flocks
     in the country. The intention was that much of the investment would come from the
     private sector.
  o After many discussions with MARD staff, it was decided that AIERP would fund a study
     to explore the potential social and environmental impacts of restructuring, and this was
     done in 2006. FAO technical staff and consultants worked with Vietnamese consultants
     to produce a report that highlighted, among other things, the need to use a risk-based
     approach to restructuring so that different areas might need different approaches. It also
     became evident that there were a umber of barriers to implementing such a plan,
     including the land registration system and the caution in the financial sector to finance
     investments in poultry enterprises.
  o Viet Nam was the first countries in the developing world to conduct such a study, on a
     topic that is gaining increasing momentum within HPAI control.



                                                57

8.9. Overall, AIERP has provided Vietnam with enhanced laboratory capacity, enhanced disease
reporting capacity, improved biosecurity in grandparent farms run by the government, a greater
understanding of the complex issues relating to structural change and restructuring and a better
understanding of the communication needs relating to avian influenza for farmers. These
achievements have been dwarfed by the other flow-on effects, including enhanced collaboration
between the World Bank and FAO, the production of the Vietnam integrated strategy for control
and prevention of avian influenza and the use of the Vietnam model for development of other
similar projects in other countries.




                                               58

                      ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project ­ Technical Annex
Project Implementation Manual
Development Credit Agreement
Aide Memoires
Project Correspondence
Consultant Reports: "Japan Social Development Fund Smallholder Poultry Restocking Project -
Project Evaluation Report" ­ December 17, 2007
VIETNAM: Integrated National Plan for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
Influenza Preparedness and Response, 2006 ­ 2008. December 23, 2005.
Integrated National Operational Program for Avian and Human Influenza 2006-2010 (the "Green
Book"), May 2006.




                                             59

