v i         /
Report No. 1710a-PNG
Papua New Guinea
Appraisal of a                                                                        FILE COPY
Second Port Project
April 3, 1978
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit        =           Kina (K)
US$1                             K 0.72
K 1                              US$1.38
K 1 million          =           US$1,380,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                        British/US Equivalent
1 meter                         =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer                     =   0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)      -   0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (ton)              =   2,204 lbs or 1.1023 short ton
1 revenue ton                   =   approx. 0.6 ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
DWS     -   Department of Works and Supply
GNP     -   Gross National Product
LWOST   -   Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
MOT     -   Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation
PNG     -   Papua New Guinea
PNGHB   -   Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
FISCAL YEAR
July 1     -  June 30 (until December 31, 1977)
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1978)
N.B. All water depths given in this report are below LWOST.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -ji
1.    INTRODUCTION  .                                              .   . .    1
2.    BACKGROUND  ....  .        .  .  .    . .   .....  .. .... . . .  .      2
A.  Economic Setting  ....  .        .    . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .  2
B.  The Transport Sector  . . . . ......................... .           2
C.  Transport Administration, Planning and Coordination  . .            4
3.    PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS. . . . . . . .    5
A.  Existing Facilities ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
B.  Organization, Finances and Staffing . . . . . . . . . . .    6
C.  Cargo Handling Operations at Port Moresby  . . . . . . .            7
4.    THE PROJECT ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  9
A.  The Capital Investment Program .             . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
B. The Project .                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
C.  Project Cost Estimates  ...  .        .    . .....  .   .  .  .  .    .   10
D. Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
E.  Engineering Services and Technical Assistance . . . . . .   11
F.  Procurement . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
G.  Project Execution ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    11
H.  Ecology ....  .       .  .  .  .  .   * .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
J.  Employment .  . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION .  . . . . . . .. . . . . . .   12
A. General                   ..12
B. Traffic Forecast            ...                                     13
C.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
D.  Economic Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks . . . . .   15
6.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   15
A.  General .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .   15
B.  Rates and Charges ....  .        .  .    . ......  .    .  .  .  .   .   15
C.  Past Earnings and Current Financial Position  ...  .          .    .   15
This report was prepared by Messrs. F. Higginbottom (Engineer), R. Roberts
(Economist) and L. Seigel (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
D.  Future Earnings and Financial Position  . . . . . . . . .    16
E.  Cash Position and Financial Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
F.  Port Moresby:  Past and Future Earnings . . . . . . . . .    19
G.  Audilting and Insurance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
7. AGREEMENT'S REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
ANNEXES
1. Works Financed Under Credit 326-PNG
2.  Papua New Guinea Harbours Board Outstanding Leases
3.  Ports Administered by the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
4.  Training and Technical Assistance
5. Terminal Operating Company Contract
6. Details of the Project
7.  EconomiLc Benefits
8. Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
TABLES
1. Port Moresby - Operational Performance Indicators
2. PNGHB Capital Investment Program (1978-82)
3. Detailed Cost Estimates
4. Estimat:ed Annual Project Expenditure
5. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
6. Actual and Forecast Traffic - All PNGHB Ports
7. Actual and Forecast Traffic - Port Moresby
8. EconomiLc Costs and Benefits
9. PNGHB T'ariffs: Current and Recommended
10. PNGHB Income Accounts: 1974-82
11. PNGHB Balance Sheets: 1974-82
12. PNGHB Cash Flow Data: 1978-82
13.  PNGHB Debt Service
14.  Port Moresby Income Accounts:  1976-82
CHART
World Bank No. 17857, Berthage/Wharfage Combinations Yielding 7% Return
World Bank No. 18839, Construction Schedule
MAP
IBRD 13007



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Port Moresby, the capital city of Papua New Guinea (PNG), handles
virtually the whole of southern Papua's external trade, in addition to a
substantial volume of coastal traffic. About 50% of the port's overseas
traffic consists of trade with Australia, and the shipping lines carrying this
trade have converted their operations from palletized general cargo to con-
tainers. The increased efficiencies of container shipping will be largely
lost unless Port Moresby makes adequate provision for the handling of con-
tainers. In addition, ocean freight rates to and from Port Moresby will
ultimately rise without better container facilities in the port.
ii.       The Government of PNG has asked the Bank and the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (the Kuwait Fund) to assist in financing a project
for a 125 m berth, and backup facilities to handle containers at Port Moresby;
improved access to the port, and pilot launches would also be provided. The
proposed project, which would also include a coastal berth at the port of
Samarai (off the coast of southern Papua), to replace the existing dilap-
idated wharf, is based on studies by Maunsell and Partners Pty. Ltd.
(Australia), and Port Operations Consultants (U.K.); the project forms a
major part of the investment program of the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
(PNGHB) for the next five years.
iii.      The proposed project would be implemented, with consultant assis-
tance, by PNGHB. It is a statutory corporation with adequate powers to
conduct its affairs and to enter into contracts and agreements, and has
autonomy in day-to-day matters, subject to the usual policy directives of the
Minister of Transport. It assumed operational responsibility for the prin-
cipal ports in July 1967 and financial responsibility on January 1, 1968; it
became the sole pilotage authority in PNG on January 1, 1977. PNGHB's
revenues in recent years have not kept pace with increased operating costs
and the return on its net fixed assets in use has been consistently less than
the 8% required by the Project Agreement for the First Port Project. A
tariff increase in late 1976 has improved the financial position in 1977, but
further tariff increases will be required.
iv.       The total project cost is estimated, on the basis of detailed
designs, at US$10.5 million with a foreign exchange component of US$7.0 mil-
lion equivalent, which would be financed by the proposed loan and a Kuwait
Fund loan.
v.        Contracts for construction and procurement would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Retroactive financing of foreign exchange expenditures on one of
the pilot launches would be required, amounting to about US$100,000.



- ii -
vi.       The proposed project would furnish adequate and efficient facil-
ities for handling containers at Port Moresby. The new berth would also free
space at the existing international wharf for use by coastal shipping, and
thereby avoid the need for constructing a replacement for the present coastal
wharf, which is in very poor condition. The project would reduce transport
costs by: (a) reducing ship-waiting and turnaround time in the port; (b)
eliminating the present movement of containers between the Main Wharf and the
container freiglat station; (c) avoiding the transfer of goods to bonded
storage outside the port which is necessary at present in order to keep the
transit sheds clear; and (d) reducing cargo handling costs. These benefits
yield a return of about 14% on the proposed project, which is the least cost
alternative.
vii.      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$3.5 million equivalent to the Government of Papua New Guinea for a term
of 20 years including a five-year grace period. The Kuwait Fund would also
provide a loan of US$3.5 million equivalent. The Government would relend
both loans to PNGHB at the Bank's interest rate for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of four years.
March 1978



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea has asked the Bank to help
finance a Second Port Project consisting of: (a) at Port Moresby, a 125 m
berth, built to handle containers, with a 1.6 ha extension of the filled area
provided under Credit 326-PNG and a 3,300 sq m extension of the existing
shed; improvements to the access road, and pilotage launches; (b) at Samarai
(located on an island off the coast of southern Papua), a 30 m coastal berth
with about 0.1 ha of reclaimed land; and (c) engineering services for detailed
design and supervision of the foregoing construction, together with technical
assistance and training.  The project, together with work already completed
under Credit 326-PNG, would provide adequate and efficient facilities for
handling developing container traffic at Port Moresby; and it would provide
adequate coastal facilities at Samarai to replace the present dilapidated and
unsafe wharf.
1.02      The Bank Group's assistance in the transport sector has included
acting as executing agency for the UNDP-financed Transport Survey of 1968-69;
and financing for the First Highway Project (Credit 204/Loan 693-PNG) in
1970, which provided US$9 million for construction and improvement of
150 km of the Highlands Highway. It also included the First Port Project
(Credit 326-PNG) in 1972, which provided US$9.2 million for improvements
at the ports of Kieta, Lae and Port Moresby and for a new overseas port at
Alotau (Annex 1). The Second Highway Project (Credit 677-PNG) in early 1977,
provided US$19 million for further improvement of the Highlands Highway to an
all-weather standard. Work on the First Highway Project was satisfactorily
completed in 1973, but with a 90% cost overrun due mainly to higher than
expected bid prices.
1.03      Work on the First Port Project was satisfactorily completed at
the end of 1976, except for a barge ramp at Alotau, which has had to be
redesigned, and additional work at Kieta and Port Moresby to which the
Association agreed following substantial completion of the original works
at a significant cost saving. This additional work, which was completed
in July 1977, included reclamation of additional land at Port Moresby to
increase the land available for stacking the growing number of containers,
pending completion of the proposed project. PNGHB's performance has been
satisfactory: it managed the project well and has improved its administra-
tive and financial procedures since 1972. However, it has not met the full
requirements of the Project Agreement for Credit 326-PNG in regard to cost-
based tariffs (para 3.08) and has not achieved the required 8% rate of
return on net fixed assets (para 6.03) because revenues have not kept pace
with increased operating costs.
1.04      This project was appraised in March 1977 by a mission comprising
F. Higginbottom (Engineer), R. Roberts (Economist) and L. Seigel (Financial
Analyst) and is based upon their findings and studies by Maunsell and Partners
(Australia), and Port Operations Consultants (U.K.), together with data
supplied by Papua New Guinea Harbours Board (PNGHB). Subsequently, it was
necessary to undertake a post appraisal in January 1977 as the Government
wished to review the location of the next stage of port development (para 4.01).
Following a study carried out by consultants, the Government decided not to
change the location which would have affected the design and cost of the
proposed project.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Papua New Guinea (PNG) became independent from Australia in
September 1975.. Physically, PNG comprises the eastern half of the island of
New Guinea (the mainland) and some 600 smaller islands, including those of
New Britain, New Ireland and Bougainville.  PNG has a land area of about
477,000 sq km (about the same size as Spain) spread over some 2,000,000 sq km
oi the Western Pacific Ocean. The indigenous population numbers about 2.8 mil-
lion and is growing at 2.8% p.a.  The non-indigenous population (largely from
Australia) in 1975 numbered about 40,000 persons, which is a decrease from
54,000 in 1971. Since independence, the rate of decrease in the expatriate
population is gradually slowing.
2.02      The country is at an early stage of development, with an economy
based on primary production.  The non-monetized sector, which provides the
indigenous population with most of its necessities, accounts for about
one-third of the Gross National Product (GNP) and is growing at an estimated
rate of less than 1% p.a. The monetized sector has been growing at more than
10% p.a. in real terms over the last 10 years. The economy is heavily
dependent on external trade; exports in 1975/76 were valued at about K 357
million, about one-half of which was accounted for by copper concentrate
exported from Bougainville. The Government estimates that exports in 1976/77
reached some K 490 million with again one-half comprising copper concentrates.
The decrease iin world copper prices in recent years has adversely affected
the trade balaace which, in 1975 and early 1976, was in deficit; since
April 1976, however, it has shown some surplus.  Other export commodities
are coffee, cocoa beans and copra.
B. The Transport Sector
(a) General
2.03      The terrain of PNG's mainland is unfavorable for development of
land transport inland from the ports. Generally, the coastal plain is narrow
and terminates in formidable mountain ranges; even where the plain extends
some distance inland, as in the southwestern part of the mainland, it tends
to be intersected by major rivers and to be low-lying and swampy. Histori-
cally, the centers of economic activity in PNG, such as Port Moresby (Papua),
Lae and Madang (New Guinea), and Rabaul (New Britain), were no more than
economic enclaves supplied by sea and, later, also by air, and little develop-
ment took place in the interior of the country. In the last few decades,
the economic potential of the interior, notably that of the Central Highlands
in the west-central part of the mainland, has begun to be developed, initially
supported almost entirely by air transport. Now, the Highlands Highway,
which was partly financed by the Bank and IDA (Loan 693, Credit 204 and
Credit 677), runs 600 km from Lae into the Central Highlands. It provides
access to the sea for the estimated one million people living there, and is
contributing to the rapid development of cash crops, notably coffee and tea.



- 3-
(b) Highway Transport
2.04      The road system, though expanded considerably since World War II,
is still comparatively limited considering the size of the country. It is
estimated that the system totalled about 18,300 km in 1975, representing a
nine-fold increase during the post-war period. The vehicle fleet, more than
half of which consists of motor cars and motorcycles, has increased by about
12% p.a. since 1963 and now numbers nearly 40,000.
(c) Civil Aviation
2.05      Air transport is a major mode of domestic and international passen-
ger travel, and increased steadily by about 10% p.a. between 1964 and 1974.
Freight is also moved by air, particularly to the more isolated areas, but
its importance has declined substantially in recent years with expansion of
the road system. Port Moresby has the only international airport; however, a
new airport was opened in 1977 near Lae, financed in part by the Australian
Government, which may become a second international airport. PNG is ade-
quately served by international flights from Australia, Hong Kong, the
Philippines and Japan; internally, scheduled services are provided by Air
Niugini (84% Government owned) which has a low aircraft utilization rate due
to restriction of most flights to daylight hours.
(d) Ports and Shipping
2.06      Most of PNG's overseas trade is handled by nine main ports:
Port Moresby, Lae, Madang, and Wewak on the mainland; and Rabaul, Samarai,/l
Kavieng, Kieta and Kimbe on other islands. In addition, Oro Bay, on the
mainland, handles a significant volume of coastal traffic. These ten ports,
together with six smaller ports, are administered by PNGHB and handled a
total of 1.3 million revenue tons in 1975-76, of which Port Moresby's
traffic was 0.3 million tons. The Government, under the Harbours Board
Act, may, at any time, direct PNGHB to assume control of additional ports.
Development of the ports of Port Moresby, Lae, Kieta and Alotau (one of the
six smaller ports) has been under way since 1972, partly financed by Credit
326-PNG (Annex 1). All work was completed in 1976 except for agreed addi-
tions to the works at Kieta and Port Moresby which were completed in July
1977, and a barge ramp at Alotau.
2.07      Overseas shipping services are provided by ten foreign shipping
lines. Coastal and inter-island services are provided by about 240
Government-licensed and locally-owned small vessels greater than 10 m in
length. The Government is contemplating a substantial investment, through
the newly established PNG Shipping Corporation, in specially designed coastal
ships for main port services and is studying, with Norwegian assistance, the
feasibility of regularly scheduled services between those ports. At present,
/1 lt is expected that Samarai's overseas traffic will be assumed by Alotau
following the dismantling of Samarai's present dilapidated overseas wharf
and the replacement of its coastal wharf (para 4.02).



- 4 -
a --ernFer:-owned fleet of 87 small vessels provides passenger services to
remote communities and carries a small amount of cargo.  A five-year program
for replacement of old vessels in this fleet is expected to commence in FY78.
The Bank is discussing with the Government a possible project for improving
coastal shipping operations.
C. Transport Administration, Planning and Coordination
2.08      The transport sector is administered by the Ministry of Transport
and Civil Aviation (MOT); its main functions are:
(i)  to define and develop a national transport network;
(ii) to develop national policy for land, sea and air transport;
(iii) to undertake necessary economic studies and surveys related
to the national transport network;
(iv) to prepare, evaluate and revise, as necessary, the capital and
recurrent expenditure plans for the national transport net-
work; and
(v)  to administer the regulations for national transport services.
The Provincial Governments are expected to assume increased responsibility
in respect of the transport network, particularly roads, lying outside the
national network.
2.09      MOT prepares plans for national roads in conjunction with the Depart-
ment of Works and Supply (DWS), which is responsible, inter-alia, for construc-
tion and maintenance of national roads. Provincial roads are constructed by
the Provinces, who maintain them with the assistance of DWS. MOT undertakes
the economic evaluation of projects and DWS provides cost data and implementa-
tion expertise. As regards ports, investment proposals prepared by PNGHB are
reviewed with MOT and implemented under PNGHB's supervision.
2.10      MOT is preparing a policy statement for overall transport develop-
ment, and a National Transport Plan, providing a phased program for transport
investment. A key transport investment problem is the high and increasing
cost of highway maintenance; if the present trend continues, highway mainte-
nance, which is particularly heavy on unsurfaced roads in mountainous terrain,
will absorb, by 1982, most of the funds available for highway investment;
accordingly, the Government plans a five-year program of road surfacing,
tied into the road maintenance program, estimated to cost US$12.5 million,
which the Bank may assist in financing. Problems of intermodal coordination
include the role of air transport in the face of continuing development of
road transport, and the relative economic merits of coastal shipping versus
overland or air transport. A trans-island highway from Port Moresby to Lae
is under consideration by the Government; however, it is likely to be diffi-
cult to justify in view of the heavy capital cost and the availability of
alternative modes.



- 5 -
3. PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS
A. Existing Facilities
3.01      The main port installation is located in a well protected deep-
water bay and is adjacent to the center of Port Moresby (Map 13007). Its
berthing facility is an 18.2 m wide T-head jetty (the Main Wharf) with an
outer berth for overseas traffic 213 m long (7.6 m depth alongside /1)
and inner berths 118 m long (4.6 m depth alongside) and 67 m long (3.8 m
depth alongside). The approach from shore is 80 m long by 11 m wide. The
wharf's design load is 2.4 ton/sq m, too low for the efficient handling of
containers, and its condition is such that it requires heavy maintenance,
which will be further increased when substantial container traffic is handled.
Its life is estimated to be no more than 10 years whatever the traffic.
Total available land area at the shore end of the approach is some 2 ha which
accommodates two closed storage sheds and one open shed leaving open storage
space of only 1 ha.
3.02      There is also a coastal berth (the APC Wharf) 24 m long by 12 m
wide connected to shore by a 67 m long by 5 m wide approach, located some
250 m east of the main port. It has a barge ramp and a small open storage
area of about 0.1 ha adjacent. The wharf, which has reached the end of its
useful life for cargo handling, is in bad structural condition; it can accept
nothing heavier than light forklift trucks, and even these must operate very
slowly due to the open timber deck. The condition of the wharf makes the
berthing of the larger coastal ships difficult and potentially hazardous to
the wharf's structure. PNGHB has agreed to close the APC Wharf to cargo
ships over 10 m length when the proposed project is completed (para 5.11)
and, thereafter, coastal vessels will be handled at the Main Wharf. Between
the APC Wharf and the main port there are three privately-owned finger piers.
Petroleum products are handled at anchorages located in the upper harbor and
connected to shore by pipelines.
3.03      No land is available for expansion in the area of the Main Wharf
and, therefore, the First Port Project provided open storage in the area
identified for long-term port development about 1/2 km east of the Main Wharf
by reclaiming 1.3 ha land with a shed for general cargo (Existing Shed Area,
Map 13007). Subsequently, the Association agreed to the reclamation under
Credit 326-PNG, of an additional 1.3 ha adjacent to this area to increase the
land available for stacking the growing number of containers, pending comple-
tion of the proposed project, the original shed being used as a container
freight station. PNGHB's headquarters is located alongside this land and
has a small boat berth (pilotage) adjacent.
3.04      The Government has not yet granted leases to PNGHB covering all the
present port area and all the improvements at other ports under PNGHB juris-
diction, notwithstanding a requirement to do so contained in the Credit
/1 All depths are at Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides (LWOST). Tidal range
is 1.7 m spring tides and 0.5 m neap tides.



Agreement of Credit 326-PNG (Section 3.02). The absence of land records and
high staff turnover in the Department of Lands are the chief causes of delay.
The current position is shown in Annex 2. A new law will make possible the
granting of the necessary leases and appropriate arrangements are being made.
The Government lhas agreed that a lease covering the area of the proposed
project will be granted to PNGHB not later than January 1, 1979 and has
indicated that the processing of PNGHB's other outstanding leases will now
proceed expeditiously.
B. Organization, Finances and Staffing
Organization
3.05      PNGHB, a body corporate capable of acquiring and disposing of real
and personal property, was created by the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
Ordinance 1963. It consists of a Chairman and six members, appointed by the
Minister of Transport. The functions of the Board are comprehensive and it
has adequate powers to perform these functions and to enter into contracts
and agreements as necessary.  PNGHB has made By-laws for the control, regula-
tion and management of the ports for which it is responsible. It assumed
operational responsibility for the principal ports in July 1967 and financial
responsibility on January 1, 1968. It became the sole pilotage authority
in PNG on January 1, 1977. The 16 ports under PNGHB control are shown in
Annex 3.
3.06      PNGHB's day-to-day operations are controlled by the General Manager,
Secretary/Chief Accountant, Chief Engineer and Superintendent of Pilotage.
Its autonomy in day-to-day matters is subject to policy directives given by
the Minister of Transport. Such a provision is normal and necessary to the
responsible Minister, and has been exercised in a satisfactory manner.
3.07      Each PNGHB port has a Port Advisory Committee of five to nine
appointed members representing port users and labor interests. The Committee
is empowered to make local rules under the Ordinance and By-laws on matters
relating to port operations, subject to PNGHB approval.
Finances
AccouLnting and Costing Systems
3.08      Over the past two years, PNGHB has introduced a system of respon-
sibility accounting which provides relevant statistical data, revenue and
expense information on a port-by-port basis within three weeks of the end of
each four-week accounting period. The system represents a substantial
improvement over the methods employed in the past. It is simple, workable
and capable of easy assimilation by indigenous staff, and it provides an
adequate information base for proper management of PNGHB. However, costing of
individual port services and facilities, such as is required by Section 4.04
(b) of the Pro-ject Agreement for Credit 326-PNG, has to be carried out as a
special exercise, and has not yet been undertaken. For this reason, PNGHB is
not in compliance with Section 4.04 (c)(iii) of the Project Agreement, which



- 7 -
requires dues and rates to be cost-based. As a necessary first step toward
meeting its obligations under this section of the Project Agreement, PNGHB
has agreed to undertake by December 31, 1978, a costing study satisfactory
to the Bank, with consultant assistance if necessary (Annex 4), which will
provide the costs of its various services and facilities at each of its main
ports and will implement the findings of the study. Subsequently, the costs
will be reviewed annually in relation to the revenues derived from each of
the services. PNGHB has also reaffirmed the basis of its tariff of dues and
rates as set forth in Section 4.04 (c).
Asset Value
3.09      Late in 1974, PNGHB commissioned consultants to carry out a com-
plete revaluation of its operating assets. The assets were revalued as of
October 1974 and again twice subsequently through the application of an
indexing formula derived by the consultants. These valuations, which are
reasonable, are used in the current appraisal report.
Staffing
3.10      Headquarters management comprises 13 officers, including two works
officers located at out-ports. Of these, an Assistant Chief Engineer and two
accountants are indigenous, but have little experience. The operational
management at the 16 ports comprises 42 officers from Port Manager to Assistant
Wharf Superintendent and all are indigenous except four Port Managers. There
are, in addition, seven indigenous staff currently on training courses overseas
or in local technical colleges (Annex 4), and PNGHB's training school antici-
pates training a further 36 staff for operational positions in the next two
years. Substantial losses of trained local staff to other organizations has
been experienced over the past few years due to the general shortage of
trained indigenous staff in the country. It is inevitable in the current
stage of PNG's development that such losses will continue for some time. The
training program included in the project will continue to provide replace-
ments for these losses.
3.11      In line with Government policy, PNGHB is endeavoring to increase
the number of its indigenous officers, and it is expected that a number of
the more senior positions will be filled by indigenous staff over the next
few years. However, the experience of such staff will inevitably be limited,
especially in management and in the fields of accounting and engineering.
Thus, it may be necessary to maintain a strong expatriate presence at senior
management levels for some time.  PNGHB has agreed that it will retain suffi-
cient competent staff and that, in the case of the Chief Financial Officer
and Chief Engineer, their qualifications and experience will be acceptable to
the Bank. Funds are included in the project for the training of indigenous
staff in the fields of engineering and accounting and for consultancy ser-
vices (Annex 4).
C. Cargo Handling Operations at Port Moresby
3.12      Cargo handling at Port Moresby, from ship's hold to consignee's
truck is performed by four private stevedoring companies, licensed by PNGHB



- 8 -
and selected by the shipping companies.  These companies supply all necessary
equipment and labor, and are efficient. The operations of the companies are
controlled by PNGHB through their Port Manager, Assistant Port Manager, and
through three Wharf Superintendents, permanently located in the port area,
who allocate berths and storage space.  Cargo from each ship has a separate
rotation number for ease of identification, which is used for all billing
and documentation.  A priority berthing system is operated for unitized and
containerized cargo ships, in accordance with regulations laid down by PNGHB.
3.13      Cargo movements over the Main Wharf cover three major categories -
palletized overseas (about 59% of overseas), non-palletized overseas (41% of
overseas) and coastal (25% of total port traffic). The following satisfac-
tcry handling rates are achieved:  palletized cargo about 27 tons/gross
gang hour, and non-palletized about 12 tons/gross gang hour (Table 1). How-
ever, productivity is reduced if more than one ship is alongside, due to
the restricted space available at the Main Wharf and the fact that not all
hatches can be worked. PNGHB will endeavor to improve these performance
figures, and has indicated that it expects to achieve, by 1980, the cargo
handling rates indicated in Table 1. The handling rates of coastal cargo at
the APC Wharf are very much less (about 4 tons/gross gang hour) because the
wtharf's conditiLon prevents the use of mobile cranes and hinders the operation
of forklift trucks, and because of the low capacity of cargo derricks on
many coastal ships. All cargo is moved from the hold by ship's gear, except
that mobile cranes are available, on request, for coasters at the Main Wharf.
3.14      The provision of the additional shed and storage space under
Credit 326-PNG has improved operations at the Main Wharf and permitted
more orderly stacking, sorting and delivery of cargo, as well as providing
space for the handling of vehicle imports and containers. However, the
additional shed and storage area is not adequate to handle the expected
future volume of containers.
3.15      There are about 160 personnel permanently employed by the stevedore
companies and an additional 220 registered port employees who are allocated
daily to make up the required labor force. Allocation is from a labor
roster, those presenting themselves for employment but not employed on a
particular day moving up the list for future employment and being paid
attendance money. The scheme is operated by the Port Labor Committee, com-
posed of PNGHB's labor allocator, a union representative, and a licensed
stevedore representative; it is financed by a separate levy of K 0.07 per ton
of cargo handled. Additional casual labor is available if required. Gangs
consist for overseas ships of 20/30 men per hatch, with about 2 hatches
worked, plus a shed gang; coastal ship gangs consist of about 10 men. Normal
working hours are 0800 hours to 2200 hours. Overtime is worked at the ship's
option.
3.16      Cargo stored in sheds or on open storage areas can remain in the
port for four working days free of charge (overseas) and one working day
(coastal). Charges are then levied for up to seven days further storage; if
the cargo is not collected after seven days, it is moved to storage outside
the port. Cargo already cleared by Customs, is removed to a non-bonded
warehouse for eventual collection; cargo not cleared by Customs is placed in



- 9 -
a Customs-nominated bonded store for clearance before collection. All such
movement and storage is to the consignees' account. By providing additional
storage in the port, the proposed project will reduce the volume of cargo
which has to be moved to outside storage.
3.17      For efficient operation of the proposed facility, it is essential
that one stevedoring organization (either a firm or a consortium) be respon-
sible for all container operations and, during negotiations, PNGHB and the
Government have agree to make, by January 1, 1979, appropriate arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 5), to effect this and to appoint a suitably
qualified PNGHB officer to superintend these operations.
4. THE PROJECT
A. The Capital Investment Program
4.01.      PNGHB's capital investment program for 1978 through 1982, which
has not yet been fully approved by the Government, totals K 13.4 million
(US$18.4 million) (Table 2). Besides expenditures in 1978 through 1980 on
the proposed project,ll the program includes coastal shipping facilities at
Rabaul; a cargo shed at Kavieng; a new wharf at Madang; construction of
breasting dolphins, an extension of the coastal facilities and the first
stage of a tidal basin at Lae; and minor works at other ports. Not included
in the program is a replacement for the existing Main Wharf which will be
required by about 1987 and will take the form of a coastal wharf on an area
to be reclaimed, contiguous with and to the north of the proposed project.
The replacement wharf and the related filled area will constitute the next
port development at Port Moresby. The Government and PNGHB have agreed that
the next port development, when required, will proceed on the above basis.
B. The Project
4.02      The project would provide, at Port Moresby, adequate and efficient
facilities for handling containers, including an extension of the available
land area and of the existing container freight station, and facilities for
refrigerated container cargoes; it will provide adequate capacity to handle
the forecast traffic until the next port development is required about 1987.
If the Ok Tedi copper mine project is implemented (para 5.05) ore exports
would be handled at separate facilities across the bay from the present port.
Inward shipments of supplies could be handled over the proposed or existing
facilities, and heavy machinery would be handled by barge in the stream. The
proposed project would also provide a new coastal facility at Samarai
(Map 13007) to replace the existing wharf which is in an extremely dilapi-
dated and unsafe condition.  Overseas ships which now use the port will be
diverted to Alotau, on the mainland near Samarai. The project, which is
based on consultants' recommendations, as amended following the Bank's
review, would comprise:
/1 The full container terminal comprises the proposed project and the Exist-
ing Shed Area works provided under Credit 326-PNG (Map 13007).



- 10 -
(a)  additional reclaimed land adjacent to that provided under
Credit .326-PNG to increase the total area available for
containesr operations by about 1.6 ha to about 4.2 ha;
(b)  a new 1:25 m berth on the seaward face of the reclamation built
to handle containers and with 10 m depth of water;
(c)  a 3,300 sq m extension to the existing container freight station;
(d)  improvements to about 400 m of the access road adjacent to the port;
(e)  a 30 m long sheet-piled coastal berth at Samarai with 5 m depth
alongside (Map 13007);
(f)  pilotages launches for other ports; and
(g) consult:ing services for design and construction supervision
and teclnical assistance and training.
The road improvements referred to in para (d) above will meet the port's
immediate access requirements; it is expected, however, that within a few
years, the roads between the port and the industrial area, a distance of
about 15 km, will have to be improved. The Government has agreed to take
appropriate action to improve such access roads before January 1, 1982,
including the completion of a feasibility study not later than January 1,
1980..
C.  Project Cost Estimates
4.03      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at K 7.6 mil-
lion (US$10.5 miLlion equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of
K 5.1 million (US$7.0 million equivalent). The estimate is based upon final
design and unit costs for similar ongoing or recently completed works in PNG
and is considered adequate; it includes physical contingencies of about 10%
of the cost of civil works; and an allowance for future price increases of 9%
in 1978 and 1979 and 8% in 1980. Details of the costs are given in Table 3,
and are summarized below:
K Million                 US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
1.  Civil Works                 2,020   3,420   5,440      2,750   4,670   7,420
2.  I'ilotage Launches             25     225      250        30      310     340
3. Engineering and
Supervision                 25      345     370         30     470      500
4.  Technical Asslstance
and Training                15      185     200         20     250      270
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)        2,085   4,175   6,260      2,830   5,700   8,530
Physical Contingencies            200     340      540       270      500     770
Expected Price Increases
(14% of BCE)                   245      555     800        400     800   1,200
Total              2,530   5,070   7.600      3,500   7,000  10,500



- 11 -
Estimated annual expenditures for the project are given in Table 4. The
proposed loan to the Government would cover 50% of the estimated foreign
exchange costs of US$7.0 million; the balance would be provided by the Kuwait
Fund. The full amount of US$7.0 million would be relent to PNGHB. Local
currency costs will be provided by PNGHB.
D. Disbursement
4.04      The foreign exchange content of the civil works of the proposed
project is estimated at 64%. Disbursement for civil works would be on the
basis of this percentage of total cost. For technical assistance and train-
ing and consulting services, disbursement would be on the basis of 100% of
total costs. Disbursement for the pilotage launches, which are being pro-
cured locally, would be on the basis of 90% of total costs. Bank disburse-
ments would amount to half the above percentages, with the remainder being
disbursed by the Kuwait Fund. The estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Table 5.
E. Engineering Services and Technical Assistance
4.05      Final engineering has been completed by Maunsell and Partners
(Australia), who have also been appointed for construction supervision and
are acceptable to the Bank. Technical assistance will finance overseas
training of PNGHB staff and 36 man-months of consultancy services in the
fields of management, accounting and data collection, estimated to cost
US$6,000 per man-month, excluding travel and local subsistence allowances
(Annex 4).
F. Procurement
4.06      Contracts for construction and supply for all items in the proposed
project will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding,
in accordance with Bank guidelines. These procedures are acceptable to the
Kuwait Fund. The contract for pilotage launches has been let to a local
firm, following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. It is anticipated that retroactive financing of foreign exchange
expenditures on one of the pilotage launches may be required, amounting to
approximately US$100,000. Because of the urgency to provide the container
facilities PNGHB is preparing all contract documentation and will call for
tenders in accordance with Bank guidelines prior to loan signature. The
tender will be let after loan signature.
G. Project Execution
4.07      PNGHB, with the assistance of the consultants, would be responsible
for the execution of the project. Construction is expected to commence in
June 1978 and will be completed in June 1, 1980. A construction schedule is
shown in Chart 18839.
4.08      The area to be reclaimed for the container operations is founded
on a 9 m depth of silt/coral matrix which has provided an adequate foundation
in the Existing Shed Area provided under Credit 326-PNG. However, to ensure



- 12 -
that the risk of a slip failure is eliminated, about 35% of this material
under the seaward end of the new reclamation will be dredged and replaced by
excavated fill. Rock armoring under the new berth and the piling, is designed
to permit future deepening to 12 m.
H. Ecology
4.09      The proposed reclamation of land for the port works at Port
Moresby is similar in all respects to that undertaken for Credit 326-PNG,
which had no adverse effects on the harbor ecology; the proposed dredging is
not excessive and the spoil would be dumped beyond the existing coral reef.
No other environmental effects will ensue from the proposed project.
J. Employment
4.10      It is expected that most containers landed will contain cargo for
more than one consignee and will therefore have to be unstuffed in the port.
Accordingly, any reduction in employment on the wharf resulting from the
increased efficiency of container operations, is likely to be largely offset
by an increase in shed labor. The effect of the introduction of containers
on port labor is therefore expected to be limited.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      Port Moresby handles virtually the whole of the southern mainland's
external trade, in addition to a substantial volume of coastal traffic. About
50%; of the port's overseas traffic consists of trade with Australia, carried
by Australian owned shipping lines which have converted their operations from
palletized general cargo to containers. Without adequate provision for the
handling of these containers, the increased efficiencies of container ship-
ping would be largely lost. In addition, ocean freight rates would ulti-
mately rise without better container facilities in the port.
5.02      The economic evaluation derives the economic benefits from a com-
parison of the situation with and without the proposed project. As previously
noted, the APC Wharf is in very poor condition and will have to be closed to
cargo ships by aLbout 1980. Thereafter, without the proposed project, the Main
Wharf would have to handle the whole of the port's traffic, and substantial
ship-waiting tinme would result; in addition, it is probable that some of Port
Moresby's exterrLal trade would be lost.
5.03      Accordingly, the principal economic benefits of the proposed proj-
ect consist of the avoidance of ship-waiting time, faster ship turnaround
time, reduced inland transport costs and reduced cargo handling costs
(paras 5.08-5.11).
5.04      As previously noted, the Main Wharf will have to be replaced by
about the end of 1987 as part of the next port development. Without the
proposed project, this Main Wharf replacement would have very large benefits



- 13 -
since the alternative, lightering of cargo, would involve substantial ship-
waiting time and cargo handling costs, and would probably result in a sub-
stantial loss of trade. The evaluation omits both the costs and the benefits
of this further port development from the cost and benefit streams of the
proposed project in order clearly to distinguish the effects of the proposed
project from those of the next port development. However, if the costs and
benefits of this development are included in the cost and benefit streams of
the proposed project, the rate of return is increased (Annex 7, Table A).
B. Traffic Forecast
5.05      Traffic statistics kept by PNGHB provide no breakdown by commodity;
therefore, it is not possible to project traffic on a basis related to over-
all economic trends. Accordingly, the traffic projections for all PNGHB
ports (Table 6) and for Port Moresby (Table 7) are based on statistical
analyses of past traffic data for imports, exports, and inbound and outbound
coastal traffic. Data for overseas traffic, although showing year-to-year
fluctuations of up to 19%, are essentially trendless and, therefore, a zero
growth rate has been used for both Port Moresby and PNGHB overall. Using a
three-year moving average, analysis of coastal traffic data indicates an
annual growth rate of about 5% for PNGHB overall, although year-to-year
fluctuations of 15% have been experienced; at Port Moresby traffic shows a
3.5% increase per annum for outbound and zero growth for inbound. These
growth rates have been used in the projections and result in an annual
growth in total traffic of 1.6% for all PNGHB ports, from 1,453,000 revenue
tons in 1977 to 1,681,000 in 1986; and 0.6% for Port Moresby, from 339,000
tons in 1977 to 357,000 in 1986. This modest growth rate is unlikely to be
increased by any foreseeable developments in the Port Moresby area. Major
natural resource developments, such as the Ok Tedi project now under study,
are too uncertain at present to take into the forecast.
5.06      The projection of the volume of containers for PNGHB is based on
the expectation that all of the Australian trade through Lae, Port Moresby
and Rabaul, will be moving in containers by mid-1978. This would account for
40% of total PNGHB imports and 50% of imports through these three ports.
Containerized imports, taken at 20 revenue tons per container, amount to
about 15,000 containers for PNGHB overall; the same number of containers will
move outwards. Similarly, at Port Moresby, the number of inward containers
is forecast to be 5,275 and total containers 10,550.
5.07      The present statistical breakdown of traffic for the main PNGHB
ports is insufficiently detailed for port planning purposes. The proposed
project would provide funds for technical assistance in setting up a data
collection system which would provide a commodity breakdown of traffic
statistics (Annex 4).
C. Project Benefits
5.08      The proposed project would avoid substantial ship-waiting time which
would otherwise be incurred when the APC Wharf is closed to cargo ships, about
1980. Without the proposed project, ship-waiting time of overseas ships is
estimated at about 2,900 hours in 1980 and that of coastal ships at about



- 14 -
10,000 hours. The total cost of ship-waiting time is estimated at US$681,000
in 1980, and is held constant thereafter on the assumption that high costs in
the "without" case would eliminate the forecast growth in coastal shipments.
5.09      The proposed project would reduce ship turnaround time signifi-
cantly, because: (a) container ships using the proposed container berth
would benefit from elimination of the transport of containers between the
Main Wharf and the Existing Shed Area (Map 13007), which at present results
in significant loading or unloading delays; (b) overseas shipping continuing
to use the Main Wharf would benefit from a reduction in the congestion on the
narrow Main Wharf which presently hampers cargo handling; and (c) coastal
shipping transferred from the APC Wharf to the Main Wharf would benefit from
an increase in cargo-handling productivity (para 5.11) resulting in an
average reduction of 20 hours per ship in turnaround time. The benefits from
reduced ship turnaround time would total US$393,000 in 1981, rising to
US$425,000 in 1987. Port tariffs will be adjusted to ensure that the whole
of the benefits of avoided ship waiting time and faster ship turnaround
accrues to the PNG economy. In 1981, foreign shipowners would receive
benefits from the project amounting to about US$480,000, whereas tariff
increases necessary to produce the required rate of return (para 6.05) will
yield in 1981 incremental cash proceeds of about US$980,000.
5.10      The proposed project would avoid the necessity of transporting
containers between the Main Wharf and the Existing Shed Area at a cost of
US$18.75 for the two-way movement. In addition, the extension to the shed
would permit a reduction in the volume of cargo which has to be transferred
to outside storage in order to keep the transit sheds clear, from the present
5% of cargo (excluding direct deliveries) to 1.5%. The saving, which includes
transport and double handling, is estimated at US$20 per ton, or US$237,000
per annum.
5.11      The proposed project would significantly reduce cargo handling
costs. The existing congestion on the narrow Main Wharf would be greatly
reduced by the proposed berth, which would handle most of the larger overseas
ships, and this would permit an increase in overseas general cargo-handling
productivity of about 14%, from the present 12.3 tons per gross gang hour to
aba,ut 14 tons (Table 1). Transfer of coastal shipping from the inefficient
APC Wharf to the Main Wharf would permit an increase in cargo handling
productivity frcom the present 4 tons per gross gang hour to about 10 tons on
about 60,000 tons per annum. The foregoing cargo handling savings total
US$237,000 in 1980, rising to US$261,000 in 1987, and are largely in terms of
equipment and casual labor. The value of the labor savings is taken at 50%
of the market value. To ensure that these benefits are derived from the
prcject, PNGHB has agreed to close the APC Wharf to cargo ships of over 10 m
length.  The APC Wharf will not be demolished, as it is useful for Government
passenger launchtes and should have a remaining useful life for this purpose
when cargo ships; cease to use it. The capital costs and benefits of the
proposed project are shown in Table 8 and additional details of the benefits
in Annex 7. The economic costs used in the analysis comprise about 81% of
the total project cost. Items excluded from the economic costs include



- 15 -
technical assistance, which is for the benefit of PNGHB overall and is not
related to the proposed works; and the cost of pilot boats, which are
intended for ports other than Port Moresby.
D. Economic Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
5.12      The foregoing benefits yield an economic return of 14% on the
proposed project. The return was tested for sensitivity to changes in the
values of the key variables, and was found to be sensitive to an increase in
capital cost or a decrease in benefits; a 25% increase in capital costs would
reduce the return to 10%; a 15% decrease in benefits would reduce the return
to 12%. However, reduction in the traffic projections to a zero growth rate,
regarded as the minimum feasible level, would have a negligible impact on
the return. Since, as already noted, the whole of the Australian trade has
been containerized, and no significant change in the volume of the Australian
trade is foreseen, the number of containers seems unlikely to fall below that
forecast. The project is not subject to any unusual risks.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
6.01      PNGHB's revenues in recent years have not kept pace with increased
operating costs and, in 1976, an operating deficit was incurred (para 6.03).
The situation is readily rectified by the tariff adjustments recommended in
para 6.05. The projected cash flow will then be sufficient to finance
current operations, the capital investment program, the servicing of debt,
and to provide for an adequate dividend for the Government from 1980. The
assumptions underlying the financial projections are given in Annex 8.
B. Rates and Charges
6.02      PNGHB's tariffs were last revised in 1976, with new dues and
charges taking effect September 30, 1976. The principal changes affecting
revenues included an average 20% increase in overseas wharfage rates, a 23%
increase in coastal wharfage rates, and a 100% increase in overseas berthage
rates. On this basis, the revenues derived per container (20 revenue tons)
are estimated to be equivalent to K 38 (US$52.44), which is recognized as
low by international standards. PNGHB has applied for a container tariff
increase which would yield about K 150,000 in the half year from July 1,
1978.  A summary of the schedule of present and recommended rates is set
forth in Table 9.
C. Past Earnings and Current Financial Position
6.03      A summary profit and loss statement for the fiscal years 1974-77
is set forth in Table 10. The following ratios reflect the earnings of the
1975-77 period; ratios for 1974, derived relative to an unrevalued asset
base, are not comparable and thus are not included:



- 16 -
1975     1976      1977
Operating                                         74       107       74
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets in Use    3.5%         (0.8%)   3.9%
The financial performance in 1975-77 was substantially weaker than the
appraisal forecast of the first port project and the returns on fixed assets
in use were consistently less than the 8% required under Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement for Credit 326-PNG.  PNGHB's financial experience in these
years can be largely explained by the Government's failure to increase
tariffs sufficiently to offset static traffic and the unanticipated increase
in operating expenses. During this period, depreciation nearly tripled,
reflecting the enhanced valuation of port assets, and total operating
expenses more than doubled, primarily because of an increase in salaries and
staff. As a result of these trends, PNGHB incurred an operating deficit in
1976. Even in 1977, which included the full effect of the September 1976
tariLff increases, the above estimated ratios need further improvement, as
shown. Appropriate steps to strengthen PNGHB's financial condition are
discussed in para 6.05.
6.04      Balance sheet data for fiscal years 1974-77 are presented in
Tab:Le 11. In 1975, the balance sheet figures changed abruptly with PNGHB's
assumption of substantial additional debt (Credit 326-PNG) and with the
revaluation of its assets which resulted in an 80% increase in the equity
account. Further balance sheet changes occurred in 1976 and 1977 with annual
revaluations of PNGHB's assets and related adjustments to the accumulated
depreciation account. Throughout, the debt/equity ratio remained modest,
rising from 18/82 in 1974 to only 25/75 in 1977, and the current ratio
improved from l.5x in 1974 to 2.3x in 1977. PNGHB's historical balance
sheets are satisfactory.
D. Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.05      The projected income accounts for PNGHB for 1978-82 are given
in Table 10. If PNGHB is to achieve the projected improvement in its return
on existing assets and realize an appropriate return on new assets it is
essential for its tariffs to be increased.  The proposed tariffs are pre-
sented in Table 9 and summarized below:



- 17 -
Recommended Tariffs and Charges                Effective Date
Containerized Cargo
(a) At Lae, K 97 (US$134) per container replacing
berthage and wharfage charges on
containerized cargo and ships                      January 1, 1979
(b)  Same as para (a) for all PNGHB ports                  January 1, 1980
Uncontainerized Cargo
(c)  70% increase in overseas berthage rates               January 1, 1980
(d)  30% increase in overseas wharfage rates               January 1, 1980
(e) 10% increase in coastal berthage and
wharfage rates                                     January 1, 1980
Stevedoring Charge
An annual rental charge to stevedoring
companies for the use of PNGHB's container
facilities at Port Moresby                   K 150,000    January 1, 1979
K 350,000    January 1, 1981
Alternative methods of achieving the projected revenue in 1982 by varying
berthage and wharfage rate increases are displayed in graphical form in
Chart 17857. PNGHB and the Government have agreed that, effective January 1,
1979, tariffs will increase as above or in such other manner as will produce
the required rate of return (para 6.09). They have further agreed that PNGIIB
will impose tariffs for the handling of containers at Port Moresby sufficient
to produce, in 1981 and thereafter, a 10% return on the initial costs of the
project items in use at Port Moresby.
6.06      On this basis, the forecast revenue in 1981 and beyond is static,
reflecting the no-growth projection for overseas traffic and the resulting
constant volume of container traffic. Towards the end of the forecast period,
operating expenses are expected to increase at more than K 300,000 p.a., and
interest on outstanding debt, estimated at more than twice its 1976 level, is
scheduled for continued growth. In view of the projected steady revenues and
increasing costs, the Government and PNGHB have agreed to review the tariffs
from time to time to ensure an adequate return on assets (para 6.09).
6.07      The income account performance ratios reflecting the earnings pro-
jections for the 1978-82 period are set forth below:
1978       1979        1980         1981        1982
Operating ratio                 79          73         64           64          68
Times interest earned          1.6x       2.Ox        3.Ox         2.9x        2.5x
Debt service coverage          1.9x        2.4x       3.2x         3.1x        2.8x



- 18 -
These ratios are satisfactory after 1979 with the full introduction of the
assumed tariff changes. PNGHB has reaffirmed Section 4.05 (a) of the Project
Agreement of Credit 326-PNG, which requires PNGHB not to incur additional
debt if its net revenue is less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements.
6.08      The estimated balance sheet summaries for 1978-82, are presented in
Table 11. The debt/equity ratio is satisfactory, rising from 27/73 in 1977
to 36/64 in 1982. The forecast current position is favorable, with working
capital more than adequate to finance current operations.
6.09      Estimated rates of return on the average net fixed assets in use
for the 1978-82 period are as follows:
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982
 __________________  %        -----------------
Return on average net
fixed assets in use            3.3       4.8      7.3       7.6       7.1
The rates of return are low during the construction period of the proposed
project (1978 and 1979) and satisfactory in 1980 and thereafter. Although
the returns in 1980-82 are less than the 8% return required under Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement for Credit 326-PNG, they ensure an ample cash
flow (para 6.10). To require an 8% rate of return through the forecast
period would necessitate unreasonable and unnecessary tariff increases.
Given that the proposed container tariff is the maximum that is considered
practical, an 8% rate of return would require increases in other tariff rates
so large as probably to be unacceptable to both the Government and the ship-
ping industry. Accordingly, PNGHB has agreed that it will earn an annual
return on net fixed assets of not less than 4% in 1979 and not less than 7.0%
thereafter. A 2% annual growth in overseas traffic instead of the forecast
zero growth would result in at least an 8% return being achieved. Assuming
zero traffic growth, the required 7% return will necessitate a tariff
increase in 1983. The Government has reaffirmed Section 3.03 of the Credit
Agreement of Credit 326-PNG, which requires it to take all necessary steps to
enable PNGHB to set and maintain its tariffs at appropriate levels.
E. Cash Position and Financial Plan
6.10      Overall, the projected cash position of PNGHB is healthy.  A
detailed cash flow forecast for 1978-82 is presented in Table 12. It has
been assumed that, in addition to the ongoing and proposed Bank-financed
projects, the project at Lae, commencing in 1981, will be 50% financed
through an international loan (Annex 8).  The statement below, summarizing
the financial plan during the forecast period, reveals that PNGHB would be
able to finance a satisfactory 46% of its investment program requirements
with internally generated funds.



- 19 -
(K'000)        %
CASH REQUIRED
Proposed Project                                7,600
Other Capital Expenditures                      5,765
13,365         100
CASH AVAILABLE
Internally Generated Cash                      16,280
Less:  Debt Service (Table 13)                 (5,748)
Reductions in Operating Working Capital           109
Dividend                                       (4,705)
Decrease in Cash Balance                          649
Increase in Insurance Fund                       (450)
Internal Cash Available
for Investment                                6,135          46
Loans                                           7,230          54
13,365        100
The adequacy of PNGHB's cash flow is based on the assumption that its capital
expenditures will not exceed its planned program. The Government and PNGHB
have therefore agreed to limit PNGHB's capital expenditures on projects other
than the proposed project to K 600,000 per annum in 1978-79, and K 1,000,000
per annum in 1980-82.
6.11      The projected cash flow emphasizes that during 1978-79 prior to the
full introduction of the new tariffs, PNGHLB's capital expenditure program
imposes a substantial drain on the Board's cash resources; accordingly,
the Government has indicated that it does not intend to seek any dividend
payments from PNGHB during the construction period of the Project if such
payment would jeopardize the financial position of PNGHB in such a way that
PNGHB would be unable to cover its cash requirements for debt service,
working capital and 50% of its investment program during that period.
F. Port MIoresby: Past and Future Earnings
6.12      The historical and projected income accounts for the project port
are summarized below and set forth in more detail in Table 14.



- 20 -
Actual                      Forecast
1976     1977      1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
----------------- (Kina '000) -------------------
Total operating revenues    578         813       963  1,180  1,957  2,179  2,201
Total operating expenses    575         624       739    964  1,249  1,300  1,386
Operating surplus               3       189       224    216    708    879    815
Ratios:  operating             99        77        77     82      64     60      63
Returns on average net
fixed assets in use         0.1      3.9       3.7    2.5    6.0    7.2    6.9
6.13      The historical data base is limited to the income accounts for
1975/76 and 1976/77.  With tariffs unchanged from 1972-76, revenues closely
followed traffic which, with the exception of 1975, remained static. In
contrast, port management has indicated that during this period operating
expenses expanded significantly, primarily as a result of salary increases.
The resulting marginal operating surplus, negligible return on net fixed
assets in operatiLon, and high operating ratio are illustrated in the 1976
income accounts. The health of the port's operating finances was substan-
tially restored through the September 30, 1976 tariff increase as depicted in
the income accounts for 1977.
6.14      The projected income accounts for Port Moresby are based upon
assumptions similar to those used in projecting the financial statements for
PNGHIB as a whole (Annex 8). Overseas traffic is assumed to be constant and
coastal traffic :is expected to experience only modest growth (Table 7).
Additional revenue is assumed to be generated as from January 1, 1979, by the
stevedoring charge for use of the container facilities provided at Port
Moresby under Credit 326 and the proposed project. In addition, operating
expenses are estimated to be level in real terms, while administrative and
management expenses are assumed to grow at about 3% p.a. in real terms. Thus
the projected financial performance is analogous to that of PNGHB as a whole.
Revenues are steady in 1981-82 and total operating expenses are increasing at
approximately 7% p.a. The resulting rise in the operating ratio which is a
satisfactory 63% in 1982 suggests that tariffs should be reviewed on a
periodic basis. The return on net fixed assets in operation in 1982 (6.9%)
is about identical with the return (7.1%) realized for PNGHB as a whole in
1982.
G. Auditing and Insurance
6.15      Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement of Credit 326-PNG requires
PNGHB to furnish the Bank with audited financial statements within six months
of ithe end of each fiscal year. The Auditor General's Office only recently
completed audits for the fiscal years 1975-77 and, because of the delay,
PNGHB asked Coopiers & Lybrand to carry out annual audits, and the Bank
accepted their auadit certification for the purposes of Section 4.02. As
noted in para 3.09, the statements audited by Coopers & Lybrand for the



- 21 -
fiscal years 1975-77 were based on revalued assets. PNGHB has agreed to
employ coinsulting engineers to revalue its assets no later than December 31,
1978, and every three years thereafter and has reaffirmed Section 4.02 of
the Project Agreement of Credit 326-PNG.
6.16      PNGHB maintains an adequate insurance program comprising a PNGHB-
managed fund of approximately K 500,000 supplemented by commercial coverage
for damage attributable to one disaster. As the PNGHB-managed fund, which is
invested in Government securities, grows to over K 1 million in 1980, the
commercial coverage will be scaled down accordingly. The adequacy of the
commercial coverage is presently under review by PNGHB. During negotiations,
it agreed to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound port
management practices.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached with PNGHB and the Government that they
will make arrangements for a single stevedoring organization to be respon-
sible for all container operations in Port Moresby (para 3.17).
7.02      Agreement has been reached with the Government that it will:
(a) grant a lease to PNGHB covering the area of the proposed
project not later than January 1, 1979 (para 3.04);
(b) construct the next port development in Port Moresby contiguous
with, and to the north of the proposed project (para 4.01);
(c) undertake a feasibility study by January 1, 1980, and improve
the access roads between the port and the industrial area before
January 1, 1982 (para 4.02); and
(d) take all necessary steps to enable PNGHB to set and
maintain its tariffs at appropriate levels (para 6.09).
7.03      Agreement has been reached with PNGHB that it will:
(a) close the APC wharf to cargo ships of over 10 m length (paras 3.02
and 5.11);
(b)  undertake by December 31, 1978, a costing study which will pro-
vide the costs of its various services and facilities at each of
its main ports and reaffirm Section 4.04 (c) of the Project
Agreement of Credit 326-PNG regarding the basis of PNGHB's tariffs
(para 3.08);
(c) retain sufficient competent staff; in the case of the Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Engineer their qualifications and
experience will be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.11);



- 22 -
(d) increase its tariffs, effective January 1, 1979, (para 6.05) and
review them periodically thereafter to maintain the required rate
of return (para 6.06);
(e) reaffirm Section 4.05 (a) of the Project Agreement of Credit 326-PNG
regarding debt service coverage (para 6.07);
(f) earn an annual return on net fixed assets of not less than 4%
in 1979 and not less than 7% thereafter (para 6.09);
(g)  restrict its capital expenditures through 1982 (para 6.10);
(h)  employ consulting engineers to revalue its assets no later than
December 31, 1978, and every three years thereafter and should
reaffirm Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement of Credit 326-PNG
(para. 6.15); and
(i) make provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound port management practices (para 6.16).
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$3.5 million
equivalent to the Government of Papua New Guinea for a term of 20 years,
irLcluding a grace period of five years. The Kuwait fund would also provide
a loan of US$3.5 million equivalent. The Government would relend both loans
to PNGHB at the! Bank's interest rate for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of four years.
March 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Works Financed Under Credit 326-PNG
1.        At Kieta, improvements comprised provision of two new 60 m coastal
berths with about 4,000 sq m shed space which are now completed and in
operation and an extension to the ocean wharf, currently in progress.
2.        At Lae, a 185 m extension to the existing berth was constructed,
together with provision of a transit shed of 12,000 sq m and a backup area
for container operations with ancillary buildings. The work is completed.
3.        At Port Moresby, 1.3 ha of land was reclaimed as the first stage
of the overall development plan for the port and a new container freight
station (c.f.s.) of 1,800 sq m constructed. Subsequently, the Association
agreed to finance reclamation of an additional 1.3 ha land to permit the
storage of containers pending construction of the full container yard and
extended c.f.s. under the proposed project. The fill for this reclamation,
amounting to 95,000 sq m was obtained from the site of a proposed new road over
Burns Peak.
4.        At Alotau, a new port installation was provided, comprising a 90 m
international berth, a 50 m coastal berth, a transit shed 1,700 sq m and
open storage with ancillary buildings. A small roll-on/roll-off barge
ramp was included. Except for the ramp, all work is completed.
5.        Consultants were financed for engineering and supervision of the
above works and for management and financial studies and training.
6.        Costs involved in the above works and the anticipated unexpended
portion of the Credit when all the ongoing works are completed is attached.
September 1977



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Table A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Estimated Project Expenditure Credit 326-PNG
(Kina)
Civil Works
Kieta          Coastal Wharf                        1,057,510
Cathodic Protection                     6,793
Stevedores Amenities                   27,312        1,091,615
Kieta Ocean Wharf                                                      760,000
Lae            New Wharf                            2,771,567
Cathodic Protection                     7,960
Training School                        91,431        2,870,958
Alotau         New Wharf                            1,527,431
Cathodic Protection                     4,556
Barge ramp                                 90        1,532,077
Port Moresby   Reclamation of 1.3 ha land
and transit shed                                      412,466
Extension to reclaimed area at Port Moresby                            517,206
Sub-total Civil Works                 7,238,322
Engineering Services                                                   718,815
Training and Management Studies                                        134,100
Total                                 8,091.237
September 1977



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Table B
Project Expenditures Summary and Allocation of Funds
Credit 326-PNG
Project Expenditures Summary      Allocation of Funds
Local     Foreign      Total            (US$ /1)
----------- (Kina) ---------
I.  Civil Works             1,302,898  5,935,424  7,238,322          7,919,280
II.  Engineering Services       -          718,815    718,815            898,519
III.  Training & Studies         -          134,100    134,100            169,000
Total              1,302,898  6,788,339  8,091,237          8,986,799
IV.  Unallocated                                                        231,201
9,200,000
/1 Rates of exchange have varied over the period of execution of the
contract.
September 1977



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Harbours Board (PNGHB)
Outstanding Leases
The leases required by PNGHB for the ports it operates and not yet
received are listed below:
Port Moresby
Allotment 21 Section 26  Granville   (original main port area)
Allotment 4 Section 53  Granville   (one of 3 APC Lots)
Allotment 3 Section 53  Granville   (Head Office site)
Allotment 7 Section 53  Granville   (Water area,  East of APC leases to
Southern boundary of Defence Reserve).
Area of land and water illustrated on Map No. IBRD 13007
Lae
S34 (Known as O.T.C. Lot)
Madang
Allotment 32 Section 53    (Main Port Area)
Allotment 13 Section 6
Rabaul
Section 68 (Main. Port Area)
Kieta
Allotments 10, 26, 27, 33 Section 70
Section 6 Administration Land eastwards of Lot 10.
Oro Bay
Allotment 27 Section 990 (Main Port Area)



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Kavieng
Section 18 L   (Main Port Area)
Section 18  Lots I & 2 (Port Development Reserve)
Aitape
Allotment I   Section 20  (Port Area)
Vanimo
Daru
Lorengau
Wewak
Section 40 Lot 124 (Main Port Area)
September 1977



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Ports Administered by the
Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
1. Aitape
2. Alotau
3. Buka
4. Daru
5. Kavieng
6. Kieta
7. Kimbe
8. Lae
9. Lorengau
10. Madang
11. Oro Bay
12. Port Moresby
13. Rabaul
14. Samarai
15. Wewak
16. Vanimo
September 1977



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
1.        PNGHB has a comprehensive and vigorous training program for new
recruits and for existing staff, but as noted in para 3.11, it will be some
years before the senior posts can be filled by adequately experienced
indigenous staff, especially in the fields of management, accounting and
engineering.
2.        PNGHB operates its own training school in Lae where school recruits
are trained over a period of twelve months to become Assistant Wharf Super-
intendents. The course includes classroom teaching and on-the-job training
under existing staff in the ports. It has proved successful and produced
some 51 trained staff over the period 1971-76.
3.        PNGHB also provides training for engineering staff and accountants
at Lae Technical College. One engineering and two accounting students
have successfully completed these courses to date, and five others are
currently at Lae.
4.        In addition, two staff members have completed a twelve month
maritime management course at Cardiff, Wales, one of whom has left the
services of PNGHB; two more are currently at Cardiff, and a further two are
due to go this year. Other students totalling seven in all have attended
either operations courses at Singapore, or Middle Management or personnel
courses in Australia, Sweden or Japan. PNGHB propose to continue overseas
training for selected staff, and the project includes funds for additional
overseas training.
5.        The proposed technical assistance (para 4.05) will provide for
consultancy services to review the existing program and establish any addi-
tional training requirements, particularly to provide on-the-job training for
recruits from Lae Technical College.
6.        The present statistical breakdown of port traffic for the principal
PNGHB ports is insufficiently detailed for port planning purposes. The
proposed project would provide funds for technical assistance in setting up a
data collection system which would provide a commodity breakdown of traffic
statistics (para 5.07).
7.        It is proposed that PNGHB should employ consultants to undertake
a costing study acceptable to the Bank (para 3.08). The consultant's terms
of reference would include, inter alia: (i) the identification of the
primary port services and facilities, such as wharves, sheds and open storage;



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(ii) the determination of the fixed and variable costs associated with such
services and facilities; (iii) the design of information collection procedures
to ensure an adequate statistical base for future costing exercises; (iv) the
development of a computational format and methodology to enable PNGHB's staff
to update the costing study annually; and (v) recommendations regarding
changes in the structure of rates and charges based upon the costing analysis.
A total of 36 man-months of consultant services has been included at US$6,000
per man-month plus US$24,000 for overseas training courses.
September 1977



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Container Terminal Operating Company Contract
1.        Papua New Guinea Harbours Board (PNGHB) should contract by
January 1, 1979, on terms satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with a
single container terminal operating Company for the management of container-
handling operations at the proposed wharf. The Company may be a single
stevedoring company or a consortium of companies.
2.        The contract should govern, inter alia:
(a)  charges to be made by PNGHB for the use of port facilities
and equipment;
(b) the tariff of charges to be made by the Company for its
various services;
(c) the facilities and equipment to be provided by PNGHB;
(d) responsibility for operating the terminal in an efficient
manner for use by all PNGHB's customers and in accordance
with the direction of PNGHB;
(e) responsibility for maintenance of container and cargo handling
equipment, including an agreed annual maintenance budget, and
the right of PNGHB to inspect the quality of the Company's
maintenance; and
(f) the right of PNGHB periodically to review the Company's
operating costs and adjust charges accordingly.
September 1977



- 32 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Details of the Project
A. Port Works at: Port Moresby
1.        The container terminal will be constructed by reclamation of a
further 1.6 ha land to seaward of the 1.3 ha originally reclaimed (Existing
Shed area) and subsequently extended under Credit 326-PNG by a further 1.3 ha.
The latter reclamation has just been completed. The total area available will
be 4.2 ha.  The fill for the extension of the Existing Shed and the proposed pro-
ject, totalling 230,000 cu m is being, or will be, provided from the site of the
new by-pass road to be built at Burns Peak. The filled area will be protected
by armor rock placed on all faces from sea bed level.
2.        The sea bed on which the reclamation is based consists of about 9 m
silt/coral matrix which is very firm. It was originally intended to dredge
all this materiaL from under the newly reclaimed area. However, on the
evidence that there has been no settlement in the Existing Shed area, which
has been in use Eor a year, and the fact that no "mud-roll" developed in
front of the fill being placed for the extension thereto, complete removal of
this material will not be necessary. Nevertheless, to ensure that conditions
do not deteriorate seaward of the completed work a causeway has been built to
the limit of the new area and load tested. Also, to eliminate the risk of a
slip circle failure, about 35% of the bed material will be dredged under the
seaward face and replaced by excavated fill.
3.        Total dredging to remove this bed material, and to provide 10 m
water at LWOST alongside the new berth (para 4) and in the seaward approach
to the berth, will be about 100,000 cu m.
4.        The new container berth located at the west seaward face of the
reclaimed area will be 125 m long x 25 m wide and will be designed for
4 ton/sq m It will be open piled construction with steel piles and an insitu
concrete beam and slab deck. A storm bollard will be located in the filled
area at the north end. The berth piles and the foot of the armor rock slope
under the berth are designed to permit 12 m depth at LWOST alongside if this
should be required in future. A bunker fuel line will be provided.
5.        Approximately 5,275 inward containers are expected to be handled
per annum, of which at least 4,000 would be stripped in the port area, or
about 11 per day. Storage will be required for an annual throughput of
about 80,000 revenue tons. The Existing Shed container freight station



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c.f.s.) (1,800 sq m) will be extended by 12 bays, each 7.5 m, one of which
will provide Customs with second story offices. The width of the cfs
will be 36 m and the additional area provided is about 3,300 sq m. Two
containers can be unstuffed or stuffed at each door so that ten can be
handled at one time. Delivery will be from the doors on the opposite side of
the shed, adjacent to the road.
6.        The terminal will be operated by fork lift trucks and the whole
area will be paved with flexible pavement suitable for fork lifts carrying
full containers. The area between the cfs and the berth will provide stacking
for 330 containers in three rows two high. Containers will be offloaded by
ship's gear and transferred to stack. It is anticipated only two rows of
container stacking will normally be required, but a third line can readily be
provided when required. For movement from stack to shed, containers will be
parked at the shed doors by fork lifts. Separate storage for 40 refrigerated
containers with appropriate electrical connections will be also provided.
7.        The stevedore companies have submitted a proposal for container
handling based on the use of fork lift trucks, which they would provide,
which is acceptable to PNGHB and the Bank; adequate undertakings to provide
all required equipment have been received.
8.        Ancillary works include electric lighting in the stacking area,
drainage, stevedore toilets and showers, and a small maintenance shop.
9.        Provision of three 36 foot glass fiber hulled pilot launches is
included in the project to enable PNGHB to carry out its duties as pilotage
authority. They will be stationed at ports where pilotage is compulsory -
Kieta, Madang and Rabaul.
10.       Champion Esplanade runs alongside the port side; it and a junction
with the road running to the old wharf area, will be improved under the
project.
B. Port Works at Samarai
11.       The existing dilapidated overseas berth and coastal berth at
Samarai will be demolished. A 30 m long reinforced concrete coastal berth
will be built out from the shore and a flexibly paved area provided behind
it.  Dredging is included to provide a minimum depth of 5 m alongside and in
the approaches.
February 1978



- 34 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
1.        The APC wharf is in very poor condition and will have to be closed
to cargo ships by about 1980. Thereafter, without the proposed project, the
Main Wharf would have to handle the whole of the port's traffic, and substan-
tial ship-waiting time would result; in addition, it is probable that some of
Port Moresby's external trade would be lost. Accordingly, the principal
bernefits for the proposed project consist of the avoidance of ship-waiting
time, faster ship turnaround time, reduced inland transport costs and reduced
cargo handling costs.
2.        Without the proposed project, the Main Wharf replacement, required
by about the endl of 1987, would have very large benefits since the alterna-
tive, lightering of cargo, would involve substantial ship-waiting time and
cargo handling costs, and would probably result in a substantial loss of
trade. The evaLuation omits both the costs and the benefits of this next port
development from the cost and benefit streams of the proposed project on the
assumption that the "without" case would also include the next stage, and in
order clearly to distinguish the effects of the proposed project from those
of the next port development. However, if the next stage costs and benefits
are included in the cost and benefit streams of the proposed project, the
rate of return is increased to 21% (Annex 7, Table A).
3.        The costs and benefits of the proposed project are shown in Table
8. The principal economic benefits of the proposed project consist of
reduced shipwaitling time and turnaround time, reduced inland transport costs
and reduced cargo handling costs. The details are shown below:
Ship-Waiting Time
(a) Witholut the proposed project, substantial ship-waiting time would
be incurred when, about 1980, the APC Wharf is closed to cargo
ships. The berth occupancy of the outer berth of the Main Wharf
would rise to at least 62%, and that of the two inner berths to
about 80%.  Ship-waiting time would increase commensurately to
about 2,900 hours in 1980 for overseas ships and 10,000 hours for
coastal ships. The total cost of this is estimated at US$681,000
in 1980, and is held constant thereafter on the assumption that
these high costs would eliminate the forecast growth in coastal
shipments.



- 35 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) Container ships using the proposed container wharf will benefit
from elimination of the transport of containers between the Main
Wharf and the Existing Shed area, which at present results in
significant loading or unloading delays. Overseas shipping continu-
ing to use the Main Wharf will benefit from a reduction in the
congestion which presently hampers cargo handling on the narrow
Main Wharf, and average ship turnaround time will be reduced
significantly. These benefits are estimated to total US$115,000.
Simulation of wharf operations was used to calculate the ship hours
saved by the principal categories of shipping. The ship hours for
subparas (a) and (b) are valued at US$213 per hour for container
ships and US$100 per hour for other overseas ships. The full
amount of the benefits in both cases will accrue to PNG through
appropriate adjustment of port tariffs (para 6.06).
(c) Coastal shipping transferred from the APC Wharf to the Main
Wharf will benefit from an increase in cargo handling produc-
tivity (para 3 (g)) resulting in an average reduction of 20 hours
per ship in turnaround time. The time saving is valued at US$31
per hour, resulting in a benefit of about US$300,000.
Inland Transport Costs
(d) The proposed project would avoid the necessity of transporting
containers from the Main Wharf to and from the Existing Shed area
at a cost of US$18.75 for the two-way movement. The saving would
amount to US$99,000 p.a.
(e) The proposed shed would permit a reduction in the volume of
cargo which has to be transferred to outside storage (mainly
bonded) in order to keep the transit sheds clear, from the
present 5% of cargo (excluding direct deliveries) to 1-1/2%.
The saving in transport and double-handling costs is estimated
at US$20 per ton, or US$138,000 p.a.
Cargo-Handling Costs
(f) The proposed project, by reducing congestion on the Main Wharf
will permit an increase in overseas cargo-handling productivity
of about 14%, equivalent to US$0.20 per ton, or US$50,000 p.a.
(g) The condition of the APC Wharf does not permit the use of mobile
cranes or other heavy equipment, and light forklift trucks can
only operate at greatly reduced speed over the open timber decking.
Consequently, cargo-handling productivity is only about 4 tons
per gang hour. The proposed project would permit the transfer of
this traffic to the Main Wharf where cargo-handling productivity



- 36 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
is expected to reach at least 10 tons per gang hour. The
saving, estimated at US$21.00 per hour, amounts to about
US$200,000 p.a.
(h) The foregoing cargo-handling savings are largely in terms of
equipment and casual labor. The value of the labor savings is
taken at 50% of the market price.
August 1977



PAfPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Including Second Stage Development)
(11SS ' 000)
(1)                        (1)      Inland                                                (4)
Economic Costs              Ship Waiting Time        Ship Turnaround Time       Transport of        Bonded         Cargo Handling Costs            Total Net
Year      First Stage   Second Stage         Overseas    Coastal       Overseas    Coastal        Containers (2)    Cargo (3)    Overseas            Coastal         Benefits
1978           960                                                                                                                                                      (960)
1979         3,465                                                                                                                                                    (3,465)
1980         3,480                                                                                                                                                    (3,480)
1981           450                               369        312             115        278             99              138              50             187             1,098
1982                                             369        312             115        283             99              138               50            191             1,557
1983                              (5)            369        312             115        288             99              138               50            194             1,565
1984                           100(5)            369        312             115        294             99              138               50             198            1,475
1985                        1,000(5)             369        312             115        299             99              138               50            202               584
1986                        1,200(5)             369        312             115        304             99              138               50            206               393
1987                          200              1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,019
1988                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,219
1989                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1990                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,219
1991                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1992                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1993                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,219
1994                                           1,089        312          .,753         310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1995                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,219
1996                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1997                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138              406            211             4,219
1998                                           1,089        312           1,753        310             -               138             406             211             4,219
1999                                           1,089        312           1,753        310              -              138              406            211             4,219
2000                                           1,089        312           1,753        310              -              138              406             211            4,219
Economic Costs                   8,355                                                                                Rate of Return  21%
Expected Price Increases        1,200
Technical Assistance               270
Floating Craft                     365
Samarai Project                    310
Total Project Cost              10,500
(1)  Ship's operating cost in port, taken at US$213 per hour for container ships, US$100 per hour for other overseas ships and us$31 per hour for coastal ships.
From 1987 onwards, it is assumed that, in the "without" case, in order to minimize the cost of ship waiting time, all overseas traffic is carried in general cargo ships.
Also, cargo handling rates fall to 11 tons per gang hour, turnaround time increases from 33 hours to 74 hours and ship waiting time increases proportionately.
(2) Avoided cost of transporting containers from Main Wharf to Shed 4 area. Estimated at US$18.75 for the two way movement.
(3) Avoided cost of transport of imports to bonded storage. Calculated at 347% of imports handled through transit sheds.
(4) Calculated at US$30.91 per gang hour. Labor sAvings taken at 50% of market value.
(5)  Cost of Main  Wharf replacement (US$2.5 million). Not included in the benefit streams are the avoided capital cost of alternative lighterage facilities, including
lighters, tugs and lighter wharves.
Source: Bank Staff
March 1978



- 38 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
I. PNGHB: Income Accounts
The projected profit and loss statements presented in Table 10 are
based on the following estimates and central assumptions:
(a) the traffic forecasts which are set forth in Table 8;
(b) the capital investment program and disbursement schedule
which are summarized in Tables 2 and 5;
(c) increases in the tariff rates which have been in effect since
September 1976. The modified tariffs together with the esti-
mated schedule for their introduction is formatted in Table 9;
(d) the berthage revenues reflect the traffic forecasts for each
year; allowance was made for revenue lost from general cargo
containerized;
(e)  the wharfage revenues reflect the traffic forecasts; allowance
was made for revenue lost from general cargo containerized;
(f) ton-days of storage per ton of overseas traffic are assumed to
diminish continuously over the forecast period (1978-82);
(g) operating costs are forecasted to remain constant in real terms.
The increase in these expenses in nominal terms has been projected
on the basis of 7% annual inflation in 1978-82;
(h) the forecasted increase in administrative and management expenses
in real terms reflects the expansion of the port's security force.
A 7% annual inflation has been applied to project these costs in
nominal terms;
(i) the niewly acquired pilotage function is projected to make no
contribution to the future operating surplus with forecasted
pilotiage revenues balancing forecasted pilotage expenses;
(j) assets written off on a straight line basis over the following
periods:



- 39 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(i)  land, reclamation, and retaining walls                    nil
(ii) wharves, port buildings and fencing, electrical
installations, residences and head office building    30 years
(iii) office equipment and machines, boats, refrigerators,
electrical stoves, washing machines, air conditioners
and residential furniture                                  5 years
(iv)  motor vehicles                                             3 years
(k) short-term deposits are estimated to yield an 4% return; and
(1) the dividend payment is computed by assuming that no dividend will
be paid in fiscal 1978-79 and, thereafter, the year-end current
assets will not be less than 10% of the current year's revenues
plus 1.5 times the current year's liabilities.
II. PNGHB: Balance Sheet Statements
The projected balance sheets displayed in Table 11 are based on
the following assumptions:
(a) the port development program in Lae commencing in FY81 is projected
to contain a 50% foreign exchange component which, it is assumed,
will be financed with a long-term loan at a lending rate of 7.45%;
(b) the proposed loan for the Second Port Project would be made to
the Government of Papua New Guinea which would relend US$7.0 mil-
lion equivalent to PNGHB on the same terms and conditions as the
proposed Bank loan;
(c) the major portion of the "Work in Progress" account for the proposed
Second Port Project is projected to be transferred to the "Net
Assets in Operations" account by December 31, 1979. The remaining
investments in the proposed Second Port Project are scheduled for
completion by the end of FY80 (Table 4); and
(d) investments in the insurance fund and sinking fund are assumed to
yield 9.85% and 9.0%, respectively. The related interest earned
is debited to the investment account and credited to the appropriate
reserve account.
The principal assumptions involved in developing the cash flow data
for PNGHB are contained in Sections I and II of this Annex.



- 40 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
III. Port Moresby: Income Accounts
The projected profit and loss statements presented in Table 14 are
based on the following estimates and central assumptions:
(a) the traffic forecasts which are set forth in Table 9;
(b)  the assumed capital investment program, which is:
(K'000)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
1,710   4,010    1,640    200         -
(c) insurance expenses are allocated by comparing the assets of Port
Moresby with the assets of PNGHB;
(d) overhead computations take into account inflation and the relative
revenue of Port Moresby and PNGHB; and
(e) same as Section I (paras. [b] to [j]).
February 1978



TABLE 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Port Moresby - Operational Performance Indicators
1976         1980
Cargo Handling
Containers (per hour)                                            8.0          10.0
Palletized General Cargo (per gross gang hour)                  26.5          27.0
Non-unitized Overseas General Cargo (per gross gang hour)   12.3              14.0
Coastal General Cargo (per gross gang hour)                      4.0         10.0
Number of Ship Calls
Container Ships                                                  -            53
Other Overseas Ships                                           325          146
Coastal                                                        620           744
Ship Turnaround Time (hours)
Container Ships                                                  -            30(1)
Other Overseas Ships                                            37            33(2)
Coastal Ships                                                   27           15
Ship-Waiting Time (hours)
Container Ships                                                  -           135 (5)
Other Overseas Ships                                             1.0 (6)      14.8
Coastal Ships                                                    -           13.5
Notes:  (1)  Including idle time of 5 hours.
(2) Including idle time of 6-1/2 hours.
(3) Average of ships handled at APC Wharf and Main Wharf.
(4) Including idle time of 3 hours.
(5) Avoided with construction of the proposed project.
(6) Probably under-reported.
Source: Bank Staff
March 1978



PAPtUA NEW GUINEA                                           TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
PNGHB Capital Investment Program (1978 - 1982)
(K '000)
1978          1979           1980          1981          1982           Total
PORT MORESBY
IDA - Credit 326                                                   460            -              -                                           460
Proposed Project                                                 1,750          4,010          1,640          200             -            7,600
LAE
Construction at Tidal Basin                                                                                 1,000          2,500           3,500
Extension to Coastal Facility                                                                    250                                         250
Sea Wall Construction                                               50             50                                                        100
KIETA
Additional Storage Area Reclrmation                                                              100                                         100
MADANG
Engineering Studies - New Wharf                                                                   80                                          80
WEWAK
Alterations required for I.S.O. Container Traffic                   75                                                                        75
KAVIENG
CMB Shed                                                                                         150                                        150
RABAUL
Coastal Shiipping Facilities                                       50              250           200                                        500
Design and Supervision                                               5              25            20                                         50
SAMARAI
Coastal Faicility                                                 210               20                                                      230
VANIM0
Barge Ramp                                                                          15                                                       15
DARU
Fendering and Shed Construction                                     10                                                                       10
Barge RamP                                                          5
ORO BAY
Barge Ramp Reconstruction                                          50                                                                        50
GENERAL
Contingencies                                                      30              30            50                                         110
Purchase of Conistruction of Staff Quarters                        50                                                                        50
Miscellaneous Surveys                                              10               10           10                                          30
TOTAL                                                           2  75-410                     2500          1.200         2,0           1
Source: PNGPB and Bank Staff
February 1978



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Kina'000                     US$'000
I temn                                            Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total Cost
A. Civil Works
1.  Reclamation and dredging                                 775   1,325   2,100        1,060   1,800   2,860
2.  Wharf structure 125 m by 25 m  2                         555      945   1,500         750   1,290   2,040
3.  Transit shed and canopy 3,300 m                          170     280      450         230      380      610
4.  Offices, surfacing and ancillary works                   360      600      960        500      820   1,320
5.  Improvement to port access road                           75      125      200        100      180      280
6.  Coastal facility at Samarai                               85      145      230        110      200      310
Subtotal Civil Works                                      2,020   3,420   5,440         2,750   4,670   7,420             70
B. Floating Equipment
3 - 36 foot pilot launches                                    25      225      250         30      310      340            3
C.  Consultancy Services                                                                              -
1.  Engineering design and supervision                        25      325      350         30      44A5     475            5
2.  Pilot boat inspection                                     -        20       20         -        25.      25            -
D.  Technical Assistance & Training                               15      185      200          20   (2506    270              3
Base Cost Estimate                                         2,085   4,175   6,260        2,830   5,700   8,530             81
E.  Physical Contingencies (10%  at Civil Works)                 200      340      540        270       500      770           7
F.  Expected Price Increases                                     245      555      800        400       800   1,200           12
TOTAL                                                      2,530   5,070   7,600        3,500   7,000  10,500           100
Notes: 1. Foreign exchange content of civil works 64% of total.
2.  Exchange rate Kl = US$1.38
March  1978



TABLE 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Estimated Annual Project Expenditure
(K'000)
Calendar Year                    Local          Foreign          Total
1978  -  1st half                  45               70             115
2nd half                535            1,100           1,635
1979  -  1st half                 780            1,320           2,100
2nd half                710            1,200           1,910
1980  -  1st half                 430              810           1,240
2nd half                 25              375             400
1981  -  1st half                   5              195             200
TOTALS                          2,530            5,070           7,600
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



TABLE 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule-
(US$'000)
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year       Quarter      Amount Disbursed       Annual      Total
1978                4                 100               100        100
1979                1                 470
2                 600
3                 860
4                 790             2,720     2,820
1980                1                 790
2                 670
3                 680
4                 660             2,800     5,620
1981                1                 650
2                 460
3                  20
4                 250             1,380      7,000
1/ The disbursementsshown are for the full requirement of foreign exchange
US$7.0 million. IBRD disbursementswill be one half of each estimated
amount shown with the balance being provided by the Kuwait Fund.
Source: Bank Staff
February 1978



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
1/            2/
Actual and Forecast Traffic - All PNGHB Ports
('000 Revenue Tons)
Number of
Containers
Fiscal3/               Overseas                           Coastal                   Total               (Loaded and4/
Year -         Imports          Exports         Inwards         Outwards           Traffic             Unloaded) -
Actual            1972            739 0            245.7           179.5           146.9             1,311.1                n.a.
1973            730.2            247.0           172.0           138.4             1,287.6               n.a.
1974            716.2            283 9           197.2           154.8             1,352.1               n.a.
1975            847 7            302.4           223.2           180.6            1,553.9                n.a.
1976           653 7             279.2           211.8           158.7            1,303.4                n.a.
Forecast          1977 (Est.)    750.0             290.0           224.6           188.9             1,453.5
1978            750.0            290.0           235.8           198.3             1,474.1              29,650
1979            750.0            290.0           247.6           208.3             1,495.9              29,700
1980            750.0            290.0           260.0           218.7            1,518.7               29,850
1981            750.0            290.0           273.0           229.6            1,542.6               29,950
1982            750.0            290.0           286.6           241.1            1,567.7               30,100
1983            750.0            290.0           301.0           253.1            1,594.1               30,200
1984            750.0            290.0           316.0           265.8             1,621.8              30,350
1985            750.0            290.0           331.8           279.1             1,650.9              30,450
1986            750.0            290.0           348.4           293.0            1,681.4               30,600
Growth Rate       1977-86           0%               0%              5.0%            5.0%                1.6%
Notes:  I/  Excludes petroleum
2/  PNGHB - Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
3/  1971-76 data are for July 1 through June 30
1977-86 data are for January 1 through December 31
4/  Based on 50% of import volumes at Port Moresby, Lae and Raboul
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
July 1977



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT RPOJECT
1/
Actual and Forecast Traffic - Port Moresby
('000 Revenue Tons)
Number of
Containers
Fiscal2/               Overseas                           Coastal                    Total               (Loaded ani/
Year -         Imports          Exports         Inwards          Outwards          Traffic               Unloaded)-
Actual            1972            220.5              50.6            44.5             38.1             353.7                 n.a.
1973            229.9             43.2            40.2             35.8             349.1                  n.a.
1974            204.5             41.9             36.8            42.6             325.8                 n.a.
1975            268.0             46.3            42.8             51.0             408.1                  n.a.
1976            206.8             36.6             42.2            40.5             326.1                  n.a.
Forecast          1977 (Est.)    211.0               34.0            44.7            49.5              339.2                 7,900
1978            211.0             34.0            44.0             51.2              340.2                10,550
1979            211.0             34.0            44.0             53.0              342.0                10,550
1980            211.0             34.0            44.0             54.9              343.9                10,550
1981            211.0             34.0             44.0            56.8              345.8                10,550
1982            211.0             34.0             44.0            58.8              347.8                10,550
1983            211.0             34.0             44.0            60.8              349.8                10,550
1984            211.0             34.0             44.0            63.0              352.0                10,550
1985            211.0             34.0             44.0            65.2              354.2                10,550
1986            211.0             34.0             44.0            67.5              356.5                10,550
Growth Rate       1977-86           0%                0%              0%               3.57.             0.6%
Notes:  1/  Excludes petroleum
2/ 1971-76 data is for July 1 through June 30
1977-86 data is for January 1 through December 31
3/ Based on 507. of import volume, taken at 20 revenue tons per container
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
July 1977



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$-000)
Economic    Ship Wait-            Ship Turnaround Time          Inland Transport Costs        Bonded       Cargo Handling Costs            Total Net
Year    Costs         ing Time 1/          Coastal 1/ Overseas y            Containers I/              Cargo 3/    Overseas 4/   Coastal 5/    benefits
1978       960                                                                                                                                        (960)
1979     3,465                                                                                                                                      (3,465)
1980     3,480                                                                                                                                      (3,480)
1981       450            681                278         115                        99                  138            50             187            1,098
1982                      681                283         115                        99                  138            50             191            1,557
1983                      681                288         115                        99                  138            50             194            1,565
1984                      681                294         115                        99                  138            50              198           1,575
1985                      681                299         115                        99                  138             50             202           1,584
1986                      681                304         115                        99                  138             50             206           1,593
1987                      681                310         115                        99                  138             50             211           1,604
1988                      681                310         115                        99                  138             50             211           1,604
1989                      681                310         115                        99                  138            50              211           1,604
1990                      681                310         115                        99                  138             50             211           1,604
1991                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211           1,604
1992                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211           1,604
1993                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211            1,604
1994                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211            1,604
1995                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211            1,604
1996                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211            1,604
1997                      681                310         115                        99                   138            50             211            1,604
1998                      681                310          115                       99                   138            50             211            1,604
1999                      681                310          115                       99                   138            50             211            1,604
2000                      681                310          115                       99                   138            50             211            1,604
Economic Costs             8,355                                 Rate of Return              14%
Expected Price Increases 1,200
Technical Assistance          270
Floating Craft                365
Samarai Project               310
Total Project Cost        10,500
1/ Ships' operating cost in port, taken at US$213 per hour 'or container ships,
US$100 per hour for other overseas ships and US$31 per hour for coastal ships.
2/ Avoided cost of transporting containers from Main Wharf to Shed 4 area. Estimated at US$18.75 for the two way movement.
3/ kvoided cost of transport of imports to bonded storage. Calculated at 3\'h of imports handled through transit sheds.
4/ Calculated at US$0.20 per ton. Labor savings taken at 50% of market value.
5/ Calculated at US$21 per gang hour. Labor savings taken at 50% of market value.
Source: Port Operations Consultants, PNGHB and Bank Staff
August 1977
0m



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
PNGHB Tariffs: Current and Recommended
Tariff Charges Effective September 30, 1976                      Tariff Charges Assumed in Financial Forecasts
Overseas Cargo           Coastal Cargo                      Overseas Cargo                      Coastal Cargo
Cargo                                       Unit                     (Rate Per Unit)           (Rate Per Unit)                   (Rate Per Unit)                      (Rate Per Unit)
Inward           Outward    Inward        Outward            Inward            Outward           Inward            Outward
K                K           K            K                  K                 K                 K                   K
Horses, Cattle, Dogs,
Sheep, Goats, Pigs                         Each animal             1.00               1.00        .40          .40               1.30                1.30             .44                .44
Oils (in Bulk)                             Ton,  of
Petroleum (in Bulk)                        1,000 litres             .44                .35        .35          .35                 .44                .35             .35                .35
Bunkers
Boats, Iron, Tanks (empty)                 Meter length           10.00              10.00       1.50         1.50              13.00               13.00            1.65                1.65
Charcoal, Coal, Coke, Road                 Ton   weight            1.00               1.00       1.00         1.00               1.30                1.30            1.10                1.10
Metal, Sand, Soil, Cement,
Returned Empties (including
containers and pallets)
Copra, Cocoa, Coffee,                      Ton    weight           1.50               1.00        .90          .90               1.95                1.30             .99                 .99
Bagged Agricultural Produce
Goods not enumerated above                 Ton. yeight             1.50               1.00       1.00         1.00               1.95                1,30            1.10                1.10
or Im
whichever is
greater
Overseas                        Coastal                        Overseas                            Coastal
Berthage                                   Meter-hour               .20                           .06                              .34                                .066
Container                                  Container                -                              _                             10.00
97.00 V
Port Dues                                  Meter                   2.00                          4.00                             2.00                                4.00
Cargo Dues                                 Ton                       .10                          .10                              .10                                  .10
Storage                                    Ton-day                   .50               -          .50                              .50                                  .50
(levied after
expiration of
seven days)
Stevedoring Charge                                                                                                              150,000 p.a.3/
(Port Moresby)                                                                                                                 350,000 p.a.4/
1/ effective all ports June 30, 1978
2/ effective in Lae, January 1, 1979
and in all ports January 1, 1980
3/ effective January 1, 1979
4/ effective January 1, 1981.
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



TABLE 10
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
PNGHB Income Accounts: 1974-82
(K'O00)
1/                                                         2/3/
Actual                                                   Forecast
1974       1975       1976       1977                1978       1979        1980       1981       1982
Operating Revenues
Port and Cargo Dues                          55         46         46         136                 135        135        135        135        135
Berth Reservations                           50         37          39         39                  42         42         42         42          42
Storage                                     168        248        146        295                  326        315        304        293        281
Electricity                                  57         58         46          13                 -          -          -          -           -
Licenses                                     13         15          15         59                  40         40         40         40         40
Pilotage                                    -          -          -           176                 255        300        349        404        465
Berthage                                    632        709        593         994               1,099        823        987        979        966
Wharfage                                  1,512      1,716      1,472      1,853                1,950      1,582      1,597      1,606      1,614
Container                                   -          -          -           -                   148      1,668      2,895      2,905      2,920
Rental                                      -          -          -          -                    -          150        150        350        350
Other                                        57         61        139        276                  218        233        250        267        286
Total Operating Revenues                  2,544      2,890      2,496      3,841               4,213       5,288      6,749      7,021      7,099
Operating Expenses
Operating                                   212        238        200        251                 280         300        321        343        367
Administrative and Management               749      1,145      1,393       1,302               1,620      1,840      2,038      2,230      2,451
Insurance                                    51        111        245        335                  150        269        322        184        197
Pilotage                                    -          -          -           39                 255         300        349        404        465
Total Working Expenses                    1,012      1,494       1,838     1,927               2,305       2,709      3,030      3,161      3,480
Depreciation                                316        634        838         934               1,010      1,137      1,281      1,326      1,329
Total Operating Expenses                  1,328      2,128      2,676      2,861               3,315       3,846      4,311      4,487      4,809
Operating Surplus                         1,216        762       (180)       980                  892      1,442      2,438      2,534      2,290
Interest Earned                              49        167         148         84                  92         74         49         60         62
Interest Charge                             102        264        443        492                  579        708        820        881        929
Net Revenae Surplus before Dividend   1,163            665        (475)       572                 261        808      1,667      1,713      1,423
Dividend                                    -          -           150        -                   -          -        1,452      2,139      1,114
Net Revenue Surplus after Dividend    1,163            665       (625)       572                 411         808        215       (426)       309
Sinking Fand Appropriation                   38         29         48         65                 -            24         29         29         29
Revenue Surplus to Balance Sheet          1,125        636       (673)       507                 411         784        186       (455)       280
Ratio:  Operating                            52         74        107         74                  79          73         64         64         68
Times Interest Earned               12.Ox        2.9x       (.4x)      2.Ox                1.6x       2.Ox       3.Ox       2.9x       2.5x
1/ Year ending June 30
2/ Year ending December 31
3/ Estimate for June 30, 1977-Decembr 31, 1977 not included
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
PNGHB Balance Sheets 1974 - 1982
(K'000)
Actual 1i                                                                 Forecast 2/ 3/
1974        1975            1976            1977                   1978             1979            1980            1981            1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and short-term deposits                   800        1,600          1,300           1,960                  1,861            1,235            1,511          1,566             1,651
Other                                          153         241            248              251                    250              314              400            417               421
Total current assets                           953       1,841          1,548            2,211                  2,111            1,549            1,911          1,983            2,072
Fixed Assets
Gross non-depreciable                        1,641       4,001          4,313           4,324                   4,324           4,324             4,324          4,324            4,324
Gross depreciable                           9,142       21,511         25,078          28,109                  31,018          37,178            39,678         39,878           39,878
Subtotal                                   10,783       25,512         29,391          32,433                  35,342          41,502            44,002         44,202           44,202
Less accumulated depreciation                 642        3,577          4,786           6,206                   7,758           8,895            10,176         11,502            12,831
Net fixed assets in operation               10,141      21,935         24,605           26,227                 27,584           32,607           33,826         32,700            31,371
Work in progress                             2.410        1,616            696           1,557                   1,750            -                -             1,000             3,500
Total fixed assets                          12,551      23,551         25,301           27,784                 29,334           32,607           33,826         33,700            34,871
Investments                                      145          178            519             682                   1,015           1,308            1,630          1,818             2,035
TOTAL ASSETS                                  13,649      25,570         27,368           30,677                 32,460           35,464           37,367         37,501            38,978
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                              640        1,114            500             958                     832             880              824             854              908
Dividend                                         -            -              150              -                      -                -
Long-term Debt                                2,267        5,270          6,734            7,348                  8,258           10,184           11,635         12,006            12,932
Funds and Reserves
Sinking Fund                                   178          207            254             319                     347             404              472             546              627
Insurance Reserve                              190          299           417              580                     715             904            1,158           1,272            1,408
Total funds and reserves                       368          506            671             899                   1,062           1,308            1,630           1,818            2,035
Equity Accounts
Capital                                     6,335         7,830          7,830           7,830                   7,830           7,830            7,830           7,830            7,830
Appropriation Account                        3,746       4,382           3,709           4,216                   5,052           5,836            6,022           5,567            5,847
Revaluation Reserve                            293       6,438          7,774            9,426                  9,426            9,426            9,426          9,426             9,426
Total Equity                                10,374      18,650          19,313          21,472                 22,308           23,092           23,278         22,823            23,103
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                  13,649      25,570          27,368          30,677                 32,460           35,464           37,367          37,501           38,978
Ratios:  Current                                   1.5          1.7            3.1             2.3                     2.5             1.8               2.3            2.3              2.3
Debt/Equity                             18/82        22/78          26/74           25/75                   27/73            31/69            33/67          34/66             36/64
Jr  Year ending  June 30.
2/   Year ending December 31.                                                                                                                                                                  H
3/   Estimate for June 30, 1977 - December 31, 1977 not included.
Source:PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



TABLE 12
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND FORT PROJECT
PNGHB Cash Flow Data - 1978 - 1982
(K' 000)
F o r e c a s t
1978               1979               1980              1981              1982
CASH REQUIRED
A. Capital Investment Program
Ports I Project                        460                -                  -                 -
Ports II Project                     1,750              4,010              1,640              200
Other                                  545                400                860            1,000              2,500
Total                                2,755              4,410              2,500            1,200              2,500
B.  Debt Service
Interest                               579                708                820              881                929
Repayments                             419                353                353              353                353
998              1,061              1,173            1,234              1,282
C.  Change in Operating Working Capital (204)                  16                142               (13)               (50)
(other than cash)
D.  Dividend Payment to Government          -                  -               1,452            2,139               1,114
E.  Payment to Insurance Fund              150                150                150              -
F.  Total Cash Required                  3,699              5.637              5,417            4,560              4,846
CASH AVAILABLE
A.  Internally Generated Cash
Operating Surplus                      898              1,442              2,438            2,534              2,290
Depreciation                         1,010              1,137              1,281            1,326              1,329
Insurance Provision                     -                 108                150              -                  -
Interest Earned                         92                 74                 49               60                 62
Total Internally Generated Cash    2,000                2,761              3,918            3,920              3,681
B.  Long-Term Loans                      1,260              2,250              1,775              695               1,250
C.  Cash Available,Beginning of Year   2,300                1,861              1,235            1,511              1,566
D.  Total Cash Available                 5,560              6,872              6,928            6,126              6,497
E.  Cash at End of Year                  1,861              1,235              1,511            1,566               1,651
Ratios:  Debt Service Coverage               1.9x               2.4x               3.2x              3.lx               2.8x
Return on Average Net               3.3%               4.8%               7.3%             7.6%               7.1%
Fixed Assets in Operation
1/ Year ending December 31
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
March 1978



TABLE 13
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
P1GHB Debt Service
(K'000)
Interest
Administration       on onlent           IBRD         Lae Project
Loans             IDA Credit          Loan            Loan           Total
1978                  87                  459              33                -              579
1979                  87                  451             170                -              708
1980                  87                  428             305                -              820
1981                  87                  404             371               19              881
1982                  87                  380             378               84              929
Sinking Fund and Amortization
1978                  95                  324              -                 -              419
1979                  29                  324              -                 -              353
1980                  29                  324              -                 -              353
1981                  29                  324              -                 -              353
1982                  29                  324              -                 -              353
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Port Moresby Income Accounts: 1976 - 1982
(K'O00)
Actual(l)                                                      Forecast (2,3)
1976         1977                    1978            1979            1980            1981           1982
Operating Revenues
Port and Cargo Dues                                       11           26                      26              26               26             26              26
Berth Reservations                                        11           11                       11             11               11             11              11
Storage                                                   24           54                      52              50              48              46              44
Electricity                                                8           -                        -              -                -              -
Licenses                                                   4            8                        8              8                8              8               8
Pilotage                                                   -           37                      54              63               96            112             128
Berthage                                                 148          227                     271             273              225            227             229
Wharfage                                                 357          409                     444             446              320            322             324
Container                                                  -            -                      53             106           1,023           1,023           1,023
Rental                                                     -            -                        -            150              150            350             350
Other                                                     15           41                      44              47               50             54              58
Total Operating Revenues                                 578          813                     963           1,180           1,957           2,179
Operating Expenses
Operating                                                 39           48                      55              59               63             67              72
Administrative and Management                            236          209                      250            289              321            355             393
Overhead                                                 144          151                     164             179              253            274             296
Pilotage                                                  -            11                       54             63               96            112             128
Insurance                                                 38           70                      32              94              122             70              75
Total Working Expenses                                   457          489                      555            684              855            878             964
Depreciation                                             118          135                      184            280              394            422             422
Total Operating Expenses                                 575          624                      739            964            1,249          1,300           1,386
Operating Surplus                                          3          189                      224            216              708            879             815
Ratios: Operating                                         99           77                       77             82               64              60             63
Return on Average Net
Fixed Assets in Operation                                 .1          3.9                      3.7            2.5              6.0             7.2            6.9
(1) Year ending June 30
(2)  Year ending December 31
(3)  Estimates for June 30, 1977 - December 31, 1977 not included
Source: PNGHB and Bank Staff
February 1978



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORT PROJECT
Berthage/Wharfage Combinations Yielding
7.1% Return on Assets in 1982
80                                       (Assumption: US$134/Container)
70
60
50
8  40
30
20-
10 \
10      20       30       40       50       60       70       80       90       100      110      120
% Overseas Berthage Increase
VVorld Bank - 17857



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Construction Schedulea/
Calendar year                  1978                                      1979                       1         1980
Quarter ending:    Jun 30       Sep 30      Dec 31      Mar 31       Jun 30      Sep 30      Dec 31      Mar 31       Jun 30
1. Reclamation dredging
2. Wharf structure                                                                       -
3. Transit shed                                        _
4. Offices & ancillary works                                                                         -
5. Improvements to road
6. Coastal facilities at Samarai                                                           -
7. Floatingequipment
8. Consultant services             *       m _  _  * *-                                                                          - __
a/ Tender let May 1978 for civil works.
Tender let Feb 1978 for pilot launches.
World Bank - 18839
Ak 4



W2h.,f F.c                             ;=        :t0    ;     :Q1
Woter OOm-  ~ ~   l _  J   _ il:  k   wOm  Fill   e2AmC   t  ;;  2>00 0  0   0  i:    ;  0;;  ;;  0  0   E  FllIBRDf 300
-IO <.St.,+Eitigm   0 0r   Or   Fill'g  
_; _  ;;_   __ _;_   _   =   S f CT lON  A   g  .R -rnR-1,,A-;.,       fili ; j
X 0 i . , h :,0 7, , : z ' ' ,, j  3   0   '  5    
DA*  WA  gilit!  -10M Dlstag  5ondn
KRNi   /<.   -taf.,S,li',; '',''  i,   ' ,//
k  sX  t=    S  W   S ///    /  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_>~~~<_ tWs~~~~7
I w \ \r) E Q 4 ;< g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ .,,  .hrC,,
OK27~~~~~5'     T**e  kSqS~garE2i
L_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi, ____A- 1



