CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1551 PNG
Project Agreement
(Second Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PAPUA NEW GUINEA HARBOURS BOARD
Dated May 18, 1978


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
the PAPUA NEW GUINEA HARBOURS BOARD (hereinafter called PNGHB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that PNGHB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PNGHB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to PNGHB on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PNGHB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARKICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PNGHB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and port management practices, and shall provide, or


﻿-2-
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PNGHB in the preparation of
detailed engineering and specifications for, and in the supervision
of the construction of the Project PNGHB shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except-as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PNGHB undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PNGHB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PNGHB shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PNGHB shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PNGHB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,


﻿-3-
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.06. PNGHB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PNGHB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PNGHB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PNGHB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PNGHB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PNGHB
Section 3.01. PNGHB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. PNGHB shall at all times continue to employ a
competent chief financial officer and a competent chief engineer
and will, until December 31, 1985, ensure that the qualifications
and experience of any successors to the persons presently holding
these positions are satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. PNGHB shall, after the completion of Parts A
(i) (a) and (b) of the Project close the APC wharf at Port
Moresby to cargo ships with a length of more than 10 meters.
Section 3.04. PNGHB shall: (i) make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for one stevedoring firm or consortium to be respon-
sible, with effect from January 1, 1979, for all handling opera-
tions at the new container terminal at Port Moresby; and (ii)


﻿-4-
employ with effect from such date a container terminal super-
intendent, whose qualifications and experience shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, who will be responsible for the operation of
the Port Moresby container terminal.
Section 3.05. PNGHB shall continue at all times to:
(a) operate and maintain, its facilities, equipment and
property and from time to time make, or cause to be made, all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
sound administrative, engineering and financial port management
practices; and
(b) employ sufficient qualified and experienced staff to
manage its affairs, plan its future operations and maintain its
financial position in accordance with sound administrative,
engineering and financial port management practices that are
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.06. PNGHB shall: (i) introduce and carry out, in
a manner and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank, a program of staff training to ensure that an adequate
number of trained staff are available, particularly in the fields
of engineering and accounting, to manage, operate and maintain its
facilities, equipment and property; and (ii) employ consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist PNGHB in
the preparation of such program of staff training.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PNGHB shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property or assets, which shall be required for the
efficient conduct of its operations.
Section 3.08. PNGHB shall: (i) by March 31, 1979, complete,
or cause to have completed by consultants, a study to determine
the cost of the services and facilities provided within each major
port operated by PNGHB, the terms of reference for such study to
be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) promptly implement the
recommendations made in such study which are acceptable to the
Borrower, the Bank and PNGHB and thereafter review such study
annually to determine whether any further changes in PNGHB's
tariff of dues and rates are necessary to ensure that PNGHB


﻿-5-
complies, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, with the pro-
visions of Section 4.04 (c) of the Prior Project Agreement, which
is set forth in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, within
each such major port.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PNGHB shall continue to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. PNGHB shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements including cash flow statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
PNGHB and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) It is agreed by the Bank, acting on behalf
of the Association, and PNGHB that Section 4.03 of the Prior Proj-
ect Agreement is hereby deleted and, except as the Borrower
and the Bank may otherwise agree, PNGHB shall review its tariff of
dues and rates and take, with effect from January 1, 1979, and as
necessary from time to time thereafter, action satisfactory to the
Bank, including but not limited to adjustments in its tariff of
dues and rates, to enable PNGHB to obtain annual rates of return
on the value of its net fixed assets in operation of not less
than: (i) 4% for the year ending December 31, 1979; and (ii) 7.0%
during each succeeding fiscal year;
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the operat-
ing surplus for that year to the average of the


﻿-6-
value of the net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "operating surplus" shall mean the differ-
ence between (A) operating revenue and (B) operat-
ing and administrative expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation, but excluding inter-
est and other charges on debt and income taxes (if
any); and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation. The
value of gross fixed assets in operation shall mean
gross fixed assets as revalued from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.06 of
this Agreement, and the depreciation referred to in
sub-section (ii) shall mean the depreciation
calculated on such revalued assets.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may other-
wise agree, PNGHB shall, prior to undertaking any construction
projects (excepting the Project specified in the Loan Agreement)
which in any one year involve expenditures in excess of Kina
600,000 during the years ending December 31, 1978, and
December 31, 1979, and Kina 1,000,000 during each succeeding year
until December 31, 1982, obtain the approval of the Bank to the
financial plans in respect of such projects.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PNGHB
shall comply with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the Prior
Project Agreement regarding its debt service coverage, which
is set forth in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PNGHB
shall employ consulting engineers, whose qualifications and
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, to revalue PNGHB's assets every three
years, with the first such revaluation to be completed by
December 31, 1978.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
S'ction 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PNGHB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify PNGHB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For PNGHB:
The Secretary
Papua New Guinea Harbours Board
P.O. Box 671
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:                     Telex:
HARBOURS                          NE 22243
Port Moresby
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PNGHB may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of PNGHB or such other person or persons as the Chairman
of PNGHB shall designate in writing, and the Chairman of PNGHB
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Director
Country Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office
PAPUA NEW GUINEA HARBOURS BOARD
By /s/ Paulius Matane
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
3.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under the Project, PNGHB shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publicz.ion of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. PNGHB shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to PNGHB of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 10 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Papua New Guinea if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Bank and PNGHB
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Papua New Guinea equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Papua New Guinea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offereO in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of L,ch goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 11 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. PNGHB shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by PNGHB to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of PNGHB's decision, and PNGHB
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and all con-
tracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PNGHB shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PNGHB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants for Parts A (i)
(a), (b) and (c) of the Project, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform PNGHB and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
PNGHB shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and PNGHB and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Part A:   Section 4.04. (c) Promptly thereafter, but in any event
by a date not later than July 1, 1976 or such later date
as shall be agreed to by the Association [Sic: PNGHB
shall] take all necessary measures to introduce and
maintain tariffs of dues and rates, on the following
basis:
(i) dues and rates will be set as far as practi-
cable for each port individually;
(ii) dues and rates will be levied for all ships
and goods using the ports' facilities and
services; and
(iii) except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, dues and rates for
services and facilities will be based on,
and not less than, the economic costs of
those services and facilities, and will
take into account the desirability of ensuring
that a sufficient proportion of total economic
benefits (particularly those enjoyed by ships)
resulting from the port investments accrue to
the economy of Papua New Guinea.
Part B:   Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, PNGHB shall not incur any debt unless its
net revenue for the fiscal year next preceding the date
of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ending prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
is greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maxi-
mum debt service requirements for any succeeding year
on all the debt of PNGHB, including the debt to be
incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section: (i) the
term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by PNGHB, except debt incurred in the ordi-
nary course of business and maturing by its terms on
demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
on which a contract or loan agreement or guarantee


﻿-14-
agreement is executed; (iii) the term "net revenue
means gross operating revenue of PNGHB, adjusted to
take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period
to which such revenue relates, less all operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if
any, and administrative expenses, but before provision
for depreciation, and interest and other charges on
debt; (iv) the term "debt service requirements" means
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund provisions), interest and other charges on debt;
and (v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in
the currency used in the territory of the Borrower
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which
such other currency is obtainable by PNGHB, at the time
such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or if such other currency is not obtainable,
at a rate of exchange reasonably determined by the
Association.


