CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1551 PNG
Loan Agreement
(Second Ports Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 18, 1978


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1978, between the INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait
Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) equivalent
to about three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000),
to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Kuwait Fund;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Papua New Guinea
Harbours Board (hereinafter called PNGHB) with the Borrover's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to PNGHB the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and PNGHB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PNGHB of even date herewith, as the name may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"    means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PNGHB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" and "Prior Project
Agreement" mean the two agreements entered into on July 21, 1972,
between the Borrower and the Association and the Association and
PNGHB respectively, for the purpose of the first Ports Project,
as such agreements may have been amended from time to time; and
(d) "Act" means the Harbours Board Act 1963 (No. 17 of
1964) as amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods and for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and PNGHB of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. Subject to Section 6.05 of the General Condi-
tions the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through PNGHB and shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PNGHB to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) To assist PNGHB in carrying out the Project the Borrower
shall: (i) make available to PNGHB the proceeds of the Kuwait Fund
Loan; and (ii) relend the proceeds of the Loan to PNGHB under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and PNGHB, the terms and conditions of which shall have been
approved by the Bank.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken:
(a) all such action as shall be necessary to lease to PNGHB
by January 1, 1979, or such later date as may be agreed with the
Bank, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required by PNGHB for carrying out Parts A (i) (a), (b) and (c) of
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land have been
leased to PNGHB; and
(b) all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution
and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) by January 1, 1980,
complete, or cause to have completed by consultants, a feasibility
study to determine what action, if any, is necessary to improve
the access roads to the port at Port Moresby, the terms of refer-
ence for such study to be satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) exchange
views with the Bank regarding the recommendations made in such
study; and (iii) take, or cause to be taken, by January 1, 1982,
all such action as shall be necessary to implement, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, the 'recommendations made in such study
that are acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. Promptly after completion of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and
PNGHB of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso frcto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to cause PNGHB to:


﻿-6-
(i) make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
for one stevedoring firm or consortium to be
responsible for all handling operations at the new
container terminal at Port Moresby; and
(ii) carry out the next stage of port development
at Port Moresby to the north of, and contiguous
with, the area being developed under the Project
specified in this Agreement.
Section 4.03. It is agreed by the Borrower and by the Bank,
acting on behalf of the Association, that Section 3.03 of the
Prior Development Credit Agreement shall be deleted and, in place
thereof, the Borrower hereby agrees to take all such action as
shall be necessary to permit PNGHB to set and maintain its tariff
of dues and rates at levels which enable it to obtain the annual
rates of return specified in Section 4.03 of the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not permit PNGHB to undertake
any construction projects (excepting the Project specified in
the Loan Agreement) which in any one year involve expenditures
in excess of Kina 600,000 during the years ending December 31,
1978, and December 31, 1979, and Kina 1,000,000 during each suc-
ceeding year until December 31, 1982, without obtaining the
approval of the Bank to the financial plans in respect of such
projects.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) PNGHB shall have failed to perform any obligation of
PNGHB under the Project Agreement or the Prior Project Agreement;
(b) PNGHB shall have become unable to pay any of its debts
as they mature;
(c) the Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely


﻿-7-
affect the ability of PNGHB to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other Authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PNGHB or for the suspension of its operations;
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that PNGHB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Kuwait Fund Loan for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, or
(B) the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of PNGHB under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and PNGHB;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-8-
30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and PNGHB;
(c) the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (A) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 90 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(d) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (f) (i)
(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(b) the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Bank and PNGHB; and
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PNGHB.
-         Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund and
is legally binding on the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund in accor-
dance with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PNGHB, and is legally binding upon PNGHB in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PNGHB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PNGHB in accordance with its terms.


﻿-9-
Section 6.03. The date August 16, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Finance
Department of Finance
Post Office Ward's Strip
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:                     Telex:
TREASURER                           FINANCE
Boroko                              NE22312
Papua New Guinea
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s/ Paulius Matane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /sf Stanley Please
Director
Country Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   2,400,000        32%
under Part
A of the
Project
(2) Pilot launches                  160,000        45%
(3) Consultants'                    390,000        50%
services,
technical
assistance
and training
(4) Unallocated                     550,000
TOTAL          3,500,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may
be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of pay-
ments made for such expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1978.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, following an exchange of views with the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower and PNGHB cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's-reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
(i) At Port Moresby:
(a) land reclamation adjacent to the existing port,
to increase the total area available for container
operations to about 4.2 hectares;
(b) the construction of a new berth approximately
125 meters in length suitable for container operations,
on the seaward face of the reclaimed area, with a depth
of at least 10 meters at low water ordinary spring
tides;
(c) an extension of about 3,300 square meters to the
existing container freight station; and
(d) the improvement of the roads adjacent to the
port.
(ii) At Samarai:
The construction of a new berth approximately 30 meters
in length suitable for coastal shipping to replace the
existing berth, with a depth of at least 5 meters at low
water ordinary spring tides.
Part B:   Equipment
The provision of pilot launches.
Part C:   Consultants' services, technical assistance and training
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1984
through   January 1, 1998                    115,000
On July 1, 1998                                   165,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.15%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                6.00%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                6.75%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                7.50%


