Documnt of
The World Bank
FOM OUFICIAL USE ONLY
QJ 300OS- OR,
Riu N. P4718-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
November 9, 1988
Department II
Country Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURU6Y 3QUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit - Colon (4))
Calendar 1987
Currency Unit        Average        December 31, 1967       June 30, 1988
US$i                * 63.205            0 69.750               N 76.000
0 1                 US$0.016            US$0.014               US$0.013
N 1,000            US$15.820           US$14.337              US$13.158
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBRI!VIATIONS
CACM                -  Central American Common Market
CAT                 -  Tax Rebate Certificate
CNP                 - National Production Council
CODESA              -  National Development Corporation
GATT                -  General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
INCOFER             - National Railroad Company
LACSA               -  Costa Rica's National Airline
RECOPE              -  Costa Rica's Nation,  Refinery
SIECA               -  Central American Common Market Executive Secretary



FC W"VtL WE ONLY
COSTA RICA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:               US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Description:          The proposed loan would support the Government's
structural adjustment program. The main areas covered
by the Government's medium-term program include:
(i) measures to improve incentives to stimulate
private savings and investment in export oriented
activities; (ii) measures to increase public savings
and the efficiency of the public sector investment
program; (iii) measures to improve the public
commercial banks' mobilization and allocation of
resources; and (iv) measures to improve the
productivity of the private agricultural sector.
Project Benefits:    The adjustment program would accelerate exports and
increase domestic savings while creating the pre-
conditions for a recovery of economic growth and
employment. The program is expected to support the
country's recovery and creditworthiness facilitating
the country's access to external financial flows
needed to attain long-term sustainable growth.
Project Risks:        The principal risk centers on the Government's ability
to reach the required political consensus to avoid
excessive delays in the pace of implementation of the
reforms. Another major risk centers on the
Government's abil_ty to generate the required public
savings, on negative shifts on Costa Rica's terms of
trade and on the country's capacity to obtain
sufficient foreign capital during the initial years of
the program. Furthermore, to the extent that Costa
Rica's tariff reform depends on agreement with its
Common Market partners, difficulties in reaching
agreement could slow the speed of tariff reforms
affecting the overall success of the adjustment
program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
1stimated
Disburemmnte:         The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in three
tranches: US$40 million equivalent upon
effectiveness, US$35 million equivalent after a
satisfactory performance review in July 1989, and the
remaining US$25 million equivalent after a
satisfactory performance review to be held in Janu&ry
1990. Retroactive financing will be permitted for
those eligible imports made before the date of the
Loan Agreement but not before Hay 1, 1988, up to an
amount equal to US$20 million.
Appraisal Report:    This is a combined staff appraisal and President's
Report.
Map:                  IBRD 17339



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC.TION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED SECOND STPUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.       I submit the following report and reconmendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 1I) to the Republic of Costs Rica
for the equivalent of US$100.0 million. The loan would have a term of
17 years. including four yeazs of grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate.
2.       On April 16, 1985, the Executive Directors approved an US$80
million SAL to Costa Rica in support of the Government's medium-term
adjustment program. Disbursement of the loan's final tranche occurred in
June 1986. A trade report on Costa Rica (Report No. 6240-CR) was
circulated to the Executive Directors in Mey 1987; subsequent Country
Briefs have updated that analysis, the latest of which was circulated to
the Board in January 1988. The Government formally requested a second SAL
in March 1987 to continue the support of the country's adjustment program.
In Mav and September 1987, and February 1988, three missions visited Costa
Rica to appraise the Government's economic adjustment program. In February
1988 another mission also visited the country to prepare P Country Economic
Memorandum. The conclusions of these missions are reflected in this
report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
3.       Costa Rica's potential to attain sustainable growth and
development lies in its substantial human and natural resources. This
potential has beeui demonstrated in part by the 1985-87 expansion of its
non-traditional exports. It is now clear that when supported by export-
oriented measures, Costa Rica's private sector is capable to invest and
diversify into non-traditional exports at an accelerated pace. The key,
therefore, to restoring Costa Rica's creditworthiness is to maintain
economic policies which will encourage the much needed investment to
achieve the full export potential that exists in the agricultural and
industrial sectors.
4.       During the 1960s and 1970s, unemployment and social indicators
improved significantly, and Costa Rica enjoyed growth rates close to
6 percent per year. Agriculture and industry played important roles in
this expansion, with agriculture growing at an average 4.2 percent per
annum and industry at 8.8 percent per annum until the late 1970s. In
particular, with the strong boost provided by the Central American Common
Market (CACM)  .tanufacturing expanded from a small base to become one of
the largest sectors in the economy. Despite heavy dependence on two export
crops (coffee and bananas), whose international prices fluctuated widely,
balance of payments difficulties did not result in major macroeconomic
crises as foreign reserves were largely used to avoid economic downturns.



-2-
5.       As the economy expanded and with no military expenditures, the
Government concentrated on providing infrastructure and meeting social
needs. Comprehensive medical coverage and major strides in controlling
water borne disease* resulted in dramatic improvements in public health.
Infant mortality rates fell sharply from 71.8 per thousand in 1965 to 19.2
per thousand by 1984. The average life expectancy increased from 55 to 73
years, placing Costa Rican standards among those of more developed
countries. Widespread social security coverage and family assistance
programs brought about sharp drops in malnutrition and prenatal death rates
in low-income aeighborhoods. Combined with a major eowerage and water
supply expansion, these social services have placed Costa Rica's health and
social indices among the best in the Western Hemisphere.
6.       The education system also expanded rapidly, with enrollment ratios
reaching about 100 percent for primary education, over 40 percent for
secondary education, and about 20 percent for university education.
Liberal wage laws protected the worker and guaranteed him a minimal income.
Not surprisingly, the country possesses one of the best educated work
forces and most equitable income distributions in Latin America. Although
there has been some deterioration in the education and health care services
in the last few years, these social and economic achievements were major
factors in the country's ability to maintain social and political stability
amidst the turmoil that has surrounded Central America since the late
1970s.
7.       Costa Rica's rapid growth and social progress during the 1960s and
1970s, however, masked growing structural problems. By the late 1970s,
demand for the country's traditional exports had lost their dynamism,
demand for exports in the CACM had peaked, and a burgeoning state sector
was severely restricting the economy's flexibility to adjust to changing
international conditions. Once the easy stage of import substitution was
completed, the productive sectors also lost their growth momentum. The
slowdown in Central American trade, the anti-export bias of the trade
regime and related Government policies, the uncontrolled growth of the
public sector, an inadequate domestic savings effort and an inefficient
financial intermediation process combined with unfavorable external shoks
to produce a crisis that led to high indebtedness, declining GDP and high
inflation rates in the 1980-82 period. During 1984, drastic fiscal
measures, a macroeconomic policy mix supportive of a real devaluaLion,
increased capital flows and an improvement in the terms of trade resulted
in substantial GDP growth and a steep drop in the rate of inflation.
8.       During 1985, the Government undertook a stabilization program with
the support of an IMF Stand-by, and initiated an adjustment effort which
the Bank supported with the first US$80 miliion SAL. Complementing our
funds, Costa Rica's commercial creditors provided a US$75 million new-money
facility and fully rescheduled principal obligations falling due in
1985-86. In addition, the Government also reached agreement through the
Paris Club to reschedule principal and interest on official bilateral debt
falling due during 1985.
9.       The recovery obtained was fragile.  As the terms of trade
deteriorated, the heavy payments on the external debt were not serviced and
Costa Rica was unable to comply fully with its stabilization program. The
public sector deficit--including Central Bank losses--increased to
7.5 percent of GDP. Reflecting adjustments in the exchange rate and
expansionary domestic policies, the inflation rate reached 15 percent. The



-3-
current account deficit of the balance of payments rose to 8 percent of
GDP. The Government arrears amounted to US$32 million by year's end. GDP
growth averaged only 1 percent.
10.      Stabilization measures were resumed in 1986 reducing the
nonfinanicial public sector deficit, improving interest rate and exchange
rate management, and slowing inflation. By combining an aggressive
exchange rate policy with tighter aggregate demand policies, a real
devaluation of 10 percent was attained. Helped by strong increases in Zion-
traditional exports, increased coffee prices and the fall in petroleum
prices, both the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments
(3.6 percent of GDP), and the public sector deficit (5.5 percent of GDP)
Jecreased. Real GDP grew by 4.6 percent.
11.      The economic recovery continued during 1987.  The incentive
framework for promoting exports to markets outside the region was
strengthened and the Government applied a macroeconomic policy mix which
resulted In a real exchange rate devaluation of nearly 40 percent between
mid- 1985 and December 1987. As a result, export diversification to third
markets accelerated strongly, reducing the impact of the collapse of
exports to the CACM and the deterioration in the prices of Costa Rica's
agricultural exports. Non-traditional exports outside the CACM (including
manufactured and agricultural goods) reached a level of US$370 million in
1987, up from US$144 million in 1983.
12.      Private consumption, however, was not brought in line with lower
income levels. As a result, a surge of 24 percent in real imports ensued.
Combined with a shortfall in projected capital inflows, these events
reduced during 1987 Costa Rica's external reserves by US$70 million and
increased the current account O?ficit of the balance of payments (excluding
transfers) to over 9 percent cc GDP.
13.      Fiscal performance remained strong.  By end 1987, the overall
deficit of the nonfinancial public sector was virtually eliminated.
Moreover, the Authorities undertook to step up the rate of depreciation of
the Colon and the total public sector deficit in 187 (including Central
Bank losses), was reduced to 3 percent of GDP. Fol.lowing a tightening of
credit expansion, the 12-month rate of inflation which had accelerated to
around 20 percent by mid-year was arrested. At the end of 1987, the
December/December inflation stood at 16.8 percent. Real GDP grew 3.9
percent.
14.      By end 1987, total output was 9.5 percent above the pre-recession
level (1980). But, on per capita basis, it remained almost 10 percent
lower and real wages again decreased moderately.
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
15.      The actions taken by the Government during late 1987 and early
1988 augur well for the stabilization process. First, in January 1988, the
authorities made another step devaluation of 6 percent and announced their
determination to maintain the real exchange rate at least at the level
reached by that step. Since the efforts made to tighten credit continue,
these actions will sustain the change in relative cost-price relationships
that will make Costa Rica more competItive.



-4-
16.      Second. the passage in November 1987 of a tax package and the
addition in early 1988 of taxes on automobiles that had been eliminated in
1967, will raise revenues equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP. Combined with
tight expenditure restraint these measures should suffice to achieve
targeted reductions of about 1 percent of GDP in the total public sector
deficit.
17.      Third, progress on the implementation of measures to address the
structural problems constraining growth has contiaued.  The levels and
dispersion of import tariffs have been reduced, and the incentive system
for exports to third markets has improved. Regulations to strengthen the
finanicial system have been implemented and support prices for agricultural
products rationalized, strongly reducing price distortions in the economy.
All of these measures should result in a strong economic performance during
1988. Real GDP is projected to grow over 2 percent, inflation to remain
moderate (16-18 percent) and exports of non-traditional goods to extend the
strong increases attained ir 1986-87 (20 percent) for a third consecutive
year.
18.      Despite the progress achieved, Costa Rica's long-term prospects
remain clouded by the heavy external debt burden of the country. At US$4.2
billion by the end of 1987, Costa Rica's external debt is equivalent to GDP
and three times total exports. Interest payments on an accrual basis
amount to 6 percent of GDP, or 18 percent of its export receipts. Costa
Rica's long-term prospects will only brighten if the sound macroeconomic
policies followed so far continue, and if a viable way to manage and
distribute over time the burden of its external debt is formalized.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMEN1' PROGRAM
A. Progress under SAL I
19.      The Bank and the Government have consistently shared the view that
Costa Rica's long-term development and growth require a sustained program
of adjustment over several years. Overdependence of a few export
commodities has resulted in repeated cycles of boom and bust, broadly
correlated with movements in the terms of trade. Under SAL I the Bank and
the Government agreed to a program whose objectives were: (i) developing
new exports of agricultural and manufactured products with emphasis on
products with higher domestic value added; (ii) strengthening private
sector initiatives, and (iii) reducing the relative size of the public
sector. Within this framework, the first Structural Adjustment Loan
supported actions to rationalize the trade regime, control the size and
improve management of the public sector, and mobilize additional external
resources while improving the overall structure of the country's debt. The
following paragraphs summarize the action program and progress made under
SAL I.
20.      Trade Regime.  Costa Rica led a movement to modernize the regional
trade regime of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Negotiations on
detailed aspects of the new regime were completed by four member countries
(Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua) in September 1985.
Considerable progress was achieved with a reduction of the highest tariff
rates (from 220 to 100 percent), lower average tariff rates on regionally
produced goods, reduced dispersion in rates and elimination of tariff
exemption on imported inputs.



-5
21.      In January 1966, the new tariff regime became effective.  in lime
with the agreement reached with the rest of the CACM countries, the nw
trade regim eliminated all specific tariffs and included only a valor
rates, modernized the nomenclature by converting the classification of
goods to the Brussels code. terminated all xemptions under the Central
American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives, and abrogated the existing
regional invostmnt incentives and the San Jose Protocol import surcharges.
The changes are significant, particularly because they constituted tbh
first ccncrete effort to reform the CAM structure since it was establiabed
over 20 years ago. The revised trade regime resulted in a substantial
reduction in the level and dispersion of protectios rates.
Table 1: COSTA RICA - Comparison of Mean Nominal Rates
Old Regime (pre-1986)           Current Regime  (1987)
Mean     Standard           Mean       Stanidard
Tariff    Deviation         Tariff    Deviation
(2)                          (2)
... .... .... .... .. . ..   . ... ... ..... .. .. ...................... .........
Raw Materials and Intermediates
Non-competing          32.6        29.3            10.3            5.5
Competing              54.3        72.6            30.7           17.4
Capital Goods
Non-Competing          23.7         9.4            17.1            4.8
Competing               73.9       47.3            34.7           20./
Final Goods
Non-Competing
Non-Essentials      135.0        70.7            56.3           35.6
Non-Competing
Esgentials           40.6        27.0             9.7            7.5
Competing              92.5        69.4            50.0           17.5
Whole System              52.8       51.5            26.4           21.4
Source: Bank estimates with data from Ministry of Economy.
22.      Public Sector Management.  The first SAL aimed at limiting the
growth of the public sector, including rationalizing public sector
investment, strengthening budget preparation, control and monitoring,
reducing public employment, and initiating actions to improve the cost
effectiveness of key loss-making institutions. Progress was uneven. On the
positive side, the public sector deficit narrowee, the public investment
program was kept under control and the divestiture of enterprises owned by
the State holding company (CODESA) proceeded at a rapid pace. On the other
hand, during 1985-86 only minor improvements in budgetary planning took
place, public employment increased (albeit at a slower pace than its
historical rate), and the losses of the Government's agriculture marketing
agency (CNP) were not reduced as targeted.
23.      A reduction in public sector employment was to be accomplished
mainly through attrition, with public sector employment levels frozen
beginning March 1984 for three years through 1986. Despite the existence
of legislation establishing the above target, effective implementation



.6 -
proved difficult. This reflects both the long standing emphasis on public
sectur programs, especially in the social sectors, as well ts the
difficulties of curtailing public employment in the year preceding the 1986
elections. As a consequence, the Governrent was unable to comply with the
original SAL condJtionality in this area. However, agreement was reached
with the new Government on a series of *dditional measures to reduce
employment under the next three years to the level of March 1984. These
measures, which received cabinet approval in late Hay 1986, included a
freeze on new positions for the remainder of 1966 and 1987, unless offset
by reductions elsewhere, coupled with a partial filling of vacancies.
24.      CNP, an autonomous Government organitation is responsible for
setting producer prices, and buying and selling basic grains. As a result
of its policy of buyirg at high support prices, and selling at subsidized
prices, CNP acctumulated large losses. To eliminate this drain on public
finances, the SAL program included a phased approach under which CNP's
losses were to be reduced by 50 percent each year beginning in 1985. To
achieve this objective CNF i;troduced a number of measures in 1985. These
included increased consumer prices for corn and beans and steps to
discourage high cost rice production, which had been a major problem in
1983-84. Despite these actions, CNP's deficit increased substantially,
cwini in large part to higher than expected sorghum production, as well as
larger rice purchases than planned.
25.      Given the continuing difficulties with CNP's finances, the
Government decided on a series of additional acticns to reduce CNP's
projected losses in 198611987. These measures included: (i) excluding the
public sector from the marketing of rice and sorghum starting with the
86/87 crop year; and (ii) increasing consumer prices for wheat, beans and
corn, effective June 2, 1985. As a result of these measures CNP's deficit
was reduced to less than 800 million colones over the next 12 mo,iths
period; about half of what the deficit would likely have been without such
actions.
Table 2: COSTA RICA -- CNP Finances, 1986-90
(Z of GDP)
Projected
1986     1987    1988       1989     1990
Currert Revenues           2.4      1.8      1.8       1.8      1.6
Current Expenditures       3.1      2.1      1.9       1.9       1.6
Current Savings           (0.7)    10.3)   (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.0)
(negative)
Source: Ministries of Finance and Agriculture.
26.      Overall progress was found to be satisfactory in respect to
(i) completing a review of the public sector investment program in 1985,
with investment expenditures remaining within 6.5 percent of the GDP
ceiling; (ii) implementing the program for the divestiture of CODESA
enterprises, and (iii) taking initial steps to prepare a program for
modernmization of the industrial sector, with completion of a study
outlining the need for establishment of a private sector
consulting/advisory service to provide direct technical assistance in



-7-
marketing and management to fimse most affected by changes in the trade
regim.
B. Government's 1987-1990 Adjustment Program
27.      On Lprll 10, 1987, the authoritLes presented a documnt to the
Bank outlining the second phase of Costa Rica's adjustmnt strategy.
Besides measures that would deepen the adjustment effort initiated under
SAL I in the trad% regime and management of the public sector, the
Government program included measureq to address structural problems in the
banking system and in the agricultural sector. The latter sector
represents 17 percenit Si GDP and 30 percent of total employmont.
28.      In this second phase of its adjustment program the Government
intends to undertake critical actions in the following areas: (i)
contiruing with the reform of the trade regime and export incentives to
pronvXe increased exports to third markets; (ii) additional steps to
increase public savings, reduce the overall public sector deficit
(including Central Bank losses) and increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of the public sector investment program; (iii) improve the
ability of the financial system to mobilize financial resources; and
(iv) rationalize pricing, marketing and subsidy policies in the
agricultural sector.
29.      Costa Rica's proposed adjustment measures need to be complemented
by efficient management of its external debt. The size of the country's
external debt (about equal to GDP) and its relation to the public sector
deficit has left a legacy that if unattended would result in a strong
constraint for the country's ability to restore long-term economic growth
and creditworthiness. So far, Costa Rica has been able to minimize the
impact of the external debt service only by falling into arrears and
obtaining large amounts of external aid. The Government is taking action,
however, to normalize its arrears situation and to ensure the achievement
of sustainable long-term and creditworthiness (para.55).
Trade Policies
30.      As mentioned, since mid-1985 Costa Rica's macroeconomic policy mix
has led to a 40 percent real depreciation of the exchange rate, a reduction
in the level of and dispersion of tariffs, and an improved export-incentive
system. As a result, exports of non-traditional goods have boomed.



--
Table 3' COSTA RICA - Zxports, 1983-87
(million T1S$)
1963      1984       1985        1986     1967
Pon-traditional
CACM                          197       191         144        99         96
Rest of World                 144        212        195        293        370
0/w Agriculture            (54)       (47)       (33)       (96)       (126)
Industry              (90)       (165)       (160)      (203)     (244)
Total Non-traditional         341        403        339        392        468
Traditional                   532       *03         600        694        646
Total Merchandise Exports   873         1,006       939       1,086      1,114
31.      As part of its agreement with the IMF and the discussions with the
Bank on structural adjustment, the Government has confirmed its decision to
follow exchange rate and supportive macroeconomic policies aimed at
maintaining, and, if necessary, improving the competitiveness of its
exports.
32.      The Costa Rican Government has recognized that it is essential to
continue reducing the levels of, and dispersion of, effective protection
granted to sales for the domestic market and to remove other obstacles to
trade and competition. The Government intends, therefore, to further
reduce the average rate and variance of the present tariff system. Thus,
over a three-year period (textiles, apparel and shoes will take five
years), all tariffs are to be adjusted to a range of 5 to 40 percent with
the exception of non-competing essential goods such as medicines which will
pay a tariff of 1 percent, and some non-competing final goods (primarily
luxury goods such as automobiles, caviar, anchovies), which may be subject
to fiscal tariffs in excess of 40 percent. Within this framework, the
tariffs on raw materialslintermediates and capital goods will have a
ceiling of 20 percent and a floor -' 5 percent.
33.      As part of its 1985186 adjustment program, the Government put into
operation an improved export incentive program. Through an export
contract, individual exporters could obtain total income tax exemption on
profits generated by non-traditional exports, exemption from all import
taxes on all goods used in the production of non-traditional exports to
third markets, and Tax Rebate Certificates (CAT). These contracts, which
are valid for a 12-year period, are a useful tool consolidating all
benefits accruing to the non-traditional exporter. However, they created
other distortions.
34.      Because of the high fiscal cost involved and their distortionary
effects, as the new tariff reform and exchange rate policies proceed, the
Government will modify its export-incentive policy. Under the new
incentive program, CATs are to be eliminated altogether and only
compensatory subsidies in those cases when domestic charges exceed
international ones for certain expenses incurred In the process of export
production such as port charges and costs of electricity and fuel will be
granted. (The exact nature of these subsidies is still to be specified as
part of the ongoing GATT negotiations.) Moreover, to eliminate the bias
against indirect exporters, all producers of intermediate goods to be uaed
as inputs in expcrt production will be given access to the incentive



9 -
benefits. Domestic firms that partially export, and domestic producers
whose inputs are partially destined for export production will also have
access to these benefits on an ex post basis by means of a proposed
*drawback certificate". Notwithstanding this reform, all existing export
contracts agreed on before the change will be honored until their
expiration, unless a beneficiary firm decides to switch over to the new
scheme.
35.      Free trade zone status offers firms the advantages of duty
exonerations on imports, and significantly reduces bureaucratic delays
otherwise encountered in obtaining foreign exchange, permits, and licenses
needed to export. Two free trade zones set up in 1981 under public
administration were unsuccessful. Their failure was partly due to
budgetary difficulties that led to long delays in providing the required
infrastructure, partly due to poor location, and partly due to the attempt
to combine regional development objectives with the export promotion
effort. In 1985, a free trade zone was set up under private administration
and public supervision in Cartago. By June 1987, 17 firms were in
operation, directly employing about 1,800 persons and indirectly
5,000-9,000 persons. Because of its flexible administration, this zone is
thriving and already surpasses the other two zones combined in economic
importance.
36.      As part of its export promotion effort, the Government plans to
establish new free trade zones, modelled after Cartago. To further reduce
bureaucratic delays that hamper the export effort, "one-stop windows which
permit all export requirements to be taken care of in a single step were
established in early 1988 for exporters not associated with free trade
zones. Finally, to improve international transportation, the Government
has placed a private sector representative on the Civil Aviation Board and
has granted several foreign airlines transportation rights to carry-on
conmmercial cargo to and from Costa Rica. Although the airlines involved
are unlikely to pose a major competitive threat to the national airline's
(LACSA) preeminence in the market, their presence should bring abcut strong
improvements in air transport services required for many of Costa Rica's
non-traditional exports. These simple steps are expected to strongly
enhance Costa Rica's export prospects.
Public Sector Finances
37.      As described in para. 13, the Government has brought the overall
accounts of the nonfinancial public sector into equilibrium.
Table 4:  COSTA RICA - Composition of the Public Sector Deficit (2 of GDP)
1981      1984       1986       1987
Central Government                      -5.5       -3.8        -3.4      -2.1
Rest of General Government              -0.7        1.9         1.3       1.5
Public Enterprises                      -8.0        0.0         0.3       0.5
Non-financial public sector deficit  -14.2         -1.9        -1.8      -0.2
Central Bank Losses                      0.0       -4.3        -3.8      -3.0
Total -Public Sector                -14.2       -6.2       -5.6       -3.2



- 10 -
38.      The Government irtends to continue its improvement on the overall
nonfinancial public sector accounts. On the revenue side, the tax package
that was approved in November 1987 by the Legislative Assembly is expected
to raise additional revenues equivalent to about 1.3 percent of GDP, on a
yearly basis. This package calls for substantial increases in the tax
rates on property, real estate, and used cars sales, and for a broadening
of the coverage of the sales tax on services. In addition, the authorities
are taking steps to improve tax collections through administrative
improvements.
39.      On the expenditure side, cuts equivalent to about 0.5 percent of
GDP in 1987 and 1 percent of GDP in 1988, would be achieved by carefully
targeting outlays on welfare, health, vocational training, public transport
programs, and agricultural development. Included is a sharp reduction in
subsidies for basic grains production, through a combination of lower
support prices and smaller purchases of basic grains, which is expected to
reverse the deficit of the grain marketing agency (CNP) from 0.1 percent of
GDP in 1988 to a virti-l equilibrium, by 1990. There will also be a
reduction in public seczor investment. The total fiscal package should
bring the overall non-financial public sector accounts to achieve a surplus
of 0.4 percent GDP in 1988 and of 1 percent by 1989.
40.      A 1988-1990 public investment program has been prepared.  Its
design is consistent with the structural adjustment program by stressing
investment projects that strengthen exports while maintaining existing
infrastructure. During discussions with the Bank, the authorities agreed
to reduce the size of the program by about 1.6 percent of GDP in 1988 by
deferring some projects, reducing the pace of execution of others, and
deleting some others as described in later paragraphs.
Financial Policies
41.      In 1984 the Costa Rican authorities initiated a financial
liberalization program aimed at eliminating controls on interest rates and
credit allocation. By the end of 19V6, banks were essentially free to set
their lending rates subject to a ceil.ng equal to the level of their six-
month borrowing rate plus a spread of 9 points. The Government also
eliminated the detailed progrRms foi the allocation of credit. These
programs established quarterly targets for the volume of credit to be
allocated to each subsector in the economy. Thus, the distortiois
previously created in the Costa Rican financial intermediation process by
Government intervention in interest rate setting and credit allocation have
been almost completely eliminated.
42.      Serious liquidity problems in the private financial sector forced
a substantial credit expansion in late 1987 and early 1988. As a result,
in spite of the Government's commitment to continue the financial
liberalization process initiated in 1984, to comply with the drastic
reduction in credit envisaged in the 1988 monetary program, the authorities
temporarily reinstated the practice of setting ceilings on individual
banks' credit to the private sector under the assumption that recourse to
other instruments, such as increases in the interest paid on public sector
banks and state banks deposits, would have further accelerated the shift of
resources from the troubled private sector financial institutions.
43.      In all, credit ceilings set in January and the temporary
assistance granted to stem the run on private financial institutions should



- 11 -
bring the rate of growth of total credit to the private sector to 10
percent during 1988; a decline from its 24 level in 1987 The authorities,
however, expressed that credit ceilings will be eliminated in 1989.
44.      Despite progress in financial liberalization, a number of problems
still hamper the banking system's ability to mobilize financial resources
in an efficient manner. These include: (i) the quality of the public
banks' loan portfolios; (ii) the discrimination against private banks; and
(iii) the lax supervision of banking institutions coupled with the
operation of a large number of non-regulated intermediaries.
45.      As of September 1986, total overdue loans represented 63 percent
of the public banks' portfolio with about one-half of those overdue loans
considered uncollectable. This was equivalent to nearly US$200
million--almost twice the capital and reserves of public banks. Although
experience in other countries shows that banks can continue operating
without liquidity problems long after they have lost their equity capital,
portfolio problems reduce banks' ability to channel resources to new
productive investments. Moreover, banks have to charge a much higher
margin to those debtors who pay to compensate for the losses arising from
non-performing loans.
46.      To address this issue, the Government has included in its program
a set of actions and regulations aimed at improving both borrowers' and
banks' discipline. These include: i) commitment by the Government to
avoid further generalized debt rescheduling programs; (ii) penalty interest
rates to borrowers that do not pay their debts at maturities;
(iii) prohibition for banks to register as income interest accrued on past
due loans; (iv) reduction in real terms of public banks' arrears; and
(v) reduction of real subsidized credit. The strengthening of the public
commercial banks' portfolio, together with the sound interest-rate policies
followed thus far, should help in bringing real interest rates and bank
spreads to levels closer to international markets (para.85).
47.      Efficiency in resource mobilization through the banking sector
will only improve as public banks are subject to increasing competition.
Discrimination against private banks--in the form of public banks' monopoly
on demand deposits and on deposits with maturities of less than six
months--is being corrected. In September 1987, the Government announced an
18-month action program to permit private banks to intermediate financial
instruments with maturities of less than 180 days but not less than 90
days. This action strengthens the liberalization process of the financial
system and agrees with our own recommended action program. Allowing
private banks to intermediate all types of financial instruments--including
demand deposits--at once would provoke large public banks' losses, creating
serious macroeconomic imbalances as the Central Bank would be forced to
intervene in theit behalf. Deregulation therefore, has to proceed at the
same pace as the strengthening of the public commercial banks' portfolio.
In addition, a gradual approach is recommended considering the short
experience of most private banks as well as the Auditoria General de
Bancos.
48.      As mentioned above (para. 42), lack of a proper regulatory
framework led to the failure ot three private financial institutions
between October 1987, and January 1988. If private intermediaries are to
play a more important role in the market, supervision has to be improved in
order to foster financial prudence and discipline. In addition, the



- 12 -
activities of non-regulated institutions have to be restricted because they
do not comply with monetary regulations (such as reserve requirements),
representing an unfair competition for regulated intermediaries and a risk
to the whole system. To address these problems, in February 1988, the
Central Bank announced the creation of a contingency Fund with resources
provided by the financial intermediaries operating in the stock market to
be used by these institutions in case of new liquidity problems. The
Central Bank also announced that a deposit insurance scheme will be
implemented in the near future. Finally, a nev law to strengthen the
working of Costa Rica's financial system (Ley de Modernizacion del Sistema
Financiero), was approved on October 26, 1988. It sets the basis to
strengthen the Government's Superintendency of Banks (Auditoria) and to
regulate the activities of the non-regulated financial institutions.
Pricing Policies
49.      In the past, the Consejo Nacional de Produccion (CNP) sought to
maintain agricultural producer prices high enough to ensure a large
domestic production of basic foods, while keeping consumer prices low. To
accomplish this, quantitative restrictions were placed on imported grains
and milk, and the CNP bought up domestic surpluses of basic grains and sold
them at subsidized prices to consumers. This system distorted agricultural
production patterns, causing levels of production of basic crops above the
ones that would have resulted from Costa Rica's comparative advantage.
Moreover, large financial losses, resulting from this strategy placed a
heavy burden on the overall public sector budget.
50.      Since 1986, the authorities have enhanced private sector
participation in the marketing of agricultural goodF by limiting CNP's
activities to the purchase of corn and beans and by freezing in nominal
terms the support price of basic grains. As a result, CNP's losses during
1987 resulting from the implicit price subsidy to producers and consumers
fell to about q 800 million (q 1.8 billion in 1986) and the production of
rice, beans and corn has dropped.
51.      Protection levels for basic crops, however, remain high.  In 1987,
support prices for beans were 50 percent higher tbin their international
price, and 60 percent higher in the case of corn. The Government intends
to further correct its agricultural policies. Support prices are to be
progressively reduced in 1988-90 to bring domestic producer prices to
levels no higher than 1.4 times the five-year average of international
prices. At the same time, CNP's marketing activities are to be
increasingly transferred to the private sector, with prices determined
competitively. As a result, CNP's losses should disappear by 1990. The
Government, however, still feels committed to protect certain groups (small
farmers, poor urban dwellers) that benefitted from the old strategy. Under
the new system, these groups are to be assisted in a more direct manner
through clearly targeted support programs whose cost will be explicitly
recognized in the public budget.
52.      Notwithstanding the fall of international oil prices during
1984-86, domestic oil prices were not reduced in Costa Rica. This pricing
strategy enabled the Government's refining company, RECOPE, to transfer
financial resources to the rest of the public sector. This policy created
a distortion by having the high domestic cost reduce the competitiveness of
Costa Rican goods. The Government will now adopt a pricing policy that
should bring domestic prices of petroleum products down to international



- 13 _
levels while still generating an overall surplus in RECOPE's operations.
Petroleum prices will be adjusted to international levels while RECOPE's
pricing subsidies to the rest of the public sector will be reduced by 0,100
million in 1988, until they are coWpletely eliminated in 1989. To
compensate for this reduction in transfers and to bring domestic prices to
international levels, RECOPE will pay a 12 percent sales tax on all
petroleum products starting in 1988.
53.      As mentioned in para. 14, real public wages decreased moderately
in 1987. Since the historical trend shows that public wages generally lead
to increases in private sector wages, if wage increases in the private
sector were to occur, they could offset the competitiveness gained as a
result of the new management of the exchange rate. The Government is now
conmitted to a wage policy that would complement the management of the
exchange rate--a key component of the trade reform--in increasing the
relative profitability of the tradeable sectors vis-a-vis non-tradeables.
Therefore, for the duration of the adjustment program the authorities will
follow a wage policy whereby public real wages will not be allowed to
increase above average productivity gains in the economy.
External Debt Management
54.      In spite of the past export diversification and growth, Costa
Rica's balance of payments situation remains difficult because of the heavy
burden of its foreign debt. While the debt service ratios will decline
over time, their current size is likely to remain for the next two-year
period. Performance of the adjustment program and Costa Rica's long-term
creditworthiness, therefore, are directly related to finding a viLble way
to manage and distribute over time, the external debt burden of the
economy.
55.      In 1987, management of the external burden took place mainly
through large increases in foreign grants (US$150 million), and increased
accumulation of arrears, mostly to commercial banks (US$154 in interest
payments). Despite their size, these amounts were not sufficient to fully
close the country's financial gap; the difference was made-up through
decreases in the reserve level of about US$70 million. Since October 1987,
to normalize its external financing, Costa Rica has paid about half of the
interest due to commercial banks and has requested a rescheduling of all
debt owed to the banks, including previously refinanced debt. Over the
last year or two the Government has held a series of neetings with its
commercial creditcrs to reach an agreement to eliminate the arrears and
ease the future burden of the external debt on the economy. The Bank has
closely followed these discussions among creditor banks. The banks are
seeking to reach agreement among themselves on a financing package tailored
to Costa Rica's circumstances, and another meeting is scheduled for end-
November.
56.      With regard to bilateral debt, a meeting of the Paris Club has
been scheduled for December 1988, after the November 1988 review of the
Stand-by targets agreed with the IMF, to reschedule about 85 percent of
Costa Rica's interest and principal payments through 1990.



- 14 -
PART III -- THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General
57.      The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Loan would support the
Government's 1988-1990 program of economic adjustment and recovery. The
loan was prepared with the Government during September 1987. Appraisal
took place between September 1987 and February 1968. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. on August 3, 1988. The Costa Rican delegation was
headed by Ks. Sylvia Saborio representing the Kinistry of finance. The
following paragraphs describe the components of the SAL II program
summarized in Annexes III and IV.
B. Export Promotion Policies
58.      Although non-traditional exports have grown at an impressive rate
in the past few years (para. 30), a continuation of this growth and further
encouragement of efficient import substitution is essential, given the very
limited growth prospects for Costa Rica's traditional exports of coffee and
bananas. Towards these ends, the following areas have been targeted for
reform: the import tariff structure, exchange rate policy, the export
incentive reform regime, and agricultural pricing policy.
Tariff Reform
59.      The tariff system in Costa Rica is formulated on the basis of
three distinctions: (i) competing versus non-competing imports; i.e.,
whether a good is produced in the CACM or not, (ii) whether the import
constitutes an input, a capital good or a final good, and (iii) whether the
import is considered an essential or non-essential good. Furthermore, the
total import duty levied is made up of several components: (i) customs
tariffs, largely conforming to the common external tariff of the CACM,
(ii) additional surcharges, unilaterally applied by the Central Bank to
imports from outside the CACM, and (iii) a 1 percent flat rate charged on
all imports. Specific rates had been abolished during the previous tariff
reform in 1985, and quantitative restrictions only remain for a few
agricultural products, amounting to less than 1.5 percent of all imports.
60.      The tariff reform supported by this loan calls for a reduction of
all rates at the top of the current tariff distribution to a maximum
ceiling of 40 percent, while also reducing rates at the bottom of the
scale. As agreed with the authorities, all tariffs will now be adjusted to
a range of 5 percent to 40 percent, with the exception of non-competing
essential goods, which will be levied a tariff of 1 percent, and some non-
competing final goods (primarily luxury goods), which may be subject to
tariffs in excess of 40 percent. Within this framework, the tariffs on raw
materials/intermediates and capital goods will have a ceiling of 20 percent
and a floor of 5 percent.
The Adjustment Calendar
61.      The adjustment to the new tariff rates is to take place according
to the following calendar: On October 1, 1987, all tariffs exceeding 40
percent were reduced by an amount of 10 percent of their current level.
Simultaneously, the surcharge of 2 percent on raw materials and
intermediate goods was removed (so that the remaining total duty on these
goods is 8 percent), and the 12 percent surcharge on capital goods was



- 15 -
reduced to 2 percent (which reduces the combined tariff floor on these
goods to 10 percent).
62.      With regard to tariffs above the eventual 40 percent ceiling, the
remaining adjustments to the new levels are to take place in six equal
semi-annual adjustments which began on June 30, 1988 and with the 'last
adjustment taking place on December 31, 1990. Because of the prevalence of
small producers, an exception is to be made for the shoe, textiles and
clothing industries, where che adjustment will take place in 10 equal semi-
annual adjustmentr over a a five-year period. since only 9 percent of the
manufacturing value-added Is produced by these three sectors, the deviation
should produce minimal distortions to the tariff reform process.
63.      With regard to the tariff floor, the following adjustment calendar
will apply: On December 31, 1988, the remaining 2 percent surcharge on
capital goods will be eliminated, so that the tariff floor becomes 8
percent. On December 31, 1989, the tariff floor will be reduced to 6
percent, and then to 5 percent on December 31, 1990. In these last two
cases, the CACM tariff is not to fall below 5 percent.
64.      In simultaneously lowering the tariff ceiling and the floor, there
is no guarantee that the average level of effective protection will fall.
Another possible danger is that by lowering the tariff floor, the more
highly protected final goods producers may be receiving the wrong signal
regarding the Government's restructuring effor' . Since tariffs at the low
end of the distribution mainly apply to importei inputs, the proposed
tariff ceiling reduction is made palatable to domestic producers by the
promise of cheaper inputs. If the long-term objective, however, is to
eventually unify tariffs, this precedent will make future tariff
adjustments more difficult to negotiate. To partly accommodate this second
objective, the adjustment calendar has been formulated in such a way that
the reductions in the tariff floor are delayed until after some reductions
in the tariff ceiling have already taken place.
65.      Yet, it is important to point out that the reformed tariff
structure will significantly reduce the overall level of nominal protection
(from an economy-wide average of 26.4 percent to 16.4 percent) and also
reduce dispersion (from 21.4 percent to 12.9).



- 16-
Table 5: COSTA RICA -- Agreed New Tariff Regime
Mean                 Standard
Tariff                Deviation
..............................
Raw Materials and Intermediates
Non-competing                                  5.0                       2.7
Competing                                    20.9                        8.3
Capital Goods
Non-Competing                                  5.5                       2.0
Competing                                    24.7                        7.5
Final Goods
Non-Competing
Non-Essentials                             34.0                        9.2
Non-Competing
Essentials                                  5.4                        5.8
Competing                                     32.6                       8.7
Whole System                                    16.4                       12.9
Source: World Bank estimates
66.      To be effective, the 1988-1990 tariff adjustment program will
require legislative approval after which it also needs to be negotiated with
the other country members of CACH. The tariff adjustment program is expected
to be approved by the Legislative Assembly in early 1989. This approval is a
specific condition for loan effectiveness. The authorities have already
started negotiations to persuade other CACM members to adopt the same tariff
scheme.
67.      By its final implementation in December 1990, estimates of effective
protection rates (comparing current rates with the rates that would obtain
after the reform is completed) using a method developed at the CACM
Secretariat (SIECA) with sectors disaggregated at the 4-digit SITC level,
indicate that the proposed tariff reform would reduce the average level of
effective protection from 72.3 percent to 59.6 percent, while the standard
deviation would be reduced from 49.5 percent to 24.7 percent. Only three
sectors, would remain with an effective protection rate above 100 percent
(the highest being 133 percent), while under the old regime 18 sectors
enjoyed an effective rate over 100 percent (with a top rate of 245 percent).
Exchange Rate Policy
68.      In the early 1980s, it was well accepted that Costa Rica's
adjustment required a real devaluation. As a result, Costa Rica abandoned
its fixed exchange rate policy and implemented a series of massive
devaluations, which with the support of fiscal and monetary policy succeeded



- 17 -
in generating a real devaluation and improved competitiveness.1 Since mid-
1985 the real exchange rate has been devalued by 40 percent aud a 6 percent
nominal devaluation was made in January 1988. The Government proposes to
continue its policy of minidevaluations, compensating for inflation
differentials, in order to maintain export competitiveness. It has
formalized this intention in the IMF Stand-by Arrangement, and has advised us
that, following the reduction of import tariffs it would make any necessary
adjustment in the exchange rate if the need arises to do so.
69.      In September 1987, the Central Bank raised (from 10 percent to
50 percent) the prior deposit required when placing a request for foreign
exchange. Although the cost to the importer is minimal (the request is
processed in a two-week period), this policy is inconsistent with the
commitment to implement a more open trade regime.   Recognizing this
inconsistency, the Government has agreed to gradually reduce the prior
deposit requirement in line with the proposed tariff reduction calendar.
Upon effectiveness of the SAL, the prior deposit rate is to be reduced in
equal amounts every three months until a maximum rate of 10 percent is
reached by December 31, 1990. As condition for second and third tranche
releases, at the time of the review the authorities must have fulfilled the
prior deposit rates reductions established in the calendar mentioned in this
paragraph.
Export Incentives
70.      Under the current export incentive regime, exporters of non-
traditional goods to third-country markets receive the following benefits
under the "Contrato de Exportacion:m (i) duty exemption on imported raw
materials and intermediates; (ii) duty exemption on imported machinery and
equipment; (iii) exemption from sales and consumption taxes; (iv) 100 percent
exemption from corporate income tax; (v) a deduction of 50 percent of the
cost of purchases of stock in exporting firms; and (vi) negotiable tax
credits based on the FOB value of exports (CATs). Initially, the benefits of
the CAT were only available after a one-year waiting period. These benefits
are currently granted on an ex ante basis.
71.      The Government will streamline the system, thereby hoping to
increase its effectiveness. To eliminate distortions and to avoid foreign
retaliation through countervailing duties, which has recently become a
serious issue for Costa Rica, CATs are to be eliminated altogether. As long
as the reduction of tariffs in accordance with the agreed schedule is
contingent on negotiations within the CACM, it is very important to keep in
place an export incentives system that reduces the remaining anti-export bias
of the trade regime.   The simplified system of incentives fulfills this
purpose. Although the total amount of incentives granted under the new
system is to be reduced, the number of producers qualifying for benefits is
to increase. In addition to final stage producers, all intermediate goods
producers whose output is destined toward expert production are to be granted
access to the export contract. Furthermore, all final and intermediate stage
1/ There is still a fixed official exchange rate that differs from the
commerciol rate, but this is an irrelevant bookkeeping relic not used
for any transactions except a few outstanding student stipends. There
is also a small parallel exchange market where the rate differential
has remained below 10 percent, appearing not to signal a serious
overvaluation of the currency.



- is -
producers, whose output is only partly destined toward exports, will also be
able to avail themselves of the incentive benefits on an *x post basis by
swans of a 'drawback' system. hile IMplemnting these changes, an effort
would be made to simplify the administrative procedures associated with
obtaining the export incentive benefits; also, access to these benefits by
firms that met the export criterion will be more automatic. As condition
for the second tranche release, implementation of the new incentive system is
required.
C. Pricini of Basic Oraine
72.      The agricultural sector has considerable potential for expanding
exports-and eployment. Since increased agricultural export production and
productivity gains are important el eme nts in the Government's economic
progrm, the adjustment program includes measures which will reduce pricing
and marketing distortions created by CNP's monopoly of basic grains. The
proposed measures wills (i) eliminate CNP's monopoly to import and market
beans and corn; (ii) decrease CNP's subsidies by unifying domestic consumer
and producer prices; and (iii) reduce the divergence between domestic
producer support prices and international prices for basic grains.2
73.      Over the years CNP had followed a policy of support prices geared to
increase domestic production of basic grains. Implementation of this policy
was possible because of CNP's monopoly to import basic grains and its storage
capacity which permitted the Government to corner the market and eliminate
private sector competition. Since 1986, the Government has moved to reduce
CNP's role in marketing basic grains.  Marketing of rice has been entrusted
to an association of private producers and distributors (ONA) and
representatives from the Ministries of Economy and Agriculture which is now
free to import rice in accordance with the need to satisfy domestic demand.
Beginning in 1988, the Government will eliminate CNP's monopoly on imports of
corn and beans, while gradually allowing use of CNP's storage units to
private firms within an agreed program that would reduce by 1990 CNP's role
only to purchase corn and beans from small farmers.
74.      The Government is now committed to end CNP's monopoly power to
import basic grains. However, because the adjustment to international prices
needs to be made in a gradual manner, to reduce its impasse over small
producers, the Government decided to maintain quantitative restrictions on
imports of rice, beans and corn until 1990. Although private traders will
now be allowed to import basic grains, the maintenance of quantitative
restrictions in this phase of the adjustment program will continue to provide
wrong incentives for the use of land in crops where Costa Rica lacks
comparative advantage and will generate higher consumer prices.
75.      To reduce the distortions of this policy, it was agreed that the
divergence between domestic support prices and the five-year average of the
international price of these crops will be reduced by 1990 to a maximum
spread of 40 percent.  To this end, in 1988 the Government froze the price of
corn at its 1987 nominal level, and adjusted the minimum guaranteed prices
for beans and rice t.o a ratio of 1.5 and 1.4 times respectively, of their
five-year international price average. During 1989, prices will be adjusted
to reduce the ratio between domestic prices and the five-year average of
international prices to 1.5 times for corn, 1.45 times for beans, and 1.4
2/ International prices were defined ast US Gulf f.o.b. price for beans;
US No. 3 Gulf f.o.b. for corn; and US No. 3 Gulf f.o.b. for rice.



- 19 -
times for rice. Since price stabilization will be ensured through an import
quota system, the rent will be captured by a tax imposed in granting the
licenses to private traders in an amount equivalent to the difference between
domestic and international export prices.
D. Public Financec
76.      Major objectives of the medium term public finances adjustment
program are limitations on the growth of current ezpenditures, care in
defining and implementing an efficient public investment program and
strengthening of the cost effectiveness of public enterprises. As an
indication of its comituent to implement them, the goverm nt hae agreed to
a set of annual public savings targets ror the 1988-1990 period of
5.7 percent of GDP in 1988, 6.2 percent in 1989 and 6.5 percent in 1990. The
increases in the overall public sector savings would leave the private sector
higher access to national savings to fund the expected increases on its
investment. It was agreed that disbursement of the loan's second and third
tranches would depend on the public sector savings reaching no less than 5.7
percent of GDP in 1988, and an unweighted average for 1988 and 1989 of at
least 6 percent of GDP.
77.      The budget projections demonstrated the feasibility of the
structural program's monetary and fiscal assumptions to generate the required
public sector savings to finance the adjustment effozt. However, they also
show the stress caused by the public sector's need to service the external
debt if full service (as we projected) is to be made. Because key elements
of the projections were the price of coffee and international interest rates,
it was agreed that new projections and associated contingency plans examining
substantial changes on the assumed values would be discussed and agreed on
before disbursement of the loan's second tranche.
Table 6: COSTA RICA -- Finances of the Non-Financial
Public Sector 1986-1990
(Z of GDP)
Estimated            Projected
1986     1987          1988    1989        1990
Current Revenues             25.5     25.6           26.3    27.5        27.5
Current Expenditures         21.0     20.9           20.5    21.2        21.0
o/w external interest
paid               (0.6)    (0.6)           (1.6)   (1.9)       (2.0)
Public Sector Savings         4.5      4.7            5.8      6.3        6.5
Capital Revenues              0.1      0.1            0.1      0.0        0.0
Capital Expenditures          6.3      5.0            6.5      5.7        6.5
Overall Balance              -1.8     -0.2            0.6      0.6        0.0
Source: Ministry of Finance
78.      A projected 1988-90 investment program was also discussed.  The
program continues the shift started in the 1984-86 investment program toward
strengthening non-traditional exports while maintaining existing



- 20 -
infrastructure. Taking into account the magnitude of projected public
savings and capital inflows, the sustainable size of the investment program
was estimated to be about 6.5 percent of GDP annually.
79.      This level of investment was adopted by the authorities after
agreeing to scale down the public investment program by 0 5 billion (about
1.6 percent of GDP). New railway (INCOFER) investments were reduced to basic
minimum maintenance of the network. A hydro-project (irris), planned to be
undertaken by Junta de Administracion Servicios Electricos de Cartago, was
deleted from the progrm given its apparent lack of justification on economic
grounds. Finally, RECOPE's planned modernization of its refinery, and a coa7.
exploration project, were deferred since both were marginally economic at
best. Satisfactory execution of the investment program attached in Annex 5,
will be criteria for the loan's second and third tranche disbursements.
Table 7: COSTA RICA - Sectoral Allocation of Public Investment
for 1988-90
(Z of Total Public Investment)
1988                1989                1990
Ongoing    Neu      Ongoing    New      Ongoing    New
Agriculture           10.7      17.2        3.7     13.4        2.7     13.5
Energy                43.8      15.1      59.4      17.5       63.7     21.2
Communications         2.6      22.4       3.0      22.4        4.4     17.0
Health                15.0      19.0       3.0      22.4        4.4     17.0
Housing               11.1       3.3       3.8       3.1        1.5      4.0
Others                16.8      23.0      27.1      21.2       23.3     27.3
100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
Source: MIDEPLAN
80.     Ah  extensive system of earmarking and compulsory spending reduces
the Government's capacity to make the best use of spending resources and
seriously undermines its ability to adjust for short-term financial shocks.
One-third of income tax is earmarked for higher education; a large part o'
the land tax goes to municipalities; 6 percent of the Central Government
current revenues are earmarked for the Judiciary branch and 3 percent of
budgeted expenditures are ellocated to the Government's housing program.
Excluding the social security contributions and compulsory spending, one-
fourth of Central Government revenues are earmarked.



- 21 -
Table 8: COSTA RICA -- Share of Earmarked Revenues in Total
Projected Central Government Revenues, 1988
(Billions of Colones)
Total
Ordinary       Supplemental    Budgeted
Budget          Budlet         Revenues
I  Tax Revenues               38.8              5.0           43.8
II  Earmarked Tax Revenues    6.3                5.0           11.3
Ratio of lI/I                  16.2            100.0           25.8
Source: Ministry of Finance.
81.      As earmarking is entrenched in Costa Rica, dealing with this
problem directly is highly cop.?licated. Eliminating earmarking and
compulsory spending would require a constitutional amendment as well as a
modification in more than 100 laws. However, the Authorities are aware of
the need to reduce the share of earmarked revenues in the total budget for
this purpose.
82.      She authorities have begun to reduce allocations of earmarked
revenues to low priority programs, while increasing transfers to those
programs deemed essential (i.e., education) over the amounts indicated by
law. The Government will not propose new legislation establishing
earmarked tax revenues. Compliar.ce with this conunitment will be criteria
for the disbursement of the loan's second and third tranches.
83.      The Government has undertaken a divestiture program of non-
essential enterprises. Since the introduction in 1984 of the law to divest
the Government's holding company (CODESA) of most of its holdings,
substantial progress has been achieved. Of the 41 original companies, by
January 1988, only five remained in CODESA's hands. CODESA intends to sell
40 percent of CATSA's shares, a sugar-mill company and CEMPASA, a cement
company. As part of the structural adjustment program, progress on the
divestiture program will be assessed during the second tranche review.
E. Financial Intermediation Policies
84.      The efficient mobilization of financial resources is hampered by
the large public banks' non-performing portfolios, the lack of competition
in the banking sector, and the weak supervision and control of financial
intermediaries. To help solve these problems, the Government has agreed on
a program to gradually reduce public banks' arrears, to increase
competition, and to strengthen supervisions and control.
85.      As an initial step, the Government has indicated its commitment to
avoid further generalized debt rescheduling programs like the one imposed
on May 1, 1987, by the FODEA Law. (This Law forced the rescheduling of all
agricultural loans overdue more than 180 days at negative real interest
rates and maturities of up to 16 years.) The Government also intends to
gradually reduce--through better collection efforts and write-offs against
provisions, legal reserves, or equity capital when necessary--public banks'
arrears for more than 180 days to 5 percent of total loans by the end of
1988, and to 3 percent by the end of 1989.  In addition, the Government has



- 22 -
recently submitted legislation to the National Assembly that would allow
it (i) to prohibit banks to register as income interest accrued on loans
that have been in arrears for more than 180 daysl and (ii) to authorize
banks to charge penalty interest rates when loans are not paid at their
maturities. The Government is also committed to keeping the stock of
subsidized credit frozen &t the nominal level of December 31, 1986, vwih a
seasonal fluctuation that will not exceed in real terms 5 percentage
points. Credits financed with external grant lines would be excluded from
this limit. In the agricultural sector, subsidized credit will be
restricted to small-size farmers and cattle growers and the subsidy will be
financed directly from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget.
86.      With the purpose of increasing competition in the banking sector
and in line with Bank's recomendations, the Government has recently
designed a program allowing private banks to gradually accept deposits
between 90-180 days.   Legislation recently approved by Costa Rica's
National Assembly was designed to provide the Auditoria with stronger
supervisory and monitoring powers and to regulate the functions of private
financial institutions which operated without Central Bank authorization
and supervision.   It also provides the Auditoria with instrumentg to deal
more effectively with troubled financial institutions. In addition, the
Government intends to increase the public disclosure of the banking
institutions' financial statements as well as require them to have their
annual balance sheets and income statements audited by external auditors.
87.      The Government and the Bank have agreed on the following criteria
for the loan's second and third tranches disbursements: (i) portfolio
overdue over 180 days in public commercial banks should have been reduced
to 5 percent of total publIc banks' loans by December 31, 1988, and to 3
percent by December 31, 1989; (ii) the Government should not have granted
or approved any generalized debt rescheduling program; (iii) the subsid'&zed
credit granted by public commercial banks--defined as the credit granted at
a rate lower than the six-month average deposit rate--should have been kept
at the December 31, 1986 level--0 5.3 billion--or should have increasej in
real terms by no more than 5 percentage points on a temporary basis
(subsidized credit financed with external lines of credit will be exempted
from this calculation); and (iv) regulations must be in place allowing
banks to charge penalty interest rates for debts not paid at their
maturities, prohibiting banks to register as income interest accrued on
loans that have been past due for more thar 180 days, instructing banks to
publish their annual balance sheets and income statements in newspapers
with nation-wide circulation, and requiring banks to have these financial
statements audited by external auditors.
F. Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program and Creditworthiness
Prospects
88.      As was the case with SAL I, the proposed SAL II would be part of a
larger program of external support for Costa Rica's adjustment efforts,
including the IMF Stand-by Arrangement, continued USAID financing, further
debt support from the commercial banks and Paris Club, and cofinancing from
bilateral sources. The adjustment program agreed upon with the Bank should
clearly facilitate Costa kica's ongoing negotiations with the commercial
banks.
89.      The Bank projections (Annex 1) illustrate the problem.  They
assume that Costa Rica will reach agreements this year with the Paris Club



- 23 -
and coinercial banks to refinance about US$850 million of accumulated
*rrears and current maturities. Moreover, it is assumed that Costa Rica
will also refinance 100 percent of the current maturities to financial
institutions in 1989-92. At the same time, in order to get a complete
picture of the financing gap, the projections include full payment of
scheduled interest throughout the period.
90.      With regards to domestic policies, we assume full implementation
of the adjustment program supported by SAL II. In particular, public
sector savings increase to 6.5 percent of GDP by 1990. Progress in trade
liberalization, the new export incentives scheme and the new law for the
promotion of investment will stLiulate private savings and investment
throughout the period. Non-traditional exports will maintain their growth
momentum in the next five years, but their rate of growth may decline
thereafter as their overall volume increases.
91.      The base case presumes a macroeconomic policy mix supporting a
real devaluation resulting in a 10 percent yearly volume growth of non-
traditional exports, continued low (albeit improving) real coffee prices,
and an increase in the volume of Costa Rica's coffee exports of 6 percent
by 1992.  The scenario assumes a supporting international economy and no
further increase in protectionism in the OECD countriec.
92.      Because of Costa Rica's high external debt, a significant resource
surplus is required to reduce the interest payment/export ratio from
17.7 percent in 1987 to 14.2 percent in 1992. To generate this surplus,
consumnption growth would have to be restricted during 1988-1992; real GDP
growth would average a moderate 3.7 percent.
Table 9:  COSTA RICA - Selected Economic Projections
Growth Rates                 1986     1987   1988    1989    1990       1992
GDP                           5.4     3.9      2.5     3.5      4.0      4.5
Consumption                   5.2     3.1    -0.4      2.7      2.9      3.6
Exports GNFS                -5.2    19.2    -0.3       5.6      6.7      7.6
o/w Non-traditional       15.4    36.3      9.0      9.0    10.0      12.0
Imports GNFS                  7.6     9.1    -9.1      6.0      6.4      6.3
Percent of GDP
Total Investment            23.7    21.1    20.5    21.0    21.5        22.0
National Savings            19.4    13.0    15.4    16.1    17.0        18.7
Public                     5.5      5.1     5.7      6.2     6.5       7.0
Private                   13.9      7.9     9.7      9.9    10.5      11.7
Current Account BOP          -4.3    -8.9    -6.2    -6.2    -5.8       -4.3
DOD                         96.6    93.5    99.2    96.0    96.2        89.3
HLT Interest                  6.6     5.7      6.0     6.0      6.4      5.8
Percent of Exports GNFS
MLT Debt Service             42.9    54.2    44.6    42.3    40.5       27.5
MLT Interest                20.4    17.7    17.5    16.6    16.7        14.2
93.      The Government's stabilization program implies drastic
contractionary measures this year, particularly in terms of monetary



- 24 _
policy. As a result of these measures, CDP is projected to grow by only
2.5 percent in 1966, and total consumption to decrease by 0.5 percent.
However, in 1989, GDP would grow by 3.5 percent and consumption by 2.7
percent - approximately equal to the rate of population growth. In
1990-92, the rate of growth of CDP in projected at nearly 4.5 percent, with
consumption per capita gradually increasing. This growth would require a
substantial increase In Imports, while total exports are projected to
growth at a somewhat higher rate in real terms. At the same time, the
terms of trade are expected to Improve only slightly throughout the period.3
Consequently, the current account deficit of the balance of payments would
gradually decline to 4 percent of GDP by 1992. Total debt as a fraction of
GDP would generally decline after 1968, while contractual interest payments
increase to 6.4 percent of GDP by 1990 and decrease thereafter.
94.      The projected GDP growth is based on the assumption of a moderate
Improvement in Costa Rica's terms of trade and a strong savings effort --
about 30 percent of the additional income goes into savings. In per capita
terms, 1990 consumption level, albeit above the 1987 level, would still be
below its historical high. A slower GDP rate of growth or a lower level of
foreign exchange earnings for more than temporary periods would probably
result in an unfeasible scenario. Higher growth if it would require higher
borrowing levels, would be neither feasible nor desirable, because of the
country's already excessively high debt burden.
95.      The projections underscore the need to increase exports and
savings to accelerate growth and maintain a viable balance of payments
position. Without a major effort to change incentives in favor of exports
to markets outside the CACM, the situation would become unmanageable, even
with further debt reAchPdulingc While the recommended policies are not
without risk, the historicai experience of the Costa Rican private sector
indicates that it does respond well to market signals.
96.      Starting in 1988, the proposed fiscal and financial sector
policies--especially actions to reduce the growth in public expenditures
and restructure the banking system--should help bring about a sustained
increase in domestic savings to substitute for foreign savings to finance
investments and also to cover external debt service obligations.
97.      The recovery program would have to be financed primarily through a
substantial increase in Costa Rica's savings. National savings would need
to increase from 13.0 percent of GDP in 1987 to about 18.7 percent in 1992.
The corresponding increase in domestic savings would, however, be eased by
the decreasing ratio of interest payments to GDP by 1992. As noted, public
sector savings--after interest payments--would need to increase from 5
percent of GDP in 1987 to 6.5 percent by 1990. Private sector savings
would need to increase from 8.0 percent of GDP in 1987 to about
11.7 percent by 1992. Such an increase will materialize only if firms
increase production and reinvest their profits in the highly profitable
export-oriented sector and the banking reforms translate into incentives to
increase household savings. In the meantime-during 1988 and 1989--a
significant inflow of foreign savings will be required.
3/ The balance of trade is very sensitive to changes in the terms of
trade. In particular, fluctuations in the price of coffee, which is
about one third of total exports, could have a drastic impact on the
trade and current accounts.



- 25 -
98.      The program's successful implementation would require relatively
high inflows of foreign capital in the short run, declining thercafter, and
complete rescheduling of the commercial banks amortization payments due in
1988-1992, and of its total accutmulated arrears on principal as of 1987.
lt was estimated that Costa Rica my obtain from official sources (IBRD
included) and suppliers between US$170 to US$240 million per year in gross
disbursements and that foreign direct investment could provide a net
average inflow of about US$75 million per year. Thus, our prejections
assume that commercial banks will support the program by providing the
required extra resources either with new money or through special financial
arrangements to reduce Costa Rica's debt burden.
Table 10: COSTA RICA -- Projected Capital Flows, 1988-92
(US$ million)
1988      1989       1990   1991       1992
Gross Financing Requirements a/ 1,578.1        818.0    718.3   664.3    553.4
Total Financing                   1,578.1      818.0    718.3   664.3    553.4
Official Grants                     160.0      140.0    120.'   100.0    100.0
Net Direct Investment                68.0       72.6     72.4    74.8       77.3
Public MLT Disbursements            202.0      195.2    190.6   230.8    219.2
Capital NEI                          87.6       27.1    -12.9   -12.3    -11.8
Refinancing                         846.2      269.2    255.5   182.0       44.8
Current Obligations              326.0     269.2    255.5   182.0       44.8
Arrears b/                       520.2        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Unidentified                        214.4      124.9    105.8   102.7    139.0
a/   For 1988 includes clearing of all arrears:  US$542 million of principal
and US$233 million of interest.
b/   For 1988 assumes that US$482 million of principal and US$39 million of
interest is refinanced and the remainder is repaid.
99.      Under this financing program, Costa Rica's medium- and long-term
debt would remain roughly constant (about 4.7 billion) from 1988 to 1992.
The increase in net exposure of the Bank would be 22 percent and of 10
percent for other official creditors for the 1987-90 period. Commercial
sources would have to complement this effort by providing an average of
about US$130 million per year in the same period.
Social Impact
100.     Costa Rica has reached a very advanced stage of social development
both in absolute terms and in relation to its level of per capita income.
The level of indicators of satisfaction of basic needs and of access to
social services is high: it compares favorably with that developed
countries, and exceeds that of Central America and medium income countries.
The present status of social development reflects a national commitment to
make available educational opportunities, health care, housing and other
basic social services to all members of the society. The allocation of
over 40 percent of public sector expenditurea to social investment and
services has resulted in a rapid expansion of coverage over the last three
decades.



- 26 -
101.     Until recently, the public sector had followed a policy of making
available the same package of basic social benefits to everybody. But the
high costs of this approach vis-a-vis tight fiscal constraints have
prompted the consideration of targeting public sector resources towards
improving the status of those relatively worse off, while beneficiaries of
social services with an ability to do so contribute a greater share to the
financing of these services. Also, greater attention is being given to
improving efficiency in the production and delivery of social services,
including in some instances the utilization of private providers in a
framework defined by public policy.
102.     As a result of an early Government commitment to basic education,
Costa Rica had reached by 1960 virtually complete coverage of primary
education. At present enrollment in primary (100 percent) and secondary
(40 percent) education ib similar to the average of middle-income
economies, while in higher education, enrollment at 22 percent is almost
double that of middle-income economies. The Costa Rican educational sector
faces two main issues: (i) how to ensure access to good quality basic
education to those still underserved (mainly inhabitants of isolated or
recently colonized areas); and (ii) how to provide the population with the
high quality/relevant education required by a modernizing economy. These
two issues would have to be addressed under the expected tight fiscal
constraint. A critical decision on the allocation of resources among the
different educational levels is required, particularly on the share of
ligher education, which has been growing at the expense of the primary and
secondary levels.
103.     Expenditure on health came down from 25 percent of total public
expenditure in the late 1970s to about 17 percent in the mid-1980s. A
strong effort was made not to lower the provision of services, but given
the expected tightness of public resources, the health sector requires an
institutiona' restructuring that will streamline and integrate functionally
the operations of the different entities in the sector. The huge
improvement in health indicators in the last 20-30 years did not reach all
the regions of the country or all the segments of the population.
Therefore, the focus now should be on targeting expenditure to specific
parts of the population, where additional resources would have the largest
social benefit. Services should be also adjusted to the changing
epidemiological characteristics of the population which call for a health
education and information effort aiming at a shift of the behavior and
habits of the population towards healthier patterns to prevent
cardiovascular and degenerative diseases.
104.     In the long-term, the adjustment program will have a significant
impact on increasing employment and income of the poorest segments of the
population. At the same time, employment and income of some middle income
groups will be adversely affected during at least the initial two years of
the structural adjustment program as some highly protected import competing
industries are restructured, the size of the public sector is reduced, and
Government expenditures fall in real terms.  In addition, following the
adjustments on public sector expenditures, urban employment opportunities
in the public service will decline.
105.     The Government will pace the transitional social impact of the
adjustment process through a two-fold approach. First, in agreement with
our objective to support investments in the reorganization of productive
activities, soft credit to small farmers will be made available to



- 27 -
facilitate the shift of agricultural production from basic grains to higher
value crops. Second, in order to protect vulnerable groups, the Government
would keep its provision of social programs making adjustments to reduce
the costs of these programs by focusing on better targeting of their
benefits to the lower income segments of the population.
Creditworthiness
106.     Costa Rica' creditworthiness rests ultimately on the economy's
capacity to grow while managing its large external debt in a satisfactory
manner.  The structural adjustment program with its emphasis on
strengthening the country's export capacity, and the ability of the
financial system to mobilize savings efficiently as well as on increasing
domestic savings would create the conditions to allow Costa Rica to slowly
rely less on foreign assistance and tu service its external debt while
recovering economic growth. If successfully implemented, the adjustment
program would permit Costa Rica to reduce its interest payments on the
external debt from 18 percent of exports in 1987 to about 14 percent by
1992. Its use of foreign savings would only be 3.3 percent of GDP by that
year, and the average GDP growth rate for the five-year period could be
about 3.7 percent. Since the program weuld encourage growth based on
exports, it will permit the generation of long-term sustainable employment.
The adjustment program supported by the proposed loan would therefore have
improved Costa Rica's creditworthiness.
Benefits and Risks
107.     The main benefits of the SAL program in Costa Rica derive from the
support it will provide to the country's adjustment program of export-
oriented policies, enhanced savings efforts and rehabilitation of the
banking system. This will, in turn, improve the private investment
climate, encouraging the development of those productive sectors where
Costa Rica has an international comparative advantage, helping in obtaining
sustainable economic growth and reinforcing the recognition within
Costa Rica that this economic strategy represents the best alternative to
continued stagnation and increasing unemployment.
108.     The success of the economic policies that the proposed SAL would
support would be subject to significant risks. First, while the adjustment
program has the full backing of the economic team and the President,
Costa Rica's democratic framework and the dispersed nature of national
political power, as well as the strong propensity of the system to seek
consensus and avoid conflict, could slow down the pace of reform. Clearly.
too slow a pace would be counterproductive. But a reasonably gradual
approach on some reforms is essential, especially since it will take time
to wean Costa Ricans awav from their heavy dependence on Govarnment
subsidies and other forms of Government intervention in the market place.
A second risk relates to the need for legislative approval of a series of
reforms. While we are hopeful that the opposition party will in fact
support a strong package, there is still room for considerable delay.
Moreover, since many of the proposed reforms touch on matters which run
counter to the traditional orientation of the ruling party, the Government
may also find it difficult to get its own party members on board. While
there is a serious risk of delay, we believe that a Government campaign to
explain the program's objectives would minimize some of the problems.



- 28 -
109.     There are also some external risks.  First, the ultimate success
of the program depends heavily on Costs Rice's ability to expand non-
traditional exports. Although good progress has been made in recent years,
there remains the risk that an increase in protectionism in industrial
countries could undermine the export growth effort. Second, given the
country's continued dependence on traditional exports, its overall balance
of payments will continue to be affected by price and market prospects foc
its main exports, especially coffee and bananas. Sharp falls in income
from these sources would, of course, also hamper the recovery effort.
Third, to the extent that Costa Rica's tariff reform depends on agreement
with its Common Market partners, difficulties in reaching agreement could
slow the speed of tariff reform and affect the timing of the proposed SAL.
Fourth, given the country's external debt burden, the domestic savings
effort required by the program imposes severe limitations in the growth of
per capita consumption. If the savings targets do not materialize, then
the country will lack the resources required for tIe investment envisaged
in the program. If this were to happen, growth would be lower and external
debt indicators would deteriorate.
Loan Amount and Tranching
110.     The proposed loan of US$100.0 million would meet about 3 percert
percent of Costa Rica's gross external capital requirements for 1988-90.
It is equivalent to about 3 percent of merchandise imports in the period.
The loan would be disbursed in three tranches of US$40 million,
US$35 million and US$25 million. The first would be eligible for
disbursement upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement after approval by
Costa Rica's National Assembly of the tariff law (para. 66). The second
would be made available in July 1989 after a review of the second tranche
conditions. The last one would be made available in January 1990 after a
review of the third tranche conditions. The proposed tranching would allow
the following: First, it would enable the Bank to review the progress of
the adjustment program. Second, the Bank could review the public sector
investment carefully as a complement to the IMF fiscal review. Third, it
would allow the completion of several studies supported through the
existing Bank's Technical Assistance Loan, providing a useful vehicle for
strengthening our overall dialogue at a time when our program for 1989-1990
is to be determined.
111.     The specific conditions for release of the second and third
tranches are as follows:
A.   Second Tranche
(a)  three equal semi-annual tariff reductions should have
been implemented between June 30, 1988 and June 30,
1989; in accordance to the calendar indicated in paras.
61-63;
(b)  the amount of prior deposit in Colones required from
importers purchasing foreign exchange should have been
reduced from 50 percent to 30 percent by June 30, 1989;
(c)  the new export incentive system should be satisfactorily
operating by June 1989;



- 29 -
(d) producer and consumer prices for beans, corn, and rice
should be equalized during 1988; producer support prAces
in nominal terms should not exceed 1.5 times the
international five-year average in 1989 for yellow corn,
1.45 times for beans, and 1.4 times for rice;
(e) CNP's monopoly on imports shall be ceased and licenses
to permit traders to import basic grains be granted
starting in 1988;
(f)  the public commercial banks over 180 day overdue
portfolio shall have been reduced to 5 percent of total
outstanding loans made by such banks as of December 31,
1988, and to 4 percent as of June 30, 1989;
(g) subsidized credit granted by public commercial banks
shall have been kept at the December 31, 1986 level of
0 5.3 billion in nominal terms and seasonal variation
shall not have exceeded an average of 5 percent in real
terms;
(h) The Superintendency of Banks shall have implemented
regulations aimed at:
(i)    allowing banks to charge penalty interest rates
for debts not naid at their maturities:
(ii)   prohibiting banks to register as income interest
accrued on loans that have been past due for more
than 180 days;
(iii)  instructing banks to publish annual financial
statements in newspapers with nation-wide
circulation; and
(iv)   requiring banks to have their financial
statements audited by external auditors;
(i)  public sector savings shall have reached 5.7 percent o
GDP in 1988, and provision should have been made in the
1989 budget to increase public savings to an unweighted
1988-89 average of at least 6 percent of GDP;
(j) the projected three-year public investment program
furnished to the Bank in March 1988 shall have been
implemented on its 1988 budget; and
(k)  the Government shall not have proposed new legislation
establishing earmarked revenues during 1988 and 1989.
B.  Third Tranche
112.     In addition to maintaining the policy actions mentioned in
para. 111 (c), (d), (e), (g), (h) and (j), the following specific
conditions will apply:



- 30 -
(a) a fourth equal semi-annual tariff reduction should have
been implemented in accordance with the calendar
indicated in paras. 61-63, on December 31, 1989.
(b) the amount of prior deposit in Colones required from
importers purchasing foreign exchange shall have been
reduced to 10 percent by December 31, 1989;
(c) producer support prices for corn, beans and rice should
have been set not to exceed 1.4 times their
international five-year price average during 1990;
(d)  the public comnercial banks over 180-day overdue
portfolio shall have been reduced to 3 percent of total
outstanding loans madle by such banks as of December 31,
1989;
(e) public sector savings shall have reached at least an
unweighted average of 6 percent of GDP during 1988-89,
and the 1990 budget should have made provision to
increase public savings to an envisaged average for the
1988-90 period of at least 6 percent of GDP; and
(f) the projected three-year public investment program
furnished to the Bank in March 1988 shall have been
implemented on its 1988-89 component.
Procurement, Disbursement, Administration and Auditing
113.     Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Private firms would follow normal commercial practice. Public
sector imports would be in accordance with standard government practices,
which ensure reasonable prices. Unless otherwise specified by the Bank,
all purchases exceeding US$5.0 million, except petroleum imports, would be
through international competitive bidding. Purchases not exceeding US$5.0
million would be through the normal procedures of the borrower.
114.     The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject
to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan
signing. However, retroactive financing will be permitted for those
eligible imports made before the date of agreement but not before May 1988,
up to an amount equal to US$20 million. Public and private sector imports
would be eligible, except for military equipment and luxury consumer goods.
The Central Bank would be responsible for the coordination and collection
of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal applications under the
loan. The application would be submitted to the Bank using statements of
expenditure, with the detailed documentation retained by the Government for
review by the Bank as required.
IBRD/IMF Collaboration
115.     IBRD/IMF collaboration on Costa Rica has been quite close for
several years. A 17-month Stand-by, which was approved by the IMF Board in
October 1987, is closely linked with many of the SAL objectives,
particularly with regard to public sector issues, such as reducing Central



- 31 -
Bank losses and the need for trade and macroeconomic policies designed to
improve competitiveness and spur export growth. We will continue to work
closely with Fund staff on key issues as we move forward.
Participation by World Bank and Other Creditors
116.     During 1988-90, Costa Rica would require large external capital
inflows and further debt reschedulings to maintain a viable balance of
payments position compatible with the recovery of growth. On July 1988,
the first mee'ing of a Consultative Group for Costa Rica was held in Paris,
hosted by the Bank. Strong support for the Government's adjustment program
was expressed by bilateral agencies. The Bank, therefore, is confident
that new commitments from official sources (including possible cofinancing
of the SAL) could average US$371 million a year, in addition to grants-
-mostly from the U.S. --of about US$118 million, compared to US$230 million
in commitments and US$126 million in grants per year during 1984-86. Over
one-third of new commitments would need to be provided by multilateral
lenders, with the balance from bilateral donors. The IBRD share in total
Costa Rica's long-term DOD would increase from 7.7 percent in 1987 to 9.6
percent by 1990. IBRD's share of total long-term debt service could also
increase from 11.3 percent in 1987 to 13.7 percent in 1990.
PART IV -- BANK GROUP STRATEGY
117.     Bank lending to Costa Rica initially concentrated on developing
basic infrastructure, mainly power, telecommunications and highways, with
more limited assistance being mad!e available to support development of
agriculture and industry. In response to the growing economic crisis in
the early 1980s, the Bank'q lending program was redesigned, with priority
given to the support of policy reforms aimed at the relief of the country's
pressing balance of payments problems, improve its export performance, and
strengthen creditworthiness. The Export Development Loan (US$25.2
million), approved in FY83, constituted a first step in Bank support of
Government economic recovery efforts. It established a revolving export
financing fund to help finance the import requirements of export
industries. The Structural Adjustment Loan of US$80 million, and
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan of US$3.5 million approved in FY85,
continued support of the country's economic recovery and adjustment effort.
The US$26.0 loan for the Atlantico Agriculture Development Project,
approved by the Executive Directors in October 1986, is intended to
directly support Government efforts to expand agricultural exports, which
is one of the principal objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program.
118.     Future Bank lending is expected to be directed at: (i) continuing
support for the Government's economic recovery and adjustment efforts;
(ii) further promoting private sector efforts to develop industrial and
agricultural exports; and (iii) ensuring adequate maintenance of existing
basic infrastructure and improvements in the infrastructure required to
support the export effort. The objective is to support the Government's
ec'inomic recovery effort through a blend of project and policy-based
lending. In additio-n to continuing support for trade policy reform and
improved management of the public sector, the program is also aimed at
strengthening the policy framework in the agricultural and financial
sectors. To further support the Government's adjustment program, a
transport sector investment project is now under preparation. The
transport sector operation would finance urgently needed road
rehabilitation and maintenance, while supporting efforts to improve port



- 32 -
efficiency and phasing out uneconomic railway operations. Further support
of agriculture development is also planned, with particular emphasis on
expanding non-traditional agricultural exports.
119.     In addition, the Bank has agreed with the  Government to prepare a
comprehensive medium-term financial strategy to help it in mobilizing
substantial resources in the short-term in accordance with the needs
projected to attain a sustainable growth path for the adjustment program.
the key elements of the financial strategy ares (i) direct the flow of
concessional assistance that Costa Rica already receives towards support of
the major investments required in the adjustment program; (ii) mobilize
additional non-project capital inflows to finance the short-term cost of
structural adjustment; and (iii) chair a consultative group to mobilize and
coordinate additional long-term financing required for the long-term
investment to sustain growth.
120.     IFC has been involved in four projects in Costa Rica.  Equity and
loan investment in Productos de Concreto have been sold and fully repaid.
In 1978, the Corporation approved a loan for an expansion project of Scott
P3per Company of Costa Rica (SCR). The project was completed on schedule
and within budget. In October 1986, IFC approved an additional investment
for a second expansion program. Loan and equity investments financed the
integration and expansion of Maricultura, S.A. a shrimp farm on the Pacific
coast. The project's financial and management difficulties have since
forced the shrimp farm to cease operations. In August 1982, a loan of
US$1.3 million equivalent, to Matas de Costa Rica, S.A., was approved by
the Board of Directors to help finance the development of a new plantation
for indoor ornamental plants. The project's sponsor has been facing
financial difficulties which have affected adversely the company's
performance. IFC continues to explore other financing possibilities in the
country.
PART V -- RECOMMENDATION
121.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 9, 1988



- 33 -
OOOM  UICA - UATCIL  coo  rn                                Annex I
19i    er Capita oL r LG n USt   $1.S0                     ------------------------                                    Page  1 of  7
M.4-190 populatiem  (tLamu.)       2.641
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
A. fttLema  Aaeomts aadatetwe &s Shares of 0011601 (M)I
------~------------~-------------------------------------                                                        Projected (shares of ODP
Uist.rial  (sbaes of 6W  Ln eurreat priGes)                       Not.  o eonstant 19S0 prices)
1963    1973    190      1961    1io2       163    1964    1965    1906    1907    1990    1995
Cris Domestic Prodtut n.p.         100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Net Indirect Taxe                 10.0     9.6    11.?       11.9      11.6    14.4    15.1        ..       ..
Agriculture                       25.5    19.3    17.0       23.0      24.S    22.0    26.S    20.0    1S.7    17.5    16.8    16.0
ndsustr7                         23.0    25.3    27.0        2S.6     23.?    20.0    30.2    29.1    26.4    26.7    27.5    27.5
(of which m nuf  turias)*-                   *       *-        *         *-       -       *-        -       *-        -       *-       -
Services                         53.4    33.4    3.2         30.4         S 49.0    49.4    49.0    S1.0    35.0    33.S    55.7    55.7
beAux.. 5l.a1                      -10.0    -6.1   -10.3       -4.9       2.9    -0.7    -0.$    -1.3    -3.3    -0.9          3.5     5.4
Zprts of 031S                     23.5    31.1    26.5       43.3      43.1    36.0    34.1    31.5    27.1    31.0    34.8    38.6
Imports of Ga1s                  33.5    37.2    36.S    4*.2          42.2    36.S    33.0    33.0    30.4    31.8    31.2    33.3
Total Expenditures                 110.0   106.1   110.3    104.9        97.1   100.7   100.0   101.5   103.3    99.8    95.0    92.7
Total Consuption                  90.5    02.1    03.0       75.9      72.4    76.6    76.1    78.2    80.8    79.8    76.4    73.7
Private Consuntlon             77.9    60.2    65.5        60.1      57.S    61.5    60.6    62.0    64.5    63.3    59.7    57.0
General Government             12.6    13.9    10.2        15.7      14.6    15.1    15.5    16.2    16.4    16.5    16.7    16.7
Gross Danstic Investment          19.5    24.0    26.6       29.0      24.7    24.2    24.8    23.3    22.5    20.0    18.6    19.0
Fixed Invostment               18.6    22.2    23.9        24.1      20.3    18.0    21.2    19.4    20.0    22.2    24.7    25.3
Changes in Stocks               0.9      1.0      2.7       5.0       4.4     6.2      3.6      3.9      2.5    -2.2    -3.5    -4.S
Capacity to Isport                   ---      ---     ---       ---       ---      ---     ---      ---    31.3    28.4    27.1    30.4
Terms of Trade Adjustaent            ---      ---     ---       *--       ---      ---     ---      ---      4.3    -3.9    -9.4    -9.8
Gross Domestic Incom                 ---      ---     ---       ---       ---      ---      ---     ---   104.3    96.1    90.6    90.2
Gross National Income                ---      ---      ---      ---       ---      ---      ---     ---    97.0    09.6    a5.0    85.7
Gross National Product              97.7    97.2    95.2       00.7      83.5    09.4    91.0    91.5    92.7    93.6    94.3    95.6
Gross ?'omestic Saving               9.3    17.9    16.2       24.1      27.6    23.4    23.9    21.8    23.4    15.2    12.7    14.5
Not Factor Income                 -2.3    -2.8    -4.0    -11.3    -16.5   -10.6    -9.0    -8.5    -7.3    -6.4    -5.7    -4.4
Net Current Transfers               ..       ..     0.4       1.0       1.1      0.7     0.9      1.1      3.0      2.8     2.5      2.2
Gross National Saving                 ..       ..    11.8      13.9      12.2    13.6    15.9    14.4    19.2    11.5          9.5    12.3
5. National Accounts Grovth Rates (7) at Constant Prices:
Actual                                      Est.           Projections
1965-73 1973-79    1980    19S1        1902      1903    1984    1985    1986    1987 1985-90 1990-95
Gross Domestic Product m.p.          7.0      5.3     0.7      -2.3      -7.0      2.8      7.2     1.1      4.6      3.9      3.5     4,5
Net Indirect Taxes                  ..      ..    -2.9       -1.1      -9.4    27.7    12.5        ..       ..
Agriculture                        7.0     2.0    -0.5        3.1      -4.7      4.0     7.3    -1.3       0.0    -2.5      2.1      4.5
Industry                         28.1      9.3      1.2      -4.2    -13.5      4.1    12.1       1.1      6.1      3.5     4.5      4.5
(of which Manufacturing)            ..      ..       ..        ..        ..      ..       ..       ..       ..
Services                           6.1     5.3      1.0      -3.7      -4.6     1.0      S.0      1.9      4.4      5.7     3.5      4.5
Exports of GCYS                   14.1     4.6    -4.3       11.1      -5.5    -1.3      7.4    -4.9       2.3    19.2      7.6      6.7
Imports of GNYS                  10.0      8.3    -3.4    -26.3    -18.1    13.0    12.5          1.8      9.4     9.1      2.8      5.8
Total Expenditures                   6.4      6.4     0.6    -13.5    -10.6        7.5     8.7      3.0      6.7      0.5     1.8      4.0
Total Consumption                  5.8     5.5    -0.5       -6.5      -7.3      3.S     6.3      3.2      3.6      2.8     2.5      3.7
PrLvate ConsiAptLon              5.5     5.3    -1.0       -6.7      -8.6     5.0      7.4      3.4      4.0     2.1      2.2      3.5
General Governm nt              6.8      6.4      1.5      -5.6     -2.5    -2.9       2.1      2.2      2.1     5.3      3.8      4.5
Gross Domestic Investment          9.4      9.7      4.1    -35.7    -25.9    28.7    19.8        2.4    19.4    -7.5        1.0     5.0
Fixed Investment                 9.6     9.7    -9.4    -24.9    -27.0        8.3    25.9       5.0    14.4    15.6       7.3      5.0
Changes ln Stocks               ---      ---      ---       ---       ---     ---      ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
Capacity to Import                  10.9      7.3    -4.1      -8.0      -2.5      6.1    12.0    -0.5    18.1    -5.6        1.9      7.0
Tems of Trade Adjustment             ---      ---     ---       ---       ---      ---     ---      ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
Gross Domestic Income                6.4      6.0     0.8      -7.3      -6.3      5.0     8.5      2.4      9.1    -4.1       1.5     4.4
Gross National Incvd                 6.3      5.6    -0.2      -9.3      -9.4      7.2      9.2     2.5      9.6    -3.8      2.1      4.7
Gross Natlonal Product               7.0      4.9    -0.3      -4.0    -10.0       4.6      7.8     1.0      4.8      5.0      4.3     4.8
Gross Domestic Saving               10.8      8.7     8.2    -11.8       -0.8    11.1    19.3    -1.0    33.2   -32.5    -3.5          7.3
Net Factor Income                   ..       ..    27.2      32.2      36.4   -14.9      0.4      1.2      3.0    -7.8    -0.9    -0.4
Net Current Transfers               ..       ..    35.9    14S.5        1.6   -33.S    31.7    28.4   178.4    -4.9    -0.4          2.0
Gross National Saving                 ..        .     2.7    -24.1    -26.9    38.2    35.6    -0.2    65.2   -30.5            0.0     8.3



- 34 -
=0A RICA - UIMS   ACCUT  l[mtLaedj                                 Annex  I
-------'-------------'--------------------                        PaRe 2 of  7
C. Phi.  ImLees (1960.100) I                                            Atual.                              got .   Gowth Rates El pa&.l
1960    1961      1n2       1t6      lI" O   196 5"   1966    1"7?  1963-73 1973-60 1940-86
Cm&uinr Irle. (tI   64)                    100.0   137.1    2"0.6    3S0.6   36J.9   043.1   097.6   581.6            3.9    10.0    30.7
o1le.al Piie.. (In 63)                     100.0   163.3    300.2    430.4   067.6   516.2   542.7   622.4            3.6    13.0    33.0
Il Lelt CGM Deflator                       100.0   141.1    239.0    334.2   342.4   034.7   343.7                    4.8    13.8    32.6
Il.lelt lrplditugs Deflator                100.0   135.9    268.0    343.0   387.6   439.3   330.0                    5.3    14.6    32.0
Deflatores fer Skwt.r Value Added:
Asri.ultus l Seeer                       100.0   169.7    350.6    370.3   400.7   058.1   397.6                     ..       ..    34.7
Industrial Sector                        100.0   142.1    271.2    384.2   403.7   513.0   593.9                     ..      ..    34.6
sergyee  U  tes                          100.0   130.0    221.5    294.7   346.3   426.1   300.7                     ..       ..    30.3
D. Other IdLeators:
--------------------            1965-73 1973-80 1960-85  1986-95                                   1963    1973    1980    1985    1990
rowth Rates (Z p. ):
Population                         3.0     2.9      2.6       2.6           Share of Total
Labor Foroe                        3.7     *.0       ..        ..           Labor Fores in:
Gross Natl. Income P.C.            3.3     2.6    -2.1        0.7             Agriculture        46.8    38.8    30.8
Priyete Consumption p.c.           2.5     2.3      2.0       0.1             Industry           19.3    21.0    23.1
Services          33.9    00.2    06.1         .
Total            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
IZort Ilasticity:                    1.4     1.6      1.0       1.1
marginal Savinas Rates:
Gross NatLonal Saving               ..       ..    -0.3       0.2
Gross Dmstic Sawing               31.3    12.0      1.9       0.2
ISOR (period aver-aes):              2.6     6.7      2.1       5.4
E. National Accounts (millions of Colons at 1980 pricLe):
Actual                           Est.                   Projection
1980    1981    1982    1983        1984     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1995
Gross Domestic Product m.p.   41405.5 40469.9 37647.5  38693.9  41491.3 41930.3 03899.5 45698.7 07300.6 48961.4 50683.4 63160.8
Net Indirect Taxes             0862.2  4606.7  4353.9   5558.6   6253.9                    ..      ..       ..       ..      ..
ASriculture                     7372.1  7747.9  7383.6   7678.7   8239.2  8132.2  8197.3  7992.3  8159.3  8329.8  8503.8 10597.3
Industry                      11166.1 10696.7  9254.3   9632.)  10792.9 10907.3 11572.6 12209.1 12758.2 13331.9 13931.5 17361.1
(of vhlch Manufacturina)             ..      ..       ..       ..        ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
Services                      22867.3 22025.3 21009.6  21383.2  22059.2 22890.8 24129.6 25497.2 26383.1 27299.7 28248.2 3520Z.4
Resource Ralance                 -4261.8   952.5  2321.9    717.0    225.7  -569.3 -1469.0  -400.0   258.5   966.2  1789.0  3381.2
Kuports of ONIS               10963.3 12182.3 11517.5  11366.4  12203.8 31608.6 11875.6 14153.2 15223.5 16374.7 17613.0 24405.9
IXorts of CIIS                15245.1 11229.8  9195.6  10609.4  11976.1 12198.0 13344.6 14553.2 14965.0 15368.5 15824.0 21024.7
Total Expedltures               45687.3 39517.4 35325.7  37976.9  41265.6 42519.7 05368.5 45605.6 46434.6 47276.6 48137.8 58549.4
Total Cosusption              30683.9 32445.2 30084.0  31233.0  33186.3 34244.7 35491.1 36470.9 37207.1 37957.5 38722.2 46542.9
Private Consuption          27139.6 25324.1 23144.4  24497.2  26306.9 27214.u 28312.8 28914.7 29366.8 29822.4 30281.3 36024.1
General Goveroaent           7544.3  7121.1  6939.6   6735.7   6879.4  7030.7  7178.3  7556.2  7840.3  8135.0  8440.8 10518.8
Gross Domestic Investment   11003.4  7072.1  5241.6   6744.0   8079.3  8275.0  9877.4  9134.9  9227.5  9321.1  9415.6 12006.5
Wixed Investment             9894.5  7430.0  S363.7   5607.7   7310.0  7676.0  6779.9 10152.3 10866.5 11676.1 12524.9 1597 .3
Changes Ln Stocks            1108.9  -357.8  -122.1    936.2    768.9   599.C  1097.5 -1017.5 -1661.0 -2357.0 -3109.3 -3964.9
Capacity to Import              10963.3 10085.8  9832.2  10433.5  11688.6 11635.5 13741.5 12970.6 13215.1 13464.1 13717.8 19216.5
Term  of Trade Adjustment            0.0 -2096.5 -1665.2   -932.9   -515.2    26.9  1865.9 -1804.5 -2738.9 -3722.2 -4756.4 -620i.0
Gross Domestic Incoe             41405.5 38373.3 35962.3  37761.1  40976.1 41957.2 45765.4 43894.2 44561.6 45239.2 45927.0 56953.7
Gross NatLonal Income            39418.0 35746.0 32378.9  34711.1  37915.3 38858.4 42573.7 00950.6 41643.8 42346.7 43059.6 54146.5
Gross National Product           39418.0 37842.5 34064.2  35643.9  38430.4 38831.5 40707.6 *2755.3 44382.7 46068.9 47816.0 60353.5
Gross Do *tic Saving              6721.6  5928.1  5878.2   6528.1   7789.8  7712.6 10274.3  6930.4  6747.1  6585.1  6448.3  9180.7
Net Factor Income             -1987.5 -2627.4 -3583.3  -3050.0  -3060.9 -3098.9 -3191.7 -2943.4 -2917.8 -2892.5 -2867.4 -2807.3
Net Current Transfers            168.8   019.5   426.1    282.1    371.4   077.0  1327.8  1262.8  1258.0  1253.2  1248.5  1376.7
Gross National Savina             4902.9  3720.3  2721.0   3760.2   5100.3  5090.7  8410.4  5249.9  5087.3  4945.9  4829.4  7750.1



- 35 -
COWA RICA - ZRIEN     13*04                              Annex  I
--------------------                               Page 3of 7
A. Volumea. Value eM ftLoes                             LAtual                         Ut:.                   Pgoj.oetLo
1900    191    19o2       1903     104    IN5    19s0    1907   1ion          1os9    it"    1995
Noexeheade. 3i,p.ts                                                    ---     ---_                 --    --     --        --     --
Coffe                          100.0   135.0   131.4    151.0    150.3   172.9   124.2   170.5   100.0   173.9   130.31  220.0
3enames                        100.0   103.0   104.1    104.0    104.0    37.4    92.9    94.3    %4.          99.7   102.7   119.0
Meat                           100.0   128.0    93.5       53.7     79.0   104.9   134.2    99.1    00.4    73.9    90.7   121.3
sugar                          100.0   102.3    70.7       75.6    143.7    02.4    01.3    02.2    47.5    42.4    42.0    42.0
mooaaa*tuxea                   100.0   100.3    70.4       00.2     04.5    77.9        .        .       .
OthAg 3XPD.gt                   100.0   140.5    05.1      02.1     57.3    00.7    02.7   112.0'  122.7   132'.5   145.7'  234.2'
Total March. Reports Fag       100.0   100.01   30.9       00.      99.0    93.0   107.3   137.4   130.3   144.4   154.1   213.0
Merchandise Reprts
--~~-------------------------  alue-carrent Prices (.1111..  ) -----------------
Coffee                         247.9   240.1   230.9    230.0    207.3   310.1   391.9   329.9   334.4   359.4   300.5   543.9
Banoana                        207.5   224.0   220.1    240.3    251.1   212.2   210.3   237.0   245.0   201.2   274.3   300.
Heat                             70.7    73.9    53.1      31.9     44.9    55.7    09.0    57.3    41.3    45.4    50.5   107.9
Sugar                           40.7    42.0    10.0       23.9     35.5    10.5    11.1    10.0       9.1      0.1     9.5    12.1
Mmirufactures                  344.0   345.2   209.0    275.9    290.7   200. 0         .        .
Other Exiports                  79.7    02.0    05.5       00.1    109.5    74.9   394.1   470.5   550.2   022.0   070.7  1150.0
Total March. Exports FO3       990.5  1000.0   309.0    002.1    999.0   931.4  1065.0  1113.5  1180.6  1293.4  1393.3  2198.2
Merchandise Imports
--------- ----------------------VOLime InMex 1960-100 ------------------
Food                           100.0    79.8    50.0       72.2     74.3    33.3    63.5    74.7    47.2    71.2    75.7   100.6
POL and Other Enargy           100.0    74.3    35.0       34.4     76.2    75.9    34.2    91.3    94.3    99.2   105.2   141.6
Other Imports
Other Consaumer Goods        100.0    97.2    25.6       30.3     57.9    64.3    72.3    78.8    30.9    35.2    90.3   121.5
Other Intermediate Goode    100.0   104.5    66.3        30.6     38.6    35.0    74.0    30.7    02.9    37.2    92.5   124.4
Capital, Goods               100.0    73.6    53.0       49.3     69.7    72.6    72.8    79.4    31.6    35.3    91.0   122.5
Total March. Imports C,F       100.0    78.9    40.3       00.4     77.2    78.5    74.2    60.9    31.4    65.7    90.9   122.1
Merchandise, Imports
--~~-------------------------Value-Current Prices (million  ) -----------------
Food                           244.6   165.0   134.7    167.7    171.1   133.5   197.7   130.6   130.1   193.4   213.0   347.5
POL end Other Energy           229.1   205.3   139.0    133.7    162.7   160.9    92.0   125.3   123.6   126.1   133.7   269.5
Other Imports
Other Consumer Goods         166.7   100.7    41.4       53.2     39.7   101.1    30.3    96.7   106.6   117.5   121.3   174.9
Other Intermediate Goods    562.5   483.7   362.2    431.7    466.1   442.2   564.0   679,8   749.5   025.9   356.2  1229.1
Capital Goods                324.6   258.6   167.2    151.9    211.6   213.5   229.2   276.2   304.5   335.5   347.8   499.4
Total March. Imports CI?      1527.5  1213.3   394.5    993.2   1101.2  1111.2  1163.2  1353.6  1464,3  1603.4  1673.4  2520.4
Country Indices
--~----------------------------Price Indleas 19900100------------------
Merchandise Exports            100.0    94.5    91.3       92.9     90.4    90.4    91.4    73.2    77.9    31.2    81.6    92.9
Merchandise Imports            100.0   101.2    97.       95.0     93.5    92.5    91.9    93.5   105.1   109.3   107.6   120.3
Merchandise Terms of Trade    100.0    93.4    94.0        97.8     96.7    97.7    99.4    74.3    74.1    74 3    75.9    76.9
EPOIERS Indices
Merchandise Exports            100.0    94.5    91.3       92.9     90.4    90.'      ---      ---     ---      --      --       --
Merchandise lmports            100.0   101.2    97.1       95.0     93.5    92.5      ---      ---     ---      --      --       --
Merchandise Terms of Trade    100.0    93.4    94.0        97.3     90.7    97.7      ---      ---     ---      --      --       --
B. Share of Total X or M (Z) at currant pricca             C. Grovth Rates (B) at constant priLes
1965    1973    1930      1935     1990    1995           1965-73 1973-30 1980-85 1986-90 1990-95
Merchandise Exports     -         ---      --   ----         -- ----           -----------------------
Coffee                          41.7    27.3    25.0       33.3     27.7    24.7              51.0    -2.1    11.6      9.6     eu0
Bananas                         25.2    26.3    20.9       22.3     19.7    17.3             272.6   -17.4    -2.7      2.5     3.0
Meat                             2.8      9.3      7.1      6.0      3.6      4.9            338.5    27.4      1.0    -9.3      0.0
Sugar                            4.2      0.2     4.1       1.1      0.7      0.5            197.9   -36.9    -9.0   -14.3      0.0
Manufactures                       .       ..    34.7      23.3        .       .                 .       .
Other Exports                   26.0    30.3      3.0       3.0     43.1    52.3                 .       ..    -4.2    15.2    10.0
Total Merch. Exports FOB       100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0                  .        .     -1.4     9.5     6.7
Merchand!se Imports
Food                            19.4      8.5    16.0      17.0     12.3    13.3                .        ..     3.6     2.5      7.7
POL and Other Energy              4.6     2.7    15.0      14.5      8.0    10.7                .        ..    -5.4     5.7    11.4
Other Imports                   76.0    88.3    69.0       63.6     79.2    75.5
Other Conisumer Goods         11.9    16.9    10.9        9.1      7.3      6.9               ..       ..    -6.5     5.7    11.4
Other Intermediate Goods      38.7    44.2    36.3       39.6     51.2    48.3                              -3.2      5.7    11.4
Capital Goods                 25.4    27.3    21.3       19.7     20.3    19.3                .        ..     6.2     5.7    11.4
Total March. Imports CIF       100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0                  -...           .4.7     5.2    10.3



- 36 -
ehu  MUCA - "*IL          o  pAuIO                           Ann1exT
------------------                           Paae 4 of 7
(=0  Millie" at C4rrunt Frie")
h.tul                           Oat.                   Psojectim
1904    1901    19n        19s       1964    1905    1t"       1"7    1900      1969    19.       1995
A.   2xports of Goods & WPS    1197.0  117S.5  111d.7   11S2.7   1276.0  1220.4  1416.4  144U.2  1554.0  1609.0  1l01.0  2002.1
1. Merchandise (100)           1000.9  1002.6   009.0    032.5    997.5   959.1  1005.0  1115.5  1100.6  1290.4  1393.5  2190.2
2. om-Factor ServiAes           190.9   172.9   247.7    200.2    270.5   201.5   330.6   529.7   354.2   391.4   408.5   600.9
I.  Lzports of Good.s  WS   -1057.7 -1304.0 -1042.4  -1147.7  -1251.7 -1370.8 -1357.2 -1592.9 -1547.7 -1700.5 -1705.0 -2645.5
1.   :ebamA (o   0 02V)       -1575.2 -1090.0  -004.9   -097.0   -9.? -1004.9 -1163.2 -1583.0 -1350.0 -1404.9 -1554.6 -2289.4
2. Non-Factor Services         -202.5  -213.4  -237.5   -249.9   -255.0  -273.9  -194.0  -207.9  -217.7  -241.5  -251.5  -554.1
C.   Rasouree salemon             459.9  -128.5    74.5    -15.0         24.5   -50.4    59.2  -149.7   -12.9   -16.5    16.0   150.4
0.   Not Factor Income            -218.5  -511.5  -521.9   -540.0   -320.1  -290.1  -200.7   204.3  -S01.1  -312.7  -529.4  -344.0
1. Fator Raceipte                20.0    23.0    26.7        39.9     37.7    49.0    44.1    48.2    51.7    55.9    59.2    74.4
2. Paetor Payments             -239.5  -335.1  -400.6   -379.9   -557.8  -339.9  -326.8  -334.5  -352.0  -368.5  -350.6  -418.4
(interest payments)         -170.5  -135.1  -109.0   -520.9   -24S.5  -354.0  -306.5  -260.7  -279.0  -290.5  -309.7  -330.4
S.   Net Current Transfer*          14.5    27.1    S5.9       69.0    140.9   219.0    54.7    56.5    59.0    41.6    41.5   4U.8
I. Current ReceLpts              35.5    36.9    45.9        78.3    151.3   229.3        ..       ..       ..      ..
a. workers remittaces            ..      ..       ..        ..        ..      ..       ..       ..      ..
b. other current trans.          ..      ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
2. Current Payments               19.0     9.8      8.0       9.3      10.4    10.3       ..       ..       ..
F.   Current Account Balance   -663.9  -412.7  -271.7   -286.0   -154.9  -129.5  -186.0  -399.5  -275.0  -287.6  -271.9  -138.6
G.   Long-Term Capital In.flow   119.2        6.4  -195.2   1001.4   -311.5    S0.1    36.1  -2U6.8   -26.2   -60.6   -73.0    20.1
1. Direct Irvest net             48.1    66.2    26.5        55.3     52.0    65.2    65.1    64.5    68.0    72.6    72.4    05.2
2. Official Capital Grant&       -5.2    -0.1       6.3      46.0    109.0   175.6   115.3    51.2   160.0   140.0   120.0   100.0
3. Not LT Loans (DRS data)       86.4   -23.3   -94.6    118.7   -279.1   -94.4  -144.3  -502.5  -254.2  -273.1  -266.2  -165.0
a. Dlsbursements             532.5   366.0   243.5    429.7    258.4   310.8   189.5    65.1   202.0   210.2   205.6   212.5
b. Repaymnts                -446.1  -509.3  -338.1   -311.0   -517.5  -405.2  -469.3  -587.6  -456.2  -483.3  -471.8  -377.5
4. Other LT Inflows (Net)       -10.1   -36.4  -133.4    781.4   -193.4   -66.3           *        .
B.   Total Other Items (not)    216.9   120.4   560.5   -777.2    191.7    91.9   205.2   609.6   363.0   399.1   376.2   171.3
1. Net Short Term Capital       256.4    50.0   196.6   -059.1        64.4   -30.6    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0           2.5
2. Capital Flows N.I.              5.0     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0   190.2   594.6   340.0   384.1   361.2   168.0
3. Errors and Omissions         -69.5    69.6   163.7        01.9    107.3   122.5        ..       ..       ..       ..
I.   Change in Net Reserves        172.0   111.5  -159.4    -58.1    -97.7   -99.8   -54.5    76.7   -61.7   -51.0   -30.6   -52.9
1. Net Credit from the IM?       -0.3    45.7    -9.8        99.0    -34.0    30.0   -36.0   -62.2   -15.1   -22.1   -24.4           0.0
2. Other Restrve Changes        175.6    65.8  -129.6   -157.1    -63.7  -129.0   -18.5   138.9   -46.6   -28.9    -6.2   -52.9
r- indicates increase]
Shares of GDP (current US$):
_____________________________
1. Resource Balance                -11.1    -2.3      0.0      -0.1       0.2    -0.3      1.3    -3.3    -0.3    -0.4        0.S      2.5
2. Total Interest Payments          -4.1    -2.4    -1.1       -4.1      -1.5    -1.8    -7.0    -6.4    -6.7    -6.7    -7.0    -5.7
3. Current Account Balance        -16.0    -7.2    -2.6        -2.2      -1.0    -0.7    -4.3    -8.9    -6.2    -6.2    -5.0    -2.2
4. LT Capital Inflow (line G)        2.9     0.1    -2.0        7.7      -2.0     0.4      0.0    -6.4    -0.6    -1.3    -1.6         0.3
S. Not Credit from the IMF          -0.0     0.8    -0.1        0.8      -0.2     0.2    -0.8    -1.4    -0.3    -0.5    -0.5          0.0
hsmorandum Item:
GDP (milllions of current US$)  4831.4  2623.0  2606.6   3146.8   3563.1  3813.9  4395.1  4474.4  4435.5  4646.2  4725.7  6262.0
Foreign Exchang. Reserves:
1. Int'l. Reserves (IFS lld)    145.6   131.4   226.1    311.5    405.0   506.4   523.4             ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
2. Gold (end yr London price)    51.3    11.5    23.8          33.6       7.1    19.0    27.0       ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
3. Gross Reserves incl. Gold    196.9   142.9   249.9    344.8    412.1   525.3   550.3             ---      ---     ---      ---      ---
4. Or. Res. in Months Lpirts    -1.7    -1.6    -3.7          -4.6      -5.0    -6.3    -5.7           ---      ---          ---      ---
Exchange Rates (Colones/US$):
_____________________________
1. Nom. Off. X-Rate (IFS rh)         8.6    21.8    57.4       41.1      44.5    50.5    56.0       ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
2. Real Eff. X-Rate Base 1980   100.0          ..       ..    122.1    125.3   129.4   149.9        ---      ---      ---     ---      ---
3. X-Rate for GNP Conversion        8.6    21.8    37.4        41.1      44.5    50.5    56.0       ---      ---     ---      ---      ---



- 37 -
CO U RICA - MMlSXL CAPITAL AM MM                             Annex  I
---------------------------Page 5of 7
(ms adllitem   at Current Prie;s)
Aetual                                gat.                   Projection
190    19"1    1982    1963         1964    1985    19i4    1967   1W8    1989    i990    1995
A. DiLburze nto
1. Public 6 PublIely Oum". LT   451.0   312.0   188.5    429.7    238.4   310.8   169.5   128.0  1262.5   589.3   551.8   366.5
Offi.4l Crdltorn             192.7   171.7   147.6    264.6    1864.6   222.7   168.9   106.8   439.6   185.2   167.6   147.5
96Ltlatnr.l                49.6   6".0    49.7         69.7     84.5   157.5   118.7    44.5   111.5   106.9   ;12.6   117.5
of Which IUD              29.4    22.3    19.7       23.5      36.2    64.1    55.2       9.6    44.5    47.5    45.2    4f.2
of vhich IDA               0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Ullater1                   103.1   104.7    97.9    194.9    102.1    63.2    30.1    62.3   320.1    76.5    55.0    30.0
P,ivate Creditors            235.5   140.3    20.9    185.1         1 6    88.1      0.6    21.1   823.0   404.1   364.2   218.8
Suppliers                   13.0      8.9      4.8      2.1       0.9      0.0      0.0      3.8     2.1    10.0    23.0    50.0
iaancial Markets           223.3   131.4    16.1    163.0        50.9    88.1       0.6    17.3   820.9   394.1   361.2   168.8
2. Private ken-Guaranteed LT    101.3    54.0    75.0           0.0       0.0      0.0      ..       ..       ..
3. Total LT Disbursementa          532.5   366.0   243.5    429.7    238.4   310.8   189.5   128.0  1262.5   604.3   566.8   381.3
4. DK Purchases                     20.0    62.0      0.0    118.5        0.0    34.5      0.0      0.0       ..
5. Not Short-Term Capitdl             ..      ..       ..        ..        ..       ..    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
6. Total lnel. ne & Net ST        352.5   428.0   243.5    348.2    23a.4   345.3   204.5   143.0  1319.0   632.4   583.1   396.3
5. Repayments
1. Public & Publicly Gu-r. LI    75.1    83.4    55.5    104.1    107.0   126.7   188.0   115.1   958.2   440.4   428.9   370.0
Official Creditors            2t.9    33.8    41.6        68.6      C0.3    95.3   170.9    91.3   326.2   148.6   150.8   206.0
Multilateral                i3.5    15.7    17.7        38.2     27.0    44.1    48.7    58.0    96.2    86.9    88.8   143.1
of which ILRD              6.6      V.5    12.1      17.5      19.2    21.8    28.7    28.2    40.3    44.9    49.1    60.7
of whieh IDA               0.1      0.1     0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2       ..       .        ..      ..
Bilateral                    7.4    13.1    23.9       30.4      33.3    51.2   122.2    33.3   230.0    61.7    61.9    62.9
Private Creditors             54.2    49.6    13.9        35.5     46.7    31.4    17.0    23.8   632.0   291.8   278.1   164.0
Suppliers                    8.6      6.5      2.1      4.5       5.6      6.6      1.8     5.0    14.4       0.0      0.0    50.0
Financial Markets           45.6    43.1    11.8        31 0     41.1    24.8    15.3    18.8   617.6   291.8   278.0   114.0
2. Private Non-Guaranteed LT        U.0    94.4    63.3        33.0      31.6    15.2    15.2    61.3    39.8    42.9    42.9          7.5
3. Total LT Repaymnts              163.1   177.8   120.8    137.1    138.6   141.9   203.2   176.4   998.0   483.3   471.8   377.5
4. DR Repurchases                   12.2    10.7      4.4      12.5      24.9    21.7    36.0    62.2    56.6    35.2    25.7          0.0
C. Interest
1. Pub1Lc 1 Publicly Guar. LT   129.1   115.6    78.0    500.8    222.2   322.1   195.6   115.7   506.0   280.2   301.4   328.8
Official Creditors            41.1    38.1    44.4        58.5     51.5    73.7   105.6    73.1   199.8   104.3   106.3   108.7
Multilateral                26.3    27.0    30.1        38.3     27.0    38.1    53.7    51.8    82.1    73.4    75.2    81.9
of which IeRD             14.6    14.6    16.1       15.5      14 7    17.5    26.1    34.5    41.8    42.7    43.0    41.3
of which IDA               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0,0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Bllateral                   14.8    11.1    14.3       20.2      24.5    35.6    52.0    21.3   117.7    30.9    31.1    26.8
Private Creditors             64.0    77.5    33.6    442.3    170.7   248.4    90.0    42.6   306.3   175.9   195.1   220.1
Suppliers                    2.1      1.1      1.0      1.0       2.9      1.7      0.7      0.3     3.1      0.9      2.4     5.6
Financlal Markets           85.9    76.4    32.6    441.3    167.8   246.7    89.3    42.3   303.2   175.0   192.8   214.4
2. Private Non-Guaranteed LT        41.0    19.3    31.0       28.1      21.1    19.7    21.5    18.4    15.4    17.4    14.9          7.3
3. Total LT Interest              170.1   134.9   109.0    528.9    243.3   341.8   217.1   134.1   521.4   297.7   316.3   336.0
4. DU Service Charges                3.7     4.7      7.7       8.5      14.3    14.1    17.5    13.2    11.1    10.3         8.3      1.6
5. Interest Paid on ST Debt           ..       ..       ..       .         ..       ..    14.5    16.0    20.1    21.2    22.7    25.1
6. Total incl. IMF I Net ST    1i7.8   139.6   116.7    537.4    257.6   355.9   249.1   163.3   552.7   329.2   347.3   362.8
Memorandum Items:
Refinancing
Dlsbursements                                                                          0.0    42.9  1060.6   394.1   361.2   168.8
Aoortlaation                                                                           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    91.3
Interest                                                                               0.0      0.0    10.0   107.1   152.9   217.4
Arrears (Principal and Interest)                                                       224.0   551.0
[continued on next page]



- 38 -
COS   IC& -   UsMAL, CAPITAL U DM                         Annex  I
--------------------------------------                   Page 6 of  7
Actual                               2Jt.                  Projection
19m     iwi    i1a    i9ws          1994   165    1946    1987    Los.$   1989    1990    1995
D. Ixternal Debt (DOD)
_____,________________
1. PIblc & Publicly Ouar. LT  1487.4  2206.4  2424.2   3224.2   32*9.5  5579.5  5575.0  342S.0  3877.3  5976.2  4099.2  4465.2
OffetaLl CreLte,s           777.d   695.0  1064.1   1372.3   1453.7  1673.9  100.1  1974.3  2087.6  2124.3  2141.1  2041.0
bltilAteral               034.6   462.6   511.6    541.9    591.2   724.6   924.9  1037.6  1053.1  1073.2  1097.0  1141.9
of  bleb r2D            176.3   191.0   199.4    245.6    222.6  2US.0   417.5   499.5   503.7   504.5   502.3   487.0
of which IDA              5.0      4.9     4.6       4.5      4.4     4.2       ..       ..      ..
Bilateral                 34.2   412.2   532.3    S30.4    844.5   949.3   675.2   936.5  1034.5  1051.1  1l44.1   919.1
Private Creditors           909.4  1311.4  1360.1   1655.9   1653.8  1905.6  1774.9  1646.7  1769.7  1852.0  1958.1  2404.2
_uppL-ers                  31.9    34.3    35.7       26.6     23.8    12.6    10.9    17.0       4.7    14.7    37.6    67.0
Fin.-ial  erkets          677.7  1277.1  1324.4   1825.3   1830.0  1692.6  1764.0  1631.7  1765.0  1637.3  1920.5  2337.2
2. Private Son-Guaranteed LT    411.9   371.5   361.2    346.2    316.6   301.6   306.4   245.1   205.3   177.4   149.5    90.0
3. Total Long-Term DOD          2099.3  2577.9  2805.4   3574.4   3606.1  3881.1  3U81.4  3868.1  4082.6  4153.6  4248.7  4555.2
4. IKr Credit                     56.9   102.6    92.9    191.9    155.6   168.3   172.0   109.6    94.7    72.6    48.2           6.3
5. Short-Torm Debt               575.0   536.0   547.0    460.0    269.0   364.0   191.0   206.0   221.0   236.0   251.0   268.5
6. Total lncl. fU & Set ST    2731.2  3216.5  3445.3   4246.3   4030.9  4433.6  4244.4  4183.9  4398.3  4462.2  4547.9  4850.0
Percent of Total LT DOD:
1. On Concesuional Terms          15.4    13.1    14.1       1b.2     18.4    19.1    ;3.1        ..       ..      ..      .
2. With Variable I:t. Rates       46.8    33.1    52.7       58.1     57.5    57.9    57.8        ..       ..
Z. 3-nk and IDA Ratios
Share of Total Long-Term DOD
1. IBRD as I of Total              8.5      7.4     7.1       5.8      6.2      7.3    10.8    12.9    12.3    12.2    11.8    10.7
2. IDA as Z of Total               0.2      0.2     0.2       0.1      0.1      0.1       ..      ..        .      ..       .
3. 13RD+IDA as I of Total          8.7      7.6     7.3       5.9      6.3      7.5    10.6    12.9    12.3    12,2    11.8    10.7
Share of Total LT Debt Service
1. IJRD as Z of Total              6.4      7.4    12.3       5.0      8.9      6.1    13.1    20.2      5.4    11.2    11.7    14.3
2. IDA as S of Total               0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.1      0.0       ..      ..       ..      ..      .
3. IBRD+IDA as I of Total          6.4      7.4    12.3       5.0      8.9      8.2    13.1    20.2      5.4    11.2    11.7    14.3
F. DOD-to-Exports Ratios (a)
1. Long-Term Debt/Exports        175.3   219.3   251.2    315.6    282.6   318.0   274.0   268.0   266.0   245.8   235.8   162.6
2. flW CredLt/Exports               4.8     8.7     8.3      16.9     12.2    15.4    12.1       7.6     6.2      4.3     2.7      0.2
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports        48.0    45.6    49.0       42.4     21.1    29.8    13.5    14.3    14.4    14.0    13.9    10.3
4. LT+DW+ST DOD/Exports          228.0   273.6   308.5    374.9    315.9   363.3   299.7   269.9   286.6   264.1   252.4   173.1
C. DOD-to-GDP Ratios
1. Loos-Torm Debt/CDP              43.5    98.3   107.6    113.6    101.2   101.8    66.3    66.4    92.0    89.4    89.9    72.5
2. flU Credit/GDP                   1.2     3.9     3.6       6.1      4.4      4.9     3.9      2.5     2.1      1.6     1.0      0.1
3. Short-Term Debt/GDP            ;1.9    20.4    21.0       15.3      7.5      9.5     4.3      4.6     5.0      5.1     5.3      4.6
4. LT+DW+ST DOD/SDP               56.5   122.6   132.2    134.9    113.1   116.2    96.6    93.5    99.2    96.0    96.2    77.2
b. Debt Servicellxports (a)
1. Publie   Guaranteed LT         17.0    16.9    12.0       53.4     25.8    36.S    27.1    16.0    95.4    42.6    40.5    24.9
2. Private Non-Guaranteed LT      10.6      9.7     6.6       5.4       4.1     2.9     2.6      5.5     3.6      3.6     3.2      0.5
3. Total LT Debt Service           27.8    26.6    20.6      56.6     29.9    39.6    29.7    21.5    99.0    46.2    43.7    25.5
4. 121 Repurchases+Serv.Chga.       1.3     1.3     1.1       1.9      3.1      2.9     3.6      5.2  . 4.4       2.7     1.9      0.1
5. Interest Only on ST Debt          ..      ..       ..       ..        ..      ..     1.0      1.1     1.3      1.3     1.3      0.9
6. Total (LT+DU+ST Int.)          29.1    27.9    21.7       60.7     33.0    42.6    34.5    27.8   104.7    50.2    46.9    26.4
1. Interest burden Ratios
1. Total Interest/GDP              3.6      5.3     4.5      17.1      7.2      9.3     5.7      3.6    12.5      7.1     7.3      5.8
2. Total InterestiExports (a)    14.5    11.9    10.5        47.4     20.2    29.2    17.6    11.3    36.0    19.5    19.3    12.9
(a) RatLo to *e_ports* with latter defined to include mrchandise, all services and workers remittances.



- 39 -
COSTA RtICA - PULIC hIXAPC, ini  AM CRDI?                           Annex  I
Actual                        Not.    Growth Rate (2 Pa&.
1960     1961      1962    INS    lo4    Igo$  1to"    1960-64   1963    1966
1. Public finanes (2 shares of GOP)                 ----      ----      ---     -----             --         --   ---       ..      ..
Centrael Goeuiment
A.    Total Ourvent Receipts                        12.2      13.4      14.2    16.6    17.0    16.6    15.7    32.1    18.3    16.6
1. Indirect Taxn Revenues                         6.7       9.9     10.0    12.1    12.2    12.3    11.2    32.3    24.0    13.0
(of which fec. public sector)                   .         .        .         .       .        .       *
2. Direct Tar Reveinues                           2.9       3.0       3.3     4.0      3.3     2.9      2.7    43.0      6.?    13.0
(of whLch ftc. public soctor)                   .         .        .         .       .        .       *
3. 3cm-Tea Current Receipts                       0.6       0.3      0.6      0.3      1.3     1.2      1.6    74.6    -0.6,   67.7,
(of which frc. public sector)                   .         .        .         .       .        .       .
S.    Total Ourrent Lrnpendituares                  13.3      14.4      11.7    16.2    16.6    13.7    13.2    43.0    13.4    22.3
1. Interest Payments                              2.2       2.3      2.7      2.9      2.6     2.4      2.3    46.9    10.3    29.0
2. Exchange Subsidies                               ..      0.6       0.1      ..        .       .        .
S. Other Transfer Payments                        3.3       4.4      6.1      6.1      6.3     6.2      3.9    46.7    17.3    19.7
(of which to pubIlc sector)                    3.6      2.6       3.3      4.4     4.6      4.2     3.8    46.9       9.3    13.1
4. Goods and Services                             0.7       0.7      0.7      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.6    46.1    23.3    11.6
3. Wages and Salaries                             7.1       6.1      3.2      6.4      6.7     6.1      6.0    38.1      9.5    23.9
C.    Current Rudget Balance                        -3.1      -1.0      -0.6     0.3      0.3     1.0      0.3
D.    Capital Receipts                                 .         .        .        .       .         .       .
B.    Capital Expenditures                           4.7       3.7       2.3     3.9      3.4     3.0      3.9    29.3      7.6    62.3
1. Financial Investments & Grants                 1.9       1.6       1.1     1.7      1.1     1.3      2.7    22.0    39.4   173.0
(of which to public sector)                    1.7      1.2       0.7      1.0     0.6      1.1     2.3    13.7    58.0   167.9
B. udgetary Real Investment                     2.6       2.0       1.2     2.3      2.3      1.8     1.2    33.6    -7.4   -16.4
F.    Overall Balance Financed by:
1. Interest in Arrears .                             .      0.9      1.0       .        ..      ..       ..       ..      .
2. External Borrowin. (net)                       1.6       1.7      1.3      0.6      1.     -0.3      1.4    40.7 
a. disburseaments..                                       .         ..       .       ..       .        .
b. repayments                                   .          .        .        .       .        .       .
3. Not Domestic Financing                         6.2       2.1      0.5      3.1      1.3     2.3      2.0    -4.3   126.4       1.6
a. non-bsank borrowing (not)..                             .        .        .        .      ..        .
b. borrowing from banks..                                  .        ..       .        .      ..        .
G. GDP at current market prices                    41403    57102    97503  129314  158674  192425  242118    39.9    21.3    25.6
(in milLions of Colones)
II. Money and Credit (Monetary
Survey data from ITS)
A. MilLions of Colones at end year;
Money supply                                   7271.0  10632.0  16446.0 25619.0 30132.0 32439.0 42467.0    42.7          7.7    31.0
Money + Quasi-Money                           17236.0  32271.0  40993.0 56143.0 65764.0 76002.0 92136.0    39.6    13.6    2!.3
Total Not Domestic Credit                     22364.0  24999.0  31160.0 56421.0 65944.0 70977.0 87888.0    31.0          7.6    23.6
To Government (not)                         60035.0   8629.0   6336.0  6991.0  9952.0  8939.0 13710.0         5.6   -10.2    53.4
To Official Entities                         4094.0   5132.0   6756.0 22610.0 26733.0 27694.0 33990.0    59.9          4.3    21.9
To Private Sector                           10265.0  11236.0  16068.0 24820.0 29239.0 34144.0 40166.0    29.9    16.6    17.7
Not Foreign Assets                             -536.0 -12177.0  -1671.0  4875.0  6518.0 16723.0 21977.0          --      --       --
Not Other Assets L Liabilities.                4392.0 -19430.0 -11664.0  5153.0  8696.0 11698.0 17707.0          --      --       --
S. Offsets to Expansion of MqM(X):
Not Foreign Assets                               -3.1    -77.4    116.2    44.3    37.9    60.1    32.5          --
Credit to Government                             46.4       4.2    -26.1       17    10.0    -9.9    29.5        --      --       --
Credit of Official Entities                      23.8       6.9     41.6    91.4    43.1    11.1    37.7         --      --       --
Credit to Private Sector                         59.6       6.3     55.4    57.8    45.9    47.9    37.4         --      --       --
Net Other Assets & LiabLilties                   26.6   -159.9      69.0   111.1    36.8    29.3    37.2         --      --       --
Increase in M4oney + Quasimoney                 100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          --      --       --
13-Jul-88



- 40 -                                         Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BSAK SNOOP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA 1/
. . ......... ............... ... .... . ......... .. .
A. Statement of Bank Loans
As of September 30. 1988
(USS million)
._................................... ........... .......................... . ....... , _......
Fiscal                                                            Amount less          Undis-
Loan No.      Year          borrower                Purpose                  Cancellations           bursed
_...................... ......... .................... _.. .... ...... _. .................. ................................ .......
28 loans and one credit fully disbursed                      464.76
1935        1981    AyA                  Water Supply                               26.00            2.38
2519        1985    Costa Rica           Technical Assistance                        3.50            0.75
2764   3/  1987    Costa Rica            Atlantico Agriculture                      26.00           26.00
................ .....  ....... ........
Total                                                        520.26
Of which has been repaid                                      194.64
Total now outstanding                                        325.62
Amount sold                    11.10
Of which has been repaid:    11.10                              0.00
7otal now held by Bank  2/                                    325.62
Total undisbursed                                                             29.13
.  .... .................. ....
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
3/  Net yet effective.



- 41 -
Annex II
Paae 2 of 2
COSTA RICA
9. Statement of IFC Investments
As of September 30, 1988
(US$ million)
. .... _.... _......... ...................._. ._............. t. . ... .... ... ....... .......... ...................... 
Fiscal                                                                          ---Original Approvals .-------
Year          Obligor                     Type of business                       Equity         Loan       Total
1963-76   Productos de Concreto,           Cegent & Construction
S.A.                            Materials                            0.21         0.38        0.59
1978-86   Scott Paper Company de
Costa Rica, S A.            Pulp and Paper Products                  0.00         4.00        4.00
1979       Maricultura, S.A.               Food & Food Processing                   0.70         1.40        2.10
1982       Matas de Costa Rica, S.A.   Ornamental Plants                            0.00         1.52        1.52
Total Gross Coinitments                                                  0.91        7.30         8.21
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                                                 0.91         3.91        4.82
Total Comnitment now held by IFC                                         0.00        3.39         3.39
fl... me.  U.n.....  ...  ......
------------------------............---------.-........-....--  ....-........--....    .-.-.-   ..----.-..----.-.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
Second Structure Adiustment Loan
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare project: 6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Ministries of Finance, Economy, External Trade
and the Central Bank
(c) First presentation to the Bank: March 1987
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1987
(e) Completion of Negotiations: August 3, 1988
(f) Planned Date for Effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The following condition has been established for the loan's effectiveness:
(a) approval of the tariff law, para. 66.
The following conditions have been established for the release of the
second tranche-
(a) three equal semi-annual tariff reductions should have been
implemented between June 30, 1988 and June 30, 1989; in accordance
to the calendar indicated in paras. 61-63;
(b) the amount of prior deposit in Colones required from importers
purchasing foreign exchange should have been reduced from 50
percent to 30 percent by June 30, 1989;
(c) the new export incentive system should be satisfactorily operating
by June 30, 1989;
(d) producer and consumer prices for beans, corn, and rice should be
equalized during 1988;
(e) producer support nominal terms in prices for yellow corn should
have been kept constant in 1988, and should not exceed 1.4 times
the international five year average in 1989;



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(f) producer support prices for beans should have been set not to
exceed 1.45 times their five year international price average
during 1989;
(g) producer support prices for rice should have been set not to
exceed 1.4 tims their five-year international price average
during 1989;
(h) CNP's monopoly on imports shall be ceased and licenses to permit
traders to import basic grains be granted starting in 1988;
(i) the public commercial banks over 180 day overdue portfolio shall
have been reduced to 5 percent of total outstanding loans made by
such banks as of December 31, 1988, and to 4 percent as of June
30, 1989;
(j) subsidized credit granted by public commercial banks shall have
been kept at the December 31, 1986 level of 4 5.3 billion in
nominal terms and seasonal variation shall not have exceeded an
average of 5 percent in real terms;
(k) Superintendancy of Banks shall have implemented regulations aimed
at:
(i)    allowing banks to charge penalty interest rates for debts
not paid at their maturities;
(ii)   prohibiting banks to register as income interest accrued on
loans that have been past due for more than 180 days;
(iii)  instructing banks to publish annual financial statements in
newspapers with nation-wide circulation; and
(iv)   requiring banks to have their financial statements audited
by external auditors;
(1)  public sector savings shall have reached 5.7 percent of GDP in
1988, and provision should have been made in the 1989 budget to
increase public savings to an unweighted 1988-89 average of at
least 6 percent of GDP;
(mj the projected three-year public investment program furnished to
the Bank in March 1988 shall have been implemented on its 1988
budget; and
(n)  the Government shall not have proposed new legislation
establishing earmarked revenues during 1988 and 1989.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
The following conditions have been established for the release of the third
tranche:
(a) a fourth equal semi-annual tariff reduction should have been
implemented in accordance vith the calendar indicated in paras.
61-63, on December 31, 1989.
(b)  the amount of prior deposit in ColonQs required from importers
purchasing foreign exchange shall have been reduced to 10 percent
by December 31, 1989;
(c)  producer support prices for corn, beans and rice should have been
set not to exceed 1.4 times their internat.onal five-year price
a-erage during 1990;
(d)  the public commercial banks over 180-day overdue portfolio shall
have been reduced to 3 percent of total outstanding loans made by
such banks as of December 31, 1989;
(e) public sector savings shall have rea ned at least an unweighted
average of 6 percent of GDP during 88-89, and the 1990 budget
should have made provisio-n to incr se public savings to an
envisaged average for the 1988-90 period of at least 6 percent of
GDP: and
(f) the projected three-year public investment program furnished to
the Bank in March 1988 shall have been implemented on its 1988-89
component.



COSTA RICtt Structural Adiust_nt Program -- Matrix of Is-ueO- tmaure. and Acti me
Reae    mProject. and flu
Structural Issues                         Actions Taken by Government                 esures to be Taken                       tMnitorabl  Action- *nd Tin-                 Ikz
I E xaort and Trade Sector
-  Anti-export bias of the           -  Iepleaentetion of first pheoe          -  Adjustment of tariff. during            -  Approeal of preannounced timing
trade regime                         rationalization of CACM tariff            1968-9O in line with a                     of tariff reform by Congres
regimee  including reduction of           preannounc.d program to reach a            (lWR)
highest noes eal tariffs bels             ceiling of 40T and a floor of
701, with aome exceptions.                5S.  Intermediate inputs and
capital goods sou Id hF  . a
ceiling of 201- Tariffs on
shoes and texti les will be
adjusted o,er a fix.-yxar
period.
-  Nred for a stable incentio-       -  Implee.ntotion of crawling peg            Real exch-nge rat. to l.                - eQuarterly reduction of prior           DW Stand-by exchange rPae progro
regime to encourage priiote          exchange rate regime, *ith                _eintained at attrectixe leels             deposit requirement for i Worts
sector inoeataent ir non-            periodic mini-adjustments                 for non-traditional sxports                starting in April 1e88.
traditional saporte
intended for non CACt            -  Inconti.e regi me systo   ntd              Rationolized incentive system          -  Approval of  DIEX propoeed
mrkets.                              export contract systae to                 according to MINEK proposals of            system (Decaber  1US).
coordinata benefita to                    9/19/87.
*eporters.
-  Acces  to GATT (109).
-  Establishment of pri,v,tetly
administered trede zone in 19S.
-  Application for memership in
OATT. 
-  Opening of air cargo
traneportetion to foreign air                                                                                                                                      1
carriers.                                                                                                                                                       O4



St   usar l I _                             kAct on. Taken b.' Covarn_nt               Imur_ to be Tb.k n                            o.itoruhl- Action- Tisinn
II   Ariculturnl Pr,iina Folicigj
P .cing Pol cics for basic         -  Fr-ezing of nominal support              -  Gradual substtution of preant            -  During 196. corn producor               Atlantic  Project Iean.
grain crops that do not               price, to producers of beans and            price support syate  tosrds on-.             upport prices  ill be kept
reflect  orld eurket priceo           corn during 1967                            using a. reference international            constant at their 1967 nosi_l
offering inadequate                                                                mrket prices for bean.s  rice              term.
inc.ntiv-s                        -  Liberalization of rice price.  in            and corn by reaching annual
1987.                                      *gr._ants on spport pricee               -  During ION. rice producer
that  uld reduce by 190.                  support price    i II be set et
domeatic produc.r protection to            1.4 ti_u  its 10-year averae af
a eamimu. of 1.4 ti.e  the prior            internetional prices.
10-year avage of internationl I
prices for b*ans. 1.3 for yel lo        -  During 1963  bean Producer
corn and 1. 4 ti_a" for ehito              suport prieseo   il be eat at 
eorn,                                      prie- oquivalent to 1.5 ti;m
its 10-yer average of
int,rnstional prices.
Public sector eanopoly on          -  Transfer of iport rights on              -  Import liberalization in basic           -  During 1916. the Go.*rwnmt will
ieports of uow bsasic                 rice to tho private sector,                 grain.                                      l,iinate OIP   msnopoly to
grains,                                                                                                                       basic grains..
-  Increead eoptition  in                  -  Fros 196. _rbetig rol- of  0 NW
inreting of basic grains                   .ill be li;ited to
production.                                coercialization af basic
grains produeod by small
producers  os defined by the                                                 04
Central bank.
4A



StrueturaJ..m u_Actions Taken bc G"onrn_nt                                                 %iot u- o b. Taen                       L  jtorabls Action- sad Timine              Iamni*x
III. Public Sector Nenmemnt
-  Meed to  ncras.s o-erft I          -  1967/1968 t.. actione to                 -  1986-90 eonsol hdatd budget to           -  PubI ic sector as ioge of S. 7  of          TAL studlie  t  i66roe- budet
pubic sector *,.ne-                   ,ncr.s." re,.nu" at a rote of               reach a l.el of public  Ovins               aP in 1966. 6.25 of GD  in                  preparetion and mlleeetion.
1.0J  of (DP per year.                     of  5.5  of GDP by 1990.                    1969. and 6.5 of GDP in 190.
-  Transport Sct.. Leo  be l ng
-  Elimination af tranwfors to                 pr_ered.
r,ilsay coepsny in fol loeing
crour., ma-imu  of    1n6
.l;l on in 1to"; sd no
transfers froe  129.
-  Leited di.cr.tionary                -  Strict.r control of actual               -Rtductio, of th. ratio of                  -  Maintenance of pr ent policy by             IIF Stend-by                       I
authority to _ng. public               budget al location on vart of               earmerked tao.e and forced                  Ministry of Financ.  DOC"esr
e.penditure  given hieh                Finance   inistry.                          *xpenditurus fro  their 1987                196)
perc..to.r of  armarked                                                            levl
expend i tur--.
-  Need to reduce public sector        -  1964 Emereency L-a wibh                  -  Inpl.ntotion of di,estore                   Rei.  in July 1969 and Dnc_6*r
sis. and provide incentives            diesetiture program of                      Program *-  pecified by Le..                19S9                                                                      la
for priust. *ctor                      Oo,ernment'. onned CODSAa                                                                                                                                         0 
act i v i t iee.                       enterpri es                                                                                                                                                        e
-  To. fefora Project to rerd              -  Approval of the te. reform                                                                                             04
rointesetent of corporate                  projact                                                                                                                Ph
proj et. pree.svuel for Congrees
pprvat I -



slasdA       Praise.sdf
Structural Issues                         Actions Taken by Cowsrneont               Mapsures to be Taken                      Mcnitorsbls Actions and Tisinrs           Sl nti
IV. Financ ial Sector
-  head to inc'as** financial        -  Liberali zation of intrest rat.        -  End to generalized debt                -   bintenance of credit policy           TAL studies on public banks'
soving. and to ipron-                and credit allocbtion control             reschedulings  ith subsidized                                                      nagement end A.a s-  sg___t.
their allocation                                                               cr-dit fros G-ornsnt aourcs..
-  Totel subsidized credit r.duc.d        -  Proportional raduction of              -  Lisit subidized credit to
to about 161 of total lnding              subsidized credit and allocation          agriculture and industrial
only to sall producers                    producers at % 5.4 billion
unless pronision is ads to use
grant funds fro, foreign
source-.
Sp.
-  Limit susidized credit to all S
farsr  producing basic grains
to its Decenber 31. 111g5 soinal
Need to  mpron-  efficiency       -  Draft La. submitted to Congress        -  Iapro-ed operating rula.               -  Iapleantation of new scenting
of and competition in the           to rolan ad-inistrstins controls                                                     procedures and finncial cheargs
banki g system.                      on public banks.                          Reduction of non-psrforaing               on non-perforaing portfolio
portfolio and reeapitslizstion            (Dacembar lwU).
-  Program to elo. privata banks             of public bsnks.                                                                                                     :111
to intermediate financial asts
of less than l40-dsys of               -  Iaplentstion of pVogre  to             -  Reduction of public banks's an-                                         a  M
maturity.                                 allo  private banba                       perforaing portfolio to M  of
intermadiation of finncial                totl portfolio by Desber                                              a   <
sts aith saw   tis of lao                 1958. 4% by June 199. a1nd S by hP
than 10b-day-                             Dacenker 1909                                                          La



Str,ctue rl lose                           Actions Taken by Coverr_nt              ~     a.re  to b. Takeon                         lnitoreb i, Actions anu T;.imi                m
IV. Fina.ci.l Sector tCont'd4
-  N..d to  tre.nghe.n                -  Draft (ae  aitt.d to Con.grm ,              Approv-1 of L.-                          -  Sapt.d,.r 1968
-P-ervi.io- of th,                    to .t.ngtreq th   vp..i.ion of
finei.l a.ctor.                       financial institution. by                                                            -  Cneral p.blicatin of belanc.
Auditori. CGneral de  antco.                                                             heot. end inee   *atmtmeto of
(AGO).                                                                                 all financial in,etitotiow,
(December INS).
- Comp,loory i96l_nXttotie of
*.toemal euditing foe  li
financial institution  (Dce_rI
1966).
-  ted to per to oewuity              -  Draft L1  aboitted to Coeng              -  Approval ot LA.                          -  5.*tm&     19.
financing en new                      to strengthen the operation af
vve.tmnt.a.                          gee.citi-  eurket-
SWft
U'



- 50 -
^  LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT         ANNEX V
W V                                               Page 1 of 10
Sen Jose. Costa Aioe
February 26. 1906
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C. 20433
DOeer Mr. Conable:
1.   In  the  late 1970s,  the Costa Rican economy was  seriously
affected   by   external  shocks  including  a   significant
deterioration   in   the  terms  of  trade,   a  sharp  rise   in
international interest rates, and growing political and economic
difficulties  in  the  rest  of  Central  America.    Costa  Rica
responded to these shocks by expanding heavily its external
borrowing on commercial terms.   The failure to make the required
domestic  adjustments   in  the  face  of  a  worsening  external
enviromment,  led  to  major financial difficulties  and  a  deep
recession.   By  1982.  real  per capita income hau decreased  by
about 20 percent from its 1979 level, unemployment stood at 10
percent. inflation reached a high of almost 90 percent. and the
country's debt service climbed sharply, forcing a suspension of
payments to commercial creditors.
2.   To deal with the rapidly deteriorating economic   situation,
the administration of President Monge. inaugurated in May
1982, defined a stabilization end recovery program whose major
goals  were control of inflationary   pressures,  restoration  of
balance  of  paymonts equilibrium,  and imprtvement of  relations
with the country's foreign creditors. The program, which counted
with IMF and World Bank support during 1983-1985, successfully
attained several objectives:
i)   GDP decline was ieversed,
II)  tho rate of inflation was sharply reduced,
iii) public sector finances were strengthened through both
expenditure and revenue measures;
iv)  a unified flexible exchange rate regime was established,
v)   the current account of the balance of payments improved, and
vi)  the  public  external debt with  bilateral  and  commercial
c.editors was rescheduled.



51                     ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
3.   Despite the program's success,  the recovery was fragile and
the country's external position remained weak owing to poor
export   performance  and  the  hoavy  service  payments  on  the
country's  external  debt.   Indeed,  by end  19865   the  current
account deficit of the balance of payments rose again to 6
percent of GDP and Costa Rica was unable to fully comply with its
stabilization and adjustment programs. GDP growth fell to only 1
percent and as of December 1986 accumulated arrears on external
debt mounted to US$32 million.
4.   When the present Administration took office,  in  May  1986.
*the  short-term stabilization program was strengthened  with
measures designed to further reduce the consolidated deficit of
the public sector, a monetary program oriented to contain
inflationary pressures. and an exchange rate policy aimed at
attaining external payments balance. In 1987 a decision was made
t-) deepen  the  adjustment  process  by  addressing  the   major
structural rigidities in the Costa Rican economy. Accordingly,
the Government's current economic program contains policy reforms
in the areas of trade, public finance, financial management
and agricultural pricing, in order to secure a sustainable
recovery of the economy and a stronger external position led by
private sector export-oriented activities.
5.   As  you are aware#  the country's stabilization program  was
given concrete form in a Stand-by agreement with the IMF
signed in October 1987. The Government of Costa Rica would like
to obtain World Bank support for the impiementation of policy
reforms  in  the  trade,   public  sector  management,  financial
intermediation,  and agricultural pricing areas.   We, therefore.
hereby request a second SAL for a three-year period in an amount
of USS100 million.   The major elements of the program,  together
with operational guidelines for its implementation, are briefly
described below and succinctly presented In matrix form in the
attached annex.
A.   The Export Sector, Industrialization, and Trade Policios
6.   With  its  narrow resource base and small  domestic  market.
Costa Rica remains crucially dependent on external trade as
its  primary vehicle for long-term sustainable  growth.   Foreign
trade has played an important role in the development of both
the agricultural and manufacturing sectors of the economy. Until
the late 70s, export earnings were highly concentrated in a few



g ~~~~~~- 5 2 - NXV
ANN1PX V
Page 3 of 10
agricultural    products  Cbananas,   coffee)  and  a  number   of
manufactured exports to the Central American Common Market
CCACM).   The  adjustment process so far has brought  significant
changes:   agricultural    exports  have  expanded  beyond  a  few
commodities and manufacturing exports to non-CACM markets have
grown substantially.
7.   To  further increase the country's foreign exchange earnings
by expanding exports of non-traditional products, especially
to markets outside the CACM, our economic progrtm will stress
export promotion and trade adjustment measures in five principal
areas. the exchange rate, the tariff regime, export taxation,
export promotion and quantitative import restrictions.
8.   Exchanae Rate Policy.  Since 1986, the Colon/US Dollar rate
has been depreciated in real terms by almost 17 percent.   A
key  element  of  the  1988-1990 economic  program  will  be  the
maintainance of a unified and flexible exchange rate system. The
value of the Colon will be adjusted from time to time to reflect
developments    in   the  balance  of   payments   and    inflation
differentials between Costa Rica and its major trading partners.
To carry out this policy, within the agreement with the IMF. the
Central   Bank  has  established  a  monitoring  system   whereby
quarterly targets for net international reserves have been
set. These targets incorporate seasonal factors, the anticipated
schedule of disbursements of foreign assistance, and the expected
rescheduling  of  existing debt.   If circumstances  require  It,
further devaluations will take place.
9.   Tariff  Regime.   In   1986,  under   the  first  str,ctural
adjustment program, a new tariff regime became effective.
It   reduced  tariffs  on  regionally  produced  consumer  goods,
eliminated surcharges on final consumer goods, and imposed
surcharges on intermediate  and capital goods.   In October 198?.
the Government made a further 10% tariff reduction on consumer
goods, reduced surcharges on intermediate inputs by 2 percent,
and lowered tariffs on capital goods by 10 percentage points.
10.  In order to further decrease regional market bias and foster
non-traditional exports, the Government intends to reduce
even  more  the  level and dispersion of the rates  of  effective
protection, preferably in coordination with other members of the
CACM. The proposed tariff reform would reduce the maximum tariff
ceiling on consumer goods to 40 percent, and to a range of 5-20
percent on imports of intermediate and capital goods, depending
on  whether  they  are  locally  produced  or  not.   Tariffs  on
essential goods Cmedicines, books) will remain at one percent,



- 53 -                 ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
and  tariffs on a few luxury Items not produced In the CACM  will
remain  over the 40 percent limit for fiscal reasons.   A list of
these exceptions is included in en Annex to this letter.
11.  Implementation  of the tariff reform will be gradual over  a
three-year perlod, In order to provide sufficient adjustment
time for existing domestic producers. The reform will proceed by
implementing six equal semi-annual reductions until the maximum
of  40 percent is attained.   Because of the prevalence of  small
producers, the adjustment to the 40 percent maximum tariff in the
shoe, apparel, and textile industries will be effected in 10
equal  semi-annual adjustments.   This tariff reform program will
be presented for the consideration of Costa Rica's Legislative
Assembly in conjunction with the SAL H agreement.
12.  Export Taxes.   During 1983-1986,  taxes on non-traditional
exports to markets outside the CACM were eliminated, and
the  tax on the exchange rate differential was phased out.           In
October 1987? because of balance of payments difficulties, the
Gover-nment  raised  from  10 to 50 percent  the  advance  deposit
required for the authorization of foreign exchange for imports.
As of April 1, 1988, the Government will gradually lower this
deposit  in  equal  quarterly cuts to a level of  10  percent  by
December 31, 1989.
13.  Export Incentive System.  The Government will complement the
trade reform by putting into operation a comprehensive
export incentive scheme consistent with Costa Rica's accesion to
the  GATT.   This  new scheme contains exemptions on  duties  for
imported inputs and sales tax reimbursements on domestic inputs
used in the production of non-traditional exports, as well as a
coherent package of benefits to exporters,   including simplified
export procedures and preferential access to public services.
These benefits will also be extended to indirect exporters, i.e.
local   suppliers  of  inputs  incorporated  in   non-traditional
exports.   Tax  Rebate  Certificates  (CATs)  provided  to   hon-
traditional exports under the current regime will be eliminated;
however, those exporters currently benefitting from the CAT will
retain it for the duration of their Export Contract. Appropriate
regulations discussed with World Bank staff will be issued
following  approval  by  the Legislative Assembly ot the  SAL  II
agreement.
14.  Costa  Rica already has an institutional framework for  the
promotion of exports and investments, which will complement
the adjustment measures presented above.   To further  streamline
export procedures a simplified system (ventanilia anica) will  be
in  operation by March 31,  198.   Efforts are also under way to
improve air cargo operations.



- 54 -                 ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
1I.  Quantitative Restletions.    In order to promote  efficient
Import   substitution   as  well  as   export   growth   and
diversification,  quantitative  restrictions on imports  will  be
kept to a minimum. There will be no quantitative restrictions on
Industrial products.   Existing quotas on sugar will be  replaced
by  a  40% tariff within the general   tariff  structure.   Import
requirements of basic grains to satisfy domestic demand will be
determined by CNP and the corresponding licenses allocated among
private traders.   in addition,  domestic prices of basic  grains
will be gradually adjusted. so as to reduce their differential
vis-a-vis international prices.
B.   Financial System Reforms
16.  To  foster  domestic  savings,  the Government   intends  to
maintain minimum interest rates on deposits above expected
inflation,  and in line with Interest  rates in the International
markets.   Government bond rates will be linked to the basic rate
and kept competitive with other domestic financial instruments.
Credit made available by the State Commercial Banks at rates
below their resource cost will be limited to the nominal amount
existing on December 31, 1986. In response to seasonal elements,
this level could increase, by up to five percent above this
ceiling. Credits made available through foreign grants and loans
will not be colinted against this limit.
17.  At present, loan rate setting by the banking system is free.
This practice will be maintained. The preforential interest
rates on loans to the agricultural sector approved under the
FODEA law of May 1, 1987, cover only a small fraction of
credit  to the private sector.   These rates will not be  further
renegotiated. As domestic inflation is curbed, they will tend to
become positive in real terms.   To avoid further distortions  in
the allocation of credit, the Government will not promote any new
generalized debt-rescheduling program with subsidized credit
liness future debt renegotiations will proceed on a case-by-case
commercial basis.
18.  It  has been the policy of this administration to   support
the social development of the neediest sectors of the
economy.   Preferential   credit  for  small farmers  has  been  a
trademark  of  our social policy.   We will  continue  with  this
practice.    However,  the  Government  realizes that  subsidized
credit might create distortions that'should be avoided.   To this
end, yearly budget allocations will be made to the Ministry *of
Agriculture  in  order  to finance  the  difference  between  the
market Interest rate and the rate charged to small farmers and



- 55 -                 ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
cattle   raisers.   The  sum  budgeted  to  cover  the   interest
differential for cattle development will not exceed 080 million a
year and the amount of subsidized credit for basic grains will
not exceed that outstanding on Docember 31, 1986.
10.  Adequate  supervision and  control of financial   intermedia-
ries is one of the Government s major concerns.   To improve
the system's transparency and to strengthen the Government's
ability to deal with irregularities in the functioning of
financial institutions, the Central Bank has issued regulations
requiring the establishment of reserves against certain non-
performing loans. By end 1987, the Government proposed to the
Logislative    Assembly    additional    legislation   aimed    at
strengthening the authority of the Superintendency of Banks
(Auditorla   General  de  Bancos)  imposing  penalty  charges  on
arrears,   and   increasing  control  over   non-bank   financial
intermediaries.   Such  legislation will become effective  before
presentation   of  SAL  11  documentation  to  the  World  Bank's
Executive  Directors.   Upon  approval of this  legislation,  the
Superintendency  of Banks will issue regulations restricting  the
operation of foreign chartered institutions and requiring all
financial agents to publish balance sheets and income statements
and establish external audits.
20.  To promote the orderly development of the securities market,
legislation creating the Securities Exchange Commission has
recently   been  submittted  to the  Legislative  Assembly.  Only
institutions registered and approved by the Commission or the
Superintendency of Banks will be entitled to issue and trade
securities in the Stock Exchange CBoisa Nacional de Valores) of
Costa Rica.
21.  The  existing  spread  between  deposit  and  lending  rates
in the financial system is a cause of major concern for the
Government.   This spread  is hampering the productive efforts of
the  economy  and  tends to curtail  productive  investment.   To
improve the operational efficiency of the state banks, thereby
reducing the cost of financial intermediation, the Government has
prepared a program that provides for the reduction of overdue
loan portfolio over a 3-year period and the implementation of
sound financial practices in the state banks.   Loans overdue  by
more than 180 days will be reduced to 5 percent of the state
banks' portfolio by December 31, 19881 to 3 percent by December
31,  1989, and eliminated by December 31, 1990.   The practice of
registering as income accrued interest on loans overdue by more
than 180 days will be eliminated and penalty rates will be
charged on all overdue loans, upon effectiveness of the SAL
agreement



GZ  - 56~ -ANNE% V
Rage 7 of 10
C.   Improved Managemoat of the Publio Sootor
22.   The present administration Is cowmitted to increase  public
savings,    improve   the   cost-effectiveness   of  public
investment,  sad  reduoe the site of the  parsttal  sector.   A
major element of the Governmont's adjustment program is to
Increase savings of the Cointral Government and the 16 largest
public Institutions from 8.1 percent of ODP In 191?, to 5.7
percent in 1988, 6.2 percent in 1909, and 6.6 percent in 1990.
This adjustment is to be achieved through a combination of
revonue   and  expenditure  measures.   To  allow  for   possible
fluctuations due to transitional and conjunctural movements of
public income and expenditure, we propose the following criteria
to monitor compliance with the targets.   In 1988, public savings
will be no  less than 5.r percent of GDP.  The unweighted average
of savings ratios for 1986 and 1989 will be at least 6 percent of
GDP.   The average of savings ratios for 1988, 1989 and 1990 will
be no less than 6.2 percent of GOP.
23.  On  the  revenue  side,  a  tax  package  approved  by  the
Lcg;&Iative Aasembiy in December ivi7 is expected to raise
additional  revenue roughly equivalont to 1.3 percent of GDP   in
1988,  and to 1.? percent of GDP in 1989 and 1990.   The  package
included  inrre:-es  :n property taxes   and s broadening of  the
coverage of the sales tax. In addition, a reform aimed at
simplifying the current income tax system has been submitted for
consideration to the Legislative Assembly.
24.   The  Ministry of Finance is also undertaking a major effort
to improve tax collection by administrative reforms, such
as   data  gathering  on  tax  liabilities  of  individuals   and
corporations and the development of a computerized tax registry,
which should be fully operational by december 1989. USAID and IDB
are providing technical assistance to these efforts.
25.   The financial position of state enterprises as a whole will
remcin at least in equilibrium.    To this end, electricity
and water rates, as well as public transportation fares, will
continue to be adjusted to reflect wage, exchange rate, and other
cost  adjustments  necessary  to  cover  operating  costs,   debt
servicing, and a share of invostment *xpenditures for the
expansion and improvement of services.



A-s,-                  sANNEX V
jw~o 8 f 10
26.  The  Government will gradually eliminate the  subsidies  to
cover INCOFER's current expenditures by 1989, and will
eliminate RECOPE's transfers for non-related operations of the
state enterprise by limiting them to C100 mililion in 1988,
betfore totally eliminating them by 1969. RECOPE will continue to
pay a 12% tax on salos of oil products.
27.  The  government believes that reductions in earmarking  and
compulsory spending are desirable elements of the adjustment
program.   The  Government  has  already  reduced  the  ratio  of
earmarking  and  compulsory spending over total  expenditures  as
part of its rationalization  process in the past two  years.   It
will not propose now earmarkings and will try to reduce the ratio
of  earmarked  to  total  revenues from its 1987  level.
28.   The Government has carefully reviewed the Public Investmen+
Program   for  1988-1990   to  ensure  that  new   projects
adequately  contribute to the   adjustment  process.   Particular
mnh o  wai nivaIv   tn investmentsft in sutnDort of acricultural and
industrial activities of the private sector and the adequate
provision  of social services.   Non-essential  investments in the
telecomunications sector have been postponed. Also, a number of
RECOPE's investment projects have been deferred until economic
conditions warrant them. To ensure that the level of investment
is   compatible  with  available  financial    resources,    public
investment  will be limited to 6.8 percent of GDP.   The  revised
program and financing requirements are given in detail in an
Annex attached to this letter.
29.  Finally,    the  Government  will  continue  the  process  of
divestiture of subsidiaries of the state-owned development
corporation CCODESA) according to the program presented to World
Bank staff.   Since 1986, several of those subsidiaries have been
either sold, closed down, or reallocated within the public
sector.   Of  the  remaining  enterprises some will  be  sold  to
cooperatives and other workers'organizations.
D.  Agricultural Pricing PolIcies
30.  The  agricultural   sector  has  considerable  potential   for
expanding  exports and employment.   Increased  agricultural
production  and  productivity  are  important  elements  of   the



- 58 -                 ANNEX V
rA~ge 9 of 10
adjustment  program.  The   measures will focus on expanding  the
production of non-traditional exports. increasing the efficiency
in the production of basic grains. fostering the continued growth
of traditional *xports, and rationalizing the activities and
finances of CNP.
31.  CNP's  role  in the commercialization of  basic grains  will
be substantially modified.   There *hall be no  quantitative
restrictions on the export of basic grains by private traders.
Private sector firms will be granted licenses by CNP to import
corn and beans. To avoid rent profits, the Ministry of Finance
will collect as tax the difference between the international and
the  domestic price,  expressed in current US  Dollars.   In  the
internal   market,   CNP   has   already   withdrawn   from   the
cormmercialization of rice and sorghum.   In the future,  it  will
limit its activities in the commercialization of basic grains to
purchases of corn and beans from small farmers according to a
program agreed with World Bank staff and included in the Annex.
As of crop year 1989, CNP will charge private firms fcr its costs
of intermediation.
32.  As  a  result of the price support policy of  recent  years,
together with the practice of passing on to consumers only
part of the cost of subsidies granted to agricultural producers,
CNP h-s been recording deficits of about 1i2 percent of GOP
per  year.   By  keeping  constant in nominal terms  the  support
prices for beans and corn during 1987, CNP reduced its projected
losses for that fiscal year from el.379 million to e837 million.
The difference between domestic producer and consumer prices for
all basic grains has been eliminated. In the case of yellow corn,
this was done in January 1988, two years ahead of the date agreed
upon with World Bank staff.
33.  To reduce and eventually eliminate distortions caused by the
support  pricing  policy,  guaranteed  producer  prices  for
beans,  rice,  and corn will convorge to a ratio of 1.4 times the
5-year average of international prices by 1990.  The calendar for
the  implementation of these price convergences is given  in  the
matrix presented in the annex.   The price of yellow corn will be
adjusted in the same fashion as the price of white corn.



- 59 -                 ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
34.  To  attain  stable  and  sustainable  oconomic  growth. is  a
difficult task.   The Govornment of Costa Rice believes that
the measures contained on Its l9SS-1990 economic program are
significant  steps towards this and.   The support the World Bank
may provid-dirootly. and indirectly through its assistance to
obtain additional resources, is essential to the success of this
program. We trust that together we will build the path that will
lead Costa Rice to economic growth within a framework of poace
and democracy.
Jorge Manuel Dengo 0.
First Vicepresident of the Republic
Fernando Naranjo V.                            Otton Solis F.
Minister of Finance                            Minister of Planning and
Economic Policy.



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Letter of Development
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 10
1.   MAJOR ELEMENTS OF THE PROGRAM AND OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES



SISTE1^A BE C9"ECID                                                                                                                                                   21YJID
Enunciado de Politica                           Cranograa                               Acciones Institucionales                 Legislacibn y tireate              Reposble
Coqplewntarnas
Se reducirl el gravaye                  Al 01/10/87:                                   Negociaci6n con Centroasrica            Dcreto pa  raduccin inicial           Ilt/Ill
total uniforfaidolo dentro              Reduccion de 101 del arancel sobre             Comatibiltiar con plante.-              Proyacto de lay de urnil.
de ibganes de 401 y St,                 aquellas partidas que excedan 40D               mento de acceso al GATT.               Legislaci  antiduping
con  u techo de 20t  para Ios           y reduccifn de 23 de sobretasas                                                        y de subsidios ctwestwias
insues y bienes de capital,             sDbre insufs y de 10Q  sabre                                                           consultada con el kg.  nwial.
y un piso de SL.                        bienes de capital. 6 ajustes se-
Se excluyen arancels fis-               wstrales de 1/6 del exceco
calas, (baenas de consuw                del tacho arancelariu  sobre Ins
no Eowtlttvosl y gravime-                lsites acordados a partir del
nos afre bienas astratb-                30/i6/9.
gicos (edicinas, librosl.               En eI casO de raMs de calzado
textiles y conficcon, los
ajustes seasstrales serAn de
1/10 do la dferancia durante
10 sostres.
El justa en el piso erA
de la siguiente forea: el 31/12/A
so elijinarh la sabretasa de Z7 sobre
bianes de capital; el 31/12/89 ci
gravatn total, incluyendo un arancel
de 5, se disainuiri al 6?; el
311121W) el gra ena   total se dis-
einuirJ al S.                                                                                                                                            a
2. El Bnxo tintral de Costa Rica            Politic& en vigencia.                                                                                                           M
continuarh aplicando ua polt-           A partir de 4/U se redurirIn trtws-
tiic  cabiaria flexible, para           tralsante en foria proporcional
mantentr Ia coqpetitividad              unifrae, los dep6sutos pianos
de las expartacios costa-               a las iqportacimis, para llegar
rricanas, asegurar el eui-              a un 10  el 31"!2u29.
librio externo y e1 eipo
intern.
3. El sistea  do ucentivos a la                a partir de la ratificacion                  Disao de Is etodologla par            tuva Ley de iKwtivos a In            IIUIEIAU
exportacibn incluiri los siguim-           del Cavenio Sal 11.                           a aplicacibn del nueva cm-            Expwrtacimns.
tie baificios:                              Racionalizacibn del Sisteaa                  trato d  exportacion y d le
a. Exenciin de dichs aruancelarios         de incentivos segAn pro-                     certificado d*  raintegro tri-
a los inns  par   eipetacin.            pueita MIIII  del 19/9/97                    butaria (corficuentes tWcMi-
b. Earwrcir n deI pap  de iqmitos                                                       cos, Frjcim de rafmia, do-
do ventas y consi   sebre inses                                                       tarainacdin del smto de sub-
nacianalfs incorporado. n- praduc-                                                   sidios coavutorios, aspic-
to  de exportaci6n.                                                                   tos instituciaeala).
c. Ssidias copa  atorios pr carga                                                        CDordinar con hEIC, S, y
cumtific*bla: tarina portuuus,                                                       INII  progra  de incmtivas
cflustibiia, ilictricidad.                                                            a  a inviin y prodiri6a.
Todo inortador d  pricts no tra-
dicimlis a tacr         rcados podrJ
sqrte ai  -e _n"s. Lass-
prm   con cmta          de MamutactOn
a L4 dda a hd       e   it SR vtgata
el -   _  6 ia aive pdin
aptar Pr emnt_ centrotec
byab pW vu   - dt  emIrte
gala a  vuncisiuta 0 acW
di wo      q w 



SISTEMA DE COfRCIO                                                                                                                                         21J9J87
Enunciado de Politica                       Cracograua                           kcciones Institucionales               Legislacibn y Decrelts          kyadnla,
Coampleuentitrias
4. Se establecerh un sisteua de            Apertura 12/57.                          Coordinacibn In:er-                  Decreto Ejecutivo                NMiVI3I
ventanilla Inica para trMites                                                    institucional
de eupartaci&n.
5. Plan para incrementar la                En ejecucibn                             Enviar documenticidn sobre:                                           NlIEMOPT
coqptencia en el transporte                                                      designaciin d  iin represen-
de caga de prodLctos de                                                           tante de la eqp"esa privada
exrortacibn a efecto de regula-                                                  en la Junta de Iviaci6n Civil;
rizar el t - s.to y reducir las                                                  convenios suscritos can herijet
tarifas.                                                                         Belize Air y Chillenge, y acon-
dicionamiento de un avi6n
de LACSA para carga.
01



ETW m0EDO                                                                     2tnS1/9
Enunciado de Politica                        Cronogra                           cciones Institurianals               Logislacik y _rite                     hwm.l1
Coeplementarias
1. Elevar la eficmincia en la                Tanto los precios de refe-          Segfo  wtodologIa de con-                                                    ItW
produccion, consu   y coin-               rmncla anternmconales co            vergmncia preenta   el
cializacibn de Ios produttos               los precios al productor se        19-9-8  par el IP.
larroz, frijol, mali y                    fijirhn al comieona de cada
arkear), a trevns de ui                   dio agricola y regirJn du-
sistm  de precios                         rante este Jl. El di4eren-
jim canverian gradualunte                 cial entre estos dos proc is
hacia pricios de referwicia               se reduciri do acuerdo al
intrnacionalos.                           siguiente calendaria:
El factor de convrgencia sor4
de 1.2 en *alz mrillo y de                IAIZ M0ILLO:
1.4 en las otros productos.               19OB: precio no mial constante
al productor y auinto
de tl00 a] canswidor indus-
trial.
1989: canvergoncia a 1.4 en
el precwo al productor
y aanto de tIOf al consu-
eidor industrial.
1990: convergoncia a 1.3 en
el pr cio al productor y
consuidor industrial.
FRIJ:                                                                                                                                        W
19U: convergencia a 1.5 en
el precin interno.
1989. convergncia a 1.45
en el precio interno.
199: convergencia a L.4 on
el precio interno.
Canvorgencia a 1.4 en e1 lI I
precto intemnr.                                                                                                                      ,4     b
Se ajustari el arancel en
el perlodo 199-199  de
acuerdG a la refo,ea aan-
celaria global, a un nivel
de 40l maximo.
AZ  IACO:
19088 precio rlinal cens-
tante.
19989 convergencia a 1.5 en
el pfreco interno.
190: convergencia a 1.4 or
el precio interno.



Ebcia'J d hBitka                           Mkion 1Wtw1imIn                                     Lqlislmlb y I3
2. 8 cm  de his. fItmmm              A *P  d cudmu I_r.                                       blb        Lay alP.
* pw*ta, d ONP is-                La tula u wutvaIwmt  WA
WA la p_tin curn           rl a*6 Pr 1 Uiaist.rio
puotm  Al mtce  privaim           a Iltg.
pus iqw to In cutiduin
l rd   a pu gervtiWa
cocdiaa ds_e In
les pscie v        11 -
1. El     l or i ow As                                                                         bU.1    Ly.                       U
ciscimll delm  t 
pe--  u_
I1  I ltl mu e                                                                                                                                        g
ytisit peoi r lump-
Clielis SI prist
4. Fcilitar la aini                   MIttis. a  igucia.                                       3.rf_ uirm& a
Ikaic. & pr SI a-                                                                           ptlkcAI pri
tor privaim. 



SECTOP FINANCIERO                                                                                                                                                   21/9)97
Enwnriado de Poliltica                        Cronograna                                        Legislacion y Decretos                                          ks-4msable
1. El Poder Ejecutivo se conprowete            Politica en vigencia                                                                                                  Presidncia
a no aprobar leyes o e itir de-              (Carta de politica).
cretos que i pliquEn adecuaciones
generalizadas de deuda con los
bancos del Estado. Cuando la si-
tuacidn especifica de un deudor
justifique una readecuaci6n, esta
se debera hacer sabre una base
de caso por caso, en la que in-
tervengan exclusivamente el acree-
dor y deudor involucrados.
2. Prograsa de reduccion de c- tera            La cartera vencida por                               kuerr3o Junta Directiva                                             ICR
vencida (incluyendo principal e             #as de 180 dlas no exce-.                            DCCR e instructivo por
interesesl via cobranza o casti-            dern  el 10% del total                               parte de la A6B.
gos contra provisiones, reservas            de la cartera al 31-12-B7,
o capital para periodo 1987-89.             al 51 al 31-12-88, al
35. al 31-12-89, y a 0n al
31-12-90.
3. Eliminar la practica de registrar           Para nuevas colocaciones:                            kuerdo Junta Directiva                                            ICIR
coao producto financiero intereses          a par tir fecha aproba-                              BCCR siempre que la
devengados pero no cobrados sobre           cion SAL.                                            nueva Iry lo pereita.                                                                             0
crkditas vencidos por oas de 160            Para cartera existente:
dias.                                       rige prograla de reduc-                              Revisar proyecto de ley
ciin de cartera vencida.                            que se ref iere a cre-
ditos vencidos par oAs
de 360 dlias-.
4. Cobrar intereses moratorios                 A partir fecha aproba-                               Presentar proyecto de ley                                          BCIR
por creditos vencidos.                      ciOn SL.         -                                   modficando arttcu!o 49B
del Codigo de Comercio.
0
o-U
ot



SECTOR FINPNCIERFO                                                                                                                                                   21/9187
Enuncoado de Politica                          Cronograma                                        Legislacitn y Decretos                                          Responsable
5. Se man.endran los saldos pendien-           Poltxica vigente.
tes de cred:to subsidiado para
la agricLItura e industria
(definido para estos efectos co-
so credito que es otorgado por
bancos estatales a tasas de in-
terts menores que la tasa para
depositas a 6 aeses de cada ban-
co) a niveles no aayores que el
nivel del cr6dito pendien-
te al 31 dic. 1986, o por
5.354 millones de colanes,
y que no sobrepase ese nivel
en ams del 51 en una base
puramente estacional.
Se exceptuarA el credito a
tasas subsidiadas con recursos
externos incluyendo sus fondos
de contrapartida originados en
el presupuesto fiscal y el
oto-9ado con las recperaciones
de estos programas.
El subsidio al crtdito en el
sector agIlcola estarA lisi-
tado solc a los pequehos agri-
cultores, seg&n definicidn del
BCCR, y serA financiado direc-
tamente con e; presupuesto del
Ifinisterio de Agricultura. Los
montos aprobados para pequehos
agricultores que produzran gra-
nr. basicEs no eucederin al
rivel de dicieebte 31, 1985.
6. Con el fin de fortalecer la su-
pcrvisihn y transparencia de las                                                                                                                                                        eoft
entidades financieras, se adopta-                                                                                                                                                       * n o
rAn las siguientes medidas:                                                                                                                                                                I        o
a) RefDrea de la ley que                     A partir Jecha apreta-                               Ley                                                                                   -t
rige la A6B otorgandole poderes              cion SAL.                                            La Contralorla solo debe
suficientes para iponer san-                                                                      hacer control de legalidad
ciones econ6uicas y disciplina-                                                                   y no de m6rito del presu-
rias, facultades para intervenir                                                                  puesto de la AGB. El con-
directamente instituciones que                                                                    control de ebrito lo debe
suestren problemas de solvencia                                                                   hacer la Junta Directiva
financiera y mayor autanoela pre-                                                                 del Banco Central de
supuestaria.                                                                                      Costa Rica.



SECTOR FINWNCIERO                                                                                                                                                    21/9/97
Enunciado de Polltica                          Cronograma                                        Legislacion y Decretos                                          Resonsable
b) Cbligatoriedad de auditorlas              A partir fecha aproba-                               Acuerdo Junta DirKtiva                                           Dm;
externas de los balances y cuen-             cion SAL.                                            y Ley (para bance. pri-
tas de resultados de las entida-                                                                  vados).
des pdblicas y privadas.
cl Reforea legal que restrinja               A partir fecha apraba-                               kuerdo Junta Directiva                                           ICOt
el funcionaaiento de las entida-             citn SAL.                                            BIcYR para el caso tle
des financieras no reguladas                                                                      subsidiarizs panamtas
(incluyendo las subsidiari                                                                        a mes tardar al 31-)5-9B.
panamads).
d) Obligacizn para todas las                 A partir fecha aproba-                               Ley y Resolucio                                                  -A6B
entidades financieras de publi-              citn SAL.                                            A6B
car sus balances y cuentas de
resultados en peri6dicos de cir-
culacibn nacional (la AGB tambien
incluira los balances y cuentas
de resultados de cada entidad fi-
nanciera en su publicaci6n tri-
mstral).
En el caso de las sociedades
financieras, 'a publicacitn
se har& en la publicacion
triuestral de la AGB.
7. Creacidn de la   aicim- u2cional             A partir fecha aproba-                               Ley                                                              CO
de Valores.                                  cihn SAL.
01 



FtIMa    PIftCAS                                                                                                                         21/9117
Enunciado de Poltics                        Creqr_                  Acaaih, inatItawtieonta          Lislascian 1y hcrwtos                %u *1o
Cmsntarin
1. 1  inviltn pbuica n                   Al 31110/U   dui'nirs rl                                                                           WI!WilKMI
Wl pilado 1-9D no wr                  Prqar Vacieal de Invir-
ayor dei 41.5  del PIS                 Slme, cuya  4todlqol y
criterices wh  acoredao can
So aijcutar de Cuif*  s                l Sxeo dldn. Ataaaim,
[as pri3ridedie estabIKidas           el prqro m gI bal w  'muasarb
in rl Pel gram  lcinal de             anualate can eI 3'co.
Invirsi i .
2. El sho. del sator                     Las fim:na pMI cn m adi -NK
pdlico no Jjnaci.ro                   Cuarbn nwlete f la el
!gOaMo central y Is                   IWo  de las agulptis ntu:
anotituclawin  so mncre-              iq: 5. 12
mnt&rl ySilMtG  Wet                   191 5. 72
alcenar un 4.52 del Pis                190: L 2t
gi 19O.                                2990  4.52
3. Criacian di 4s Fond de                Cncepto y mtodologla a ii
Estabilizacibt dil Caft                discutido pr,.amWtt can
par skfiz  e ii KtO                  ci ctoel  nco   d al.                                                                                                                                   3
4tecal de 1as w4riaclnems
on los tIirsil di intmr-
4. Nb "  ariarb "V                       A pata  del 3019117                                                                                              la 4 IaaU
iislcian qu  asm9w dms-
tiwo a lo, irgmios
El~an iaitilmmU-
tarios.
5. Prm  di rmfo4r  tri-                   A partir de la ratific;c16n
butwia  Wiu  rniqada Inm               del Ctnvw                                                                                           MTJ RINK
nKcnida        dil prxci   de          Aprbscatn dil Pmoyicto de
ajusti metmActural.                   hAiuse tiTbuttario y de Is
Askoa * I I punto stbre
a Ponts (prsontadom a Is
*                           1@@~~~~~~was togislativ^^.C 
6. El Saieo continuarm                   Pcltics vimntu.                                                                                      MEIC/i l
cw  *I prram ntablcdo
do rconalizcidon di



FIIWAPS PULICAS                                                                                                                          21//3
Enunciado de Polltica                        Cranograma              kciones Institucimnales          Legislaci6n y Decretos                dhupts"Ahi
Coqpldntarias
7. Elisinar las transhrmncias            El eanto uixiso d  transfirwncia                              Ley de Presupuesto                     IN hlUE
para qastos corrientus aI             s  rducirt de acuardo aI si-
INCOFER.                              guiente ptn:
El equilibrio in eI flujo              197: i435 millies
de caja del ferracarril no             199: t15 millones
se lograrh udiante un au-             1S9: no habri
wnto an las tarifas realns,            1990: no habr&
sino par reduccioms  n *I
costo de qperacion y anutos
en el volumn de carga.
9. Se eliminar n las trmnsie-            199: tlO00 oillones     transfe-                              Ley de Prisuito                       N119I1K1 E
rencias de RMEE. S gra-                     ruicias s 122 iqmto de
varin con un iquuisto dol                   venta.
121 sabri las vmntas brutas           1999: 12t iqusto de vinta
de la aqresa.
o0



- 70 -
Pr.gram. Iaimnal de 1swgtegines publim  IWO-11e                 Letter  of  :evelc:-
* Cre  wI~IgegjeCesa,  ,    ?               -:ac.ren :
esf.. "  "*13"e 6, es,lts                   tt&e-. -4nt  
letter                                        TOTAL   tOtaL   tOItL   toTA4    I         PUIlCIPacieg JILAT IVA
Suustg 7t                                     90      139    1ne    I   I111    193            9 1     9 i9
I
1. gstepecuato                                     31112  3 n     s9.0  117 9  295 4  1 16 n         13  n 832    9*
g ; rceIa                         2)36.9  1064 6  808 I24 14 3  1   14., t    1.57    713    1
1.2             Ptgsus:t                            319.4   444.4  325 9   209.1  I    1 u4    25             1.2I     I 00
I
I I  Es_;... ludt .i.a I Cas tci                             M.  G0M  s 92.1   45    4124  I    I 13    I.49      12    I 3?
2.1             1i,ust^rial                                   21.0    200       30.0  1    000    0*4         01to    0 '
Z2.              Caetrcil                           172 S   845.7   377 0   2S5 0  1    0.93          I 2n     1 21    002
2 2             T~r,so                               54     17 0   21.5    114   I    0.30 0e09 0t 74    04e
1
3.0  Iccurses  aturalls. Inertia   N iats          4542 1  U427.3 10471 0 10173.6  1   35.10   334 2   2S 72   32 27
3               I scurusNeI utrees                  225.8    720   2344    82 03   I    I t7    0 27           1 14   0o7'
3.3 te rgtics                                      6206 3  6534.1 10144 2  1932.1  I   33  4   22.15   34 41    32 '
I
5.0   r,.nspa,te y Camuniceczenss                  4185 2  5113 3  9600 2 11994 0  I   26 21   29 41   32 72   33 76
S.1             trenttorte                         3222 *  393 n  6  5121 1  8147 7  I   17 29    17 21   11 14   2  33
1.2             Coalmiccisoes                      1622 3  2411.7  3779 1  2840.3  I    02 18  87   12 is   12 44
7 0  Servac&n agbeoraaentales                       110 1    333 6   3221    242 I  I    0 59    1 79          1 1     0 71
1
3 .   Salud                                        312 0  3161 0  3984.9  314  S  I   13 04   14 13   11 3             0 io1
9 0  IducaC1O6  y rIcutlse  Musans                   102 4   167 1   419 S  1162 6  I    0 55    0  s1  I3 34          2
9.1             Iducuclot General                            101 2    45.0  9n1 7  1    0 00    0  1    03 22    3 0
13              Edtc aetCa   Supe rer                                  2810    02931   1    000    0 00    I II    066
93              ParasagtseZ  (isatiws               103.4    44.5    it1               I    0.55     0.34    010    I00
I
'3 0 Cuoncac y ?.cnholaga                            II       W 807.       91    63 0.1  1    0.04    1.44    2 39    2 IC
TOTAL PIOGI*.A DE IAVEIUIONII FoIkiUCAI            3420.3 1914164 29339 0230944 6  1  100-00   10000  IN.00  IN000
Dirgos16  de Imves   snoo. NIDtPLMN. X0-I-N



IBRD 17339
8f M            o      n      e     g     5o                   -                    \                               es 84-  1 UA                            AUGUST 1963
NICARAGUA    \                                                           HONDURAS_.-
li--                               ---- --e              ..0                            \                    113.]             NICARAGUA
Soot.~~ C,   _ 
COSTA RICA                                                                       1;_
PHYS ICAL CHARACTE RISTICS 
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oii o c                                                                           <8,, Lci
-   Pan American HighwayP'AA  A 
t  Selected  Roads                                                                                       t p .
,       Railroads                       _       Elevations in metters.                                    PieCorrejs
Rivers                           _    0 3000o                                         i       ..        ,       -                    dc ePA N  .
Provincial Capitals                   i           0                                                                                        i G
o      Cities and Towns                                                                                                               -   
-.-  Provincial Boundaries                                                                                       -                                T    o Pon,omo, Cdy
- -    International Boundaries                                                                                         i     / O
0          20          4,           6O M.i..        ~
                 50                 100 K~Iei..Dcri              )
7705 ,m,,ttas ben presparerJ by The Worlo fJr *a staff rxck,a,rety tor thHe csnr.HnlY.nce ot
8*                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the readers artcld esck,so Vtt for tire ste,al/ os6e ot Theb World Barnk ar,d 5,eR 5,tHernetonel  8<
Flvtncn CsrsiAtmocn The .ncnwat,ao   an d *th b r n   on an iN  rtot
on IthH legal stats ot any terrIby or any eorsem6frentCt or aCctae 5?sc  o.ae
86R                                      85                                         84                                       830                                      82
Nainl  Caia                             200                                                                                                      P A                  



