Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12952
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS I AND II
(LOANS 2518-CR and 3005-CR)
April 12, 1994
Country Operations Division 2
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Col6n (c)
US$1.0              =     c 136 (December 1992)
c 1.0               =     US$0.0074
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CACM         Central American Common Market
CAT          Tax Rebate Certificate (Certficado de Ahorro Tributario)
CET          Central American Common External Tariff
CNP          Agriculture Marketing Agency (Consejo Nacional de Produccion)
CODESA       State Holding Corporation (Corporaci6n Costarricense de Desarrollo)
EDL          Export Development Loan
ESL          Export Sector Loan
GATT         General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
IS           Industrialization through import substitution
IM           Initiating Memorandum
IMF          International Monetary Fund
OECF         Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR          Program Completion Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offloo of Director-General
Operation. Evaiua±on
April 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Progran Completion Report on Republic of Costa Rica -
Structural Adjustment Loans I and n (Loans 2518-CR and 300S-CR)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Republic of Costa Rica - Structural Adjustment
Loans I and II (Loans 2518-CR and 3005-CR). Parts I and mI were prepared by the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR provides a good and detailed account of the preparation and implementation of these
two SALs, and places it in the context of the highly gradual process of consensus-building in Costa Rica.
Seven years elapsed from Board approval of SAL I to completion of SAL II. Coordination with the IMF
was close throughout.
The main objective of the adjustment program, supported by the Bank SALs, was a fundamental
change in economic strategy by opening the economy to foreign competition, with emphasis on export-led
growth, and by reducing and redefining the role of the public sector. The action programs were wide-
ranging. SAL I covered tariff reforn, export promotion, government finances, including privatization
of state firms and reducing the losses of the state Agrizultural Marketing Agency, and debt management.
SAL II pursued further action in all of ihese areas while adding reforms iii agricultural pricing policies
and in banking.
Two themes stand out. First, the reform process encountered numerous delays and was much
slower than anticipated by the Bank. In the case of SAL I some of the conditionality was eventually
revised, while in the case of SAL II, two conditions on public finances had to be waived. The main
shortcoming for both SALs was in the public finance area, where the focus had been on aggregate targets,
such as public savings, rather than on the underlying causes of public sector inefficiency and fiscal
pressures. The latter are expected to be addressed in SAL III which has already been approved by the
Board. Second, the policy achievements in many areas, though delayed, have been substantial and there
have been no reversals in these cases. In terms of outcome, a striking development was the growth in
non-traditional exports. In the above perspective the SALs may be rated as marginally satisfactory. The
sustainability of the reform process, however, is uncertain pending fundamental solutions to the fiscal
problem. The institutional impact has been modest.
The SALs will be audited by OED with special attention to the sustainability issue and to the
reasons for Costa Rica's impressive export performance.
Attachment
|his doemmat ha a rted dsbutio ad may be usd by recipib only in the perfonue o dr offiaol dodo. Its
cont| t my wot odtwiu be diclosed witbout World Bank authorization.                    l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COM-LETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
SUCItURAL ADJlUSTMENT LOANS I AND II
(LOANS 2518CR and 3005-CR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .................................................                                                  i
EVALUATION  SUNNMM RY   .....................................    iii
Part I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                        ......   1
Program Identity . ..............................................   1
I. INTRODUCTION ...........................................   1
II. MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND  .............................                                                2
]II. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I ...........................                                              4
A. Loan Preparation .......................................                                       4
B. The Structural Adjustment Program   ...........................                                 7
a) Export Development and Trade Policy Reform  ..................                            7
b) Public Sector Reform   .................................                                  9
c) External Debt Management ..............................    11
d) Conditions for Second Tranche Release ......................   11
e) Bank Technical Support for the Structural Adjustment Program  ...               .....   12
C. Implementation and Results  ................................    12
a) Review of Second Tranche Conditionality-November 1985 ....                    .......   12
b) Progress to June 1986 and Second Tranche Release  ...............    13
c) Overall Performance  ...................................    15
IV. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II ..........................  18
A. The Period between SAL I and SAL II  .........................    18
B. Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program   .................    19
a) Trade Policy ........................................ 20
b) Public Finances  .        ....................................    20
c) Financial Intermediation  ..........               ......................    21
d) Agricultural Policy  .        ..................................    22
e) Second and Third Tranche Release Conditions  ..................    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.          l



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
C. Implementation and Results  ................................   23
a) Effectiveness .......................................    23
b) Compliance with Second Tranche Conditionality .................   23
c) Compliance with Third Tranche Conditionality  ..................   25
d) Overall Performance ..................................   27
V. RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNMENT STABILIZATION POLICIES
AND IMF  .            ..............................................    28
VI. EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM  AND BANK SUPPORT  ..............................   29
A. Overall Approach  ......................................    29
B. Major Program  Components ................................   30
C. Economic Performance ...................................   33
D. Government Ownership ...................................   33
E. The Bank's Performance  ..................................    35
F. Sustainability  .........................................    35
G. Main Findings and Lessons Learned ...........................   35
Part II: SUtMMARY PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE.....................37
A. Introduction .         .........................................    37
B. The Bank's Performance  ..................................   38
C. The Borrower's Performance  ...............................    39
D. The Relations between the Bank and the Borrower ..................   40
E. Performance and Relationship of OECF and the Borrower (SAL I1) ....                 ....   40
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................   41
Basic Data Sheet-SAL I ....................................   41
Basic Data Sheet-SAL II ...................................    42
Related Bank Loans .......................................    43
ANNEXES:
1:      Costa Rica: Key Macroeconomic Indicators  ........................   45
2:      SAL I: Matrix of Tranche Release Conditions and Actions Taken ....                  .......   47
3:      SAL II: Matrix of Tranche Release Conditions and Actions Taken  ....                 ......   55
ATTACHMEN
Program Review of SAL I and II Prepared by the Government of Costa Rica  ...    59



- i -
L~~~-I E
PROGuRAM CQNr1LETOEPOWRT
REUBLIC OF COSI RICA
(LOANS 2518-CR and 3005-CR)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL) I
and II (Loans 2518-CR and 3005-CR). SAL I in the amount equivalent to US$80.0 million was
approved by the Board on April 16, 1985 and SAL II in the amount equivalent to US$100.0 million
on December 13, 1988. The loan account for SAL I was closed on June 30, 1986, as scheduled in
the Loan Agreement and that for SAL II was closed on July 31, 1992 eighteen months behind
schedule. Both loans were fully disbursed.
The PCR (Parts I and III) was prepared by the Country Operations Division 2, Country
Department H, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II is a summary based
on the Borrower's comprehensive PCR and approved by the Borrower. The PCR was discussed with
the Borrower and there were no significant differences in views on the information and analysis
presented in the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alla, on the President's Reports, Loan Agreements,
relevant economic and sector documents, information in program files, and discussions with Bank
staff and Costa Rican officials.






- iii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS I AND II
(LOANS 2518-CR and 3005-CR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    In 1980-82, Costa Rica faced an economic and financial crisis without precedent since the
1930s resulting from structural weaknesses of an inward oriented strategy and extensive Government
interventions in the economy, as well as inappropriate macroeconomic management in response to
adverse external developments (see para. 3-5). Progress in social indicators decelerated and poverty
levels worsened, and public finance inflexibilities resulted in cuts in public spending in social sectors
from 23 to 14 percent of GDP. Fiscal deficits to GDP reached unprecedented levels resulting in
deteriorating balance of payments conditions, aggravated by sharp declines in terms of trade and
contraction of exports, especially to regional markets. External debt increased substantially to
fimance fiscal and balance of payments deficits. Eventually Costa Rica accumulated arrears on
external debt and, in August 1981, suspended most of its principal and interest payments to creditors
other than multinational institutions (see para. 5).
ii.   In December 1981 the Government failed for a third time, since March 1980, to reach a
lasting agreement with the IMF due to lack of corrective measures on public finances-which in turn
delayed Bank support. The new Administration, which took office in May 1982, undertook
corrective measures aimed at reducing fiscal deficits and resuming foreign public debt service
payments. Partial payments of interest on Costa Rica's commercial debt were resumed in July 1982.
In support of these initiatives the IMF approved a one-year Stand-by Arrangement on December 20,
1982 while the Government reached an agreement with commercial and bilateral creditors on an
initial round of debt rescheduling (see paras. 6-7).
iii.   Bank assistance was resumed with the Export Development Loan (EDL) approved by the
Board in May 1983 and aimed at supporting the Government's initial stabilization and debt
negotiation efforts (see paras. 14-15). The Bank assistance strategy had a long-run view of the
structural adjustment process and envisioned that a series of SALs would follow those initial efforts
(see para. 13). The Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) supported the first SAL and prepared basic
analytical work needed for subsequent stages of the adjustment. The first SAL was approved, jointly
with the TAL, by the Board in April 1985 and closed in June 1986; and SAL II in December 1988
and closed in July 1992. Both loans were fuilly disbursed (see paras. 1-2 and Part III).
Objectives
iv.   The structural adjustment program supported by the two SALs aimed at achieving sustained
growth through a reorientation of the country's development strategy. This was to be achieved by



- iv -
opening the economy to foreign competition and encouraging exports, and by redefining the role of
the public sector, moving it away from direct involvement in productive activities and limiting
intervention in key markets (see paras. 16 and 19). In a first stage, the reform process aimed to
reduce the anti-export bias of the trade regime, increase public sector efficiency, and reestablish
creditworthiness. A second stage supported economic recovery by continuing trade policy reform
and public sector reform, and improving efficiency of financial intermediation and agricultural
policies (see para. 20).
v.    The Government's program under SAL I focused on external trade liberalization and public
sector reform. The main actions in trade reform were: (i) maintaining an exchange rate policy
consistent with the IMF Stand-by Arrangement; (ii) replacing specific rates for ad valorem tariff rates
and reducing of tariff levels and ranges; (iii) reducing export taxes; and (iv) increasing incentives
to exporters. The main actions in public sector reform were: (i) limiting public employment and
wages; (ii) reducing earmarking; (iii) privatizing Costa Rican Development Corporation (CODESA)
enterprises; (iv) reducing the losses of the Agricultural Marketing Agency (CNP); (v) reducing public
investment expenditures; (vi) increasing tariffs and prices of public enterprises (see paras. 21-38).
vi.   The Government's program under SAL II aimed at deepening the reforms started in SAL I
and extending the scope of reforms in the areas of the financial sector and agricultural policies. The
main actions were: in trade reform: further reduction of average tariff rates and tariff ranges; and
measures to rationalize the export incentive system; in public finances: to divest 41 CODESA
enterprises and not to add new legislation establishing earmarked tax revenues; and in financial
intermediation: to gradually expand private bank activities, reduce the share of loans overdue, avoid
generalized domestic debt rescheduling, reduce the spread on outstanding subsidized credit, and
strengthen the regulatory powers of the Superintendency of Banks (see paras. 59-70).
Design, Implementation and Results
vii.   The design of the SALs aimed at addressing the structural weaknesses underlined by the
seriousness of the financial problems faced by Costa Rica in the early 1980s. The design problems
of the SALs can be largely ascribed to insufficient Bank and Borrower experience with the design
and implementation of early structural adjustment programs (see paras. 17 and 53). SAL I focused
on policy changes in some critical areas, notably trade policy reform, but lacked a comprehensive
approach to structural reform and some specific conditionality was deficient. Design issues were
more pronounced concerning the reduction of CNP losses as neither the Bank nor the Government
had defined clear means to achieve the targets, and on public sector employment as there was no
employment base to be monitored nor evaluation mechanisms the Government would use to
implement the employment freeze which in the event could not be enforced fully (see paras. 29, 32,
42, and 43). The design of SAL II clearly benefitted from the experience of SAL I (see para. 61).
Design, and consequently implementation, was satisfactory in agriculture and foreign trade, but there
were problems in targeting the level of public savings as there were no specific measures required
to achieve the savings target (see paras. 8649). In the event the Bank decided to grant a waiver
and fall back on the IMF's assessment that the Government was addressing fiscal imbalances.
viii.  The design of the SALs, however, did focus on the main structural problems faced by the
Costa Rican economy and progressively expanded the scope of reforms (see paras. 54 and 89). An



v -
open trade regime is the primary means to improve resource allocation, provide access to new
technology, and create a dynamic economic environment needed to finance social development.
SAL I initiated foreign trade liberalization in Costa Rica and provided momentum for a similar
process in other Central American countries (see para. 52). The expansion of public employment
has been the main source of public finance imbalances and without the efforts made in SAL I it is
likely the fiscal imbalances would have been much more severe (see para. 53). Divestiture of
CODESA enterprises and subsidiaries would significantly reduce public finance imbalances, as these
operations accounted for up to 20 percent of public deficits, and reduce inefficiencies (see paras.
44, 48 and 99). And limiting CNP losses attempted to reduce fiscal imbalances as well as reducing
distortions in agriculture (see para. 32). The design of SAL II appropriately included continuation
of trade policy reform, and more importantly initiated reforms in the banking sector and agricultural
policy (see para. 61).
ix.   Implementation of the SALs took longer than initially anticipated by the Bank (see paras. 71
and 85). The process posed difficult trade-offs and decisions for both the Bank and the Government
(see paras. 46-47, and 78). Both maintained intensive consultations to identify critical policy
reforms and to reach the consensus needed for Legislative approval, required by the Constitution,
of the programs and their implementation. The experience of the two SALs, also, indicates that
reaching consensus may lengthen the period to initiate and implement policy reforms but tends to
prevent reversals when conditionality is well defined, appropriate and shared by both parties (see
paras. 88-89, 112-114).
x.    The main accomplishment of the two SALs was to help begin and strengthen the process of
reorienting Costa Rica's development model. The process was by no means completed with SAL II,
but substantial progress was achieved and structural reform has continued and deepened during the
past two years. Specific achievements are discussed in detail in the sections on overall performance
(see paras. 49-54, 8549) and can be summarized as follows: (i) as a result of trade reform, the
economy is now relatively open, with a more diversified export base and less protected domestic
sector; (ii) Costa Rica took the early lead in promoting trade reform in the region; (iii) the relative
size and scope of the public sector have been reduced, and Government engendered distortions in
key markets have been significantly curtailed; and (iv) the private sector has expanded its role in the
financial sector and prudential regulations have been strengthened. Progress in social indicators and
improving of poverty alleviation, having weakened with the crisis of the early 1980s, was resumed
during the period of the programs following closely the pace of economic growth.
xi.   The main limitations of the SALs were in not addressing in a more comprehensive way two
critical areas in Costa Rica's economy: public sector reform and the role of the state-owned banking
sector (see paras. 53, 65, 100, 103). The former is being addressed under SAL III approved by the
Executive Directors in April 1993 and there are indications of an emerging domestic consensus on
the need for privatization of state banks.
Sustainability
xii.   Sustainability needs to be addressed on two levels: first, the sustainability of specific
measures or conditions required by the adjustment operations; and second, the sustainability and
continuity of the overall adjustment process over the longer term. Although SAL I faced difficult



- vi -
implementation problems and a number of second tranche measures had to be redesigned, specific
reforms, once agreed, were sustained (see paras. 46 and 54). In SAL II some delays were
encountered in implementation of second tranche conditions and a waiver was required for the public
savings target, but once implemented reform measures were sustained (see para. 85). For both
SALs there has been no backtracking on reform actions.
xiii.  Experience with the sustainability of the overall adjustment process has been positive to date.
SAL I begun the process of structural adjustment, which was continued and deepened in SAL II.
The process has continued beyond SAL II, with the recent Board approval of SAL III which would:
(i) complete the trade reform effort envisaged at the start of the SAL process; (ii) carry out a
comprehensive restructuring of the role and functions of the state; (iii) further deepen financial sector
reforms; and (iv) complete the process of domestic trade deregulation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiv.  Overall the Bank support for Costa Rica's structural adjustment process through the two
SALs has been justified and effective, despite some important shortcomings such as those in the area
of public sector reform. Throughout the process, the Bank has approached the structural reform
process in Costa Rica with a great deal of flexibility and has been effective in tailoring the SAL
instrument to the country's special circumstances. In particular, the Bank accepted the need to
implement reforms in a gradual manner and its judgement on overall Government commitment and
ability to implement reforms has been generally correct. The marked improvement in economic
performance, especially in 1992, has been a strong indicator of the success of the reforms.
xv.   The main a mplishments of the SALs, discussed in detail in the subsections on overall
performance, were: under SAL I, trade reform, changing the activities of CNP, addressing public
employment, and safeguarding the privatization of CODESA (see paras. 4748, 52-53); and under
SAL II, initiating reforms in financial intermediation and agricultural pricing policy reforms while
continuing trade reform (see paras. 86 and 88). Structural reforms progressed gradually and the
adjustment process was maintained.
xvi.  The main limitations of the SALs were addressing in a more comprehensive way two
critical areas in Costa Rica's economy: public sector reform and financial sector reform. Regarding
public sector reform the SALs were in line with the trend on institutional matter then prevailing in
the Bank -focusing on a few institutions or processes identified as priority problem areas. These
limited the costs of the public sector inefficiencies and some of its financial imbalances but only
temporarily since the programs lacked a comprehensive framework to address the structural
weaknesses of the public sector (see para. 87). Regarding the financial sector reform these were
limited by the political economy of the sector reflecting the Bank's cautious approach to reform of
the banking system (see paras. 103-105). These measures, however, contributed significantly to
broadening the scope of reforms of the financial sector needed to support structural adjustment of
productive sectors.
xvii.  TUe experience of the SALs once again confirms that there is no substitute for a strong
political commitment to the process of economic reforms. How to ensure this commitment in a
society such as Costa Rica's, however, is a difficult question. Clearly, program implementation was



- vii -
affected by the political cycle, but it is difficult to see what additional steps, if any, the Bank could
have taken to ensure that a bi-partisan commitment was in place before proceeding with the SALs
(see paras. 46, 71, 85). In the final analysis, since the Bank can only deal with Governments, it
must rely on its own judgment that the objectives and design of the reform program effectively
address country constraints and priorides. This is the only guarantee the Bank can have that a new
Administration will be equally committed to the reform program. In addition to an appropriate
design, the Bank must demonstrate flexibility and realism in evaluating progress toward agreed
objectives (see paras. 54, 8849). The experience in Costa Rica suggests that the political
commitment, albeit wavering at times, has been sustained and that the Bank demonstrated sufficient
flexibility in assessing performance in overall program implementation. The two SALs straddled
three Administrations and the Bank managed to correct the more important flaws in program design
in order to ensure continuity of the adjustment process.
xviii. The most important lessons, for future operations, are:
a)    The Bank needs to emphasize that the objectives and design of the reform program
effectively address the country's fundamental constraints particularly when program
imnplementadon can be affected by the political cycle.
b)    Program objectives need clearly specified actions idendfied as conditionalities for
successful implementation.
c)    In addition to an appropriate design, the Bank needs to demonstrate flexibility and
realism in evaluadng progress towards agreed objectives while maintaining credibility
in the actions that would follow non-compliance.
d)    The experience of the SALs reviewed here once again confirms that there is no
substitute for a strong political commitment to the process of economic reforms to
ensure proper design and successful implementation of a program.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS I AND II
(LOANS 2518-CR and 3005-CR)
Part I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Program Identity:
Names                  Structural Adjustment Loans I and II
Loan Numbers   :       2518-CR and 3005-CR
RVP Unit               Latin America and the Caribbean
Country         :      Costa Rica
Sector          :      Non-Project Lending
I. INTRODUCIION
l.    To assist the Government of Costa Rica in addressing the serious economic problems
emerging from the 1982 crisis, as well as the structural deficiencies accumulated in prior years, the
Bank supported the country's structural adjustment program through:
a) An Export Development Loan (EDL; Loan 2274-CR), which was approved on May 3,
1983, for $25.2 million, to provide, through a revolving fund mechanism, the foreign
exchange needed by exporters to pay for their imported inputs;
b) The First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I; Loan 2518-CR), approved on April 16,
1985, for $80 million aimed mainly at supporting improvements in the fiscal situation;
privatizing industrial state enterprises; strengthening the public sector investment program;
and reforming trade and industrial policies;
c) A Technical Assistance Loan (TAL; Loan 2519-CR), for $3.5 million, approved jointly
with SAL I and designed to help implement the reforms supported by the Loan and to carry
out preparatory work to support follow-up adjustment lending; and
d) The Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II; Loan 3005-CR), which was approved
on December 13, 1988, for $100 million, to support policy reforms aimed mainly at reducing
effective protection, promoting exports, eliminating price and interest rate subsidies, and
strengthening the financial system and the Government's fiscal position.



- 2 -
2.    This Program Completion Report (PCR) covers SAL I and II. Since PCRs for the EDL and
TAL operations have already been prepared,' only some references are made to them here to take
into account the fact that these four loans were closely related, as important vehicles of Bank support
for Costa Rica's adjustment efforts in the 1980s. Part I of the report is organized in the following
way: Section II includes a summary macroeconomic analysis of the economy during the period
leading up the first structural adjustment operation; this macroeconomic section provides a
framework for the analysis of SAL I and SAL II performance in Sections III and IV, respectively;
Section V discusses the role of stabilization policies and the IMF during the adjustment period; and
Section VI summarizes the main conclusions reached and lessons learned in the analysis of the SAL
programs, as well as of some relevant aspects of the Bank's EDL and TAL operation. Part II
includes the views of the borrower on both SALs.
II. MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND
3.    In 1980-82, Costa Rica faced an economic and financial crisis without precedent since the
1930s. After growing by less than 1 percent in 1980, real GDP declined by 2.3 percent in 1981 and
by more than 7 percent in 1982. Inflation accelerated from 18 percent in 1980 to more than 90
percent in 1982. Real wages fell during 1980-82 to about 30 percent of the 1976 level and open
unemployment increased from 5.9 percent in 1980 to 9.4 percent in 1982.
4.    The crisis resulted from structural weaknesses in the economy, as well as inappropriate
macroeconomic management in response to adverse external developments. The terms of trade
deteriorated sharply with the fall in coffee prices in 1978 and continued with the second oil shock
in 1979. Demand for Costa Rica's exports, especially to the Central America Common Market
(CACM), also declined rapidly. However, the main cause of the crisis was the adoption of
expansionary demand policies, as the Government's initial response to the fall in real incomes was
to increase public spending, financed by domestic and external borrowing. The overall deficit of
the non-financial public sector (excluding Central Bank losses), already close to 9 percent of GDP
in 1979, increased to 13.3 percent in 1980 and averaged 13.5 percent in 1981-82.
5.    The exchange rate, fixed for many years, became significantly misaligned contributing to
substantial capital outflows and a deteriorating balance of payments. External debt doubled rapidly
from about $1.4 billion in 1978 to $2.8 billion in 1982 to finance fiscal and balance of payments
deficits. Debt service increased sharply as external borrowing expanded and international interest
rates rose. The external public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio, which had averaged about
10 percent of exports during 1970-77, increased to about 27 percent in 1979. The cost of servicing
this debt became unsustainable and Costa Rica began to accumulate arrears in 1980 and early 1981.
In August 1981 the Government suspended most of its principal and interest paymnents to creditors
other than multilateral institutions. Despite the seriousness of the situation, the Government failed
three times (between March 1980 and December 1981) to reach a lasting agreement with the IMF,
mainly because of its inability to control public spending.
1 PCR of EDL, April 18, 1988; PAR of EDL, Report No. 7779, May 10, 1989; PCR of the TAL mubmiited to
OED on June 24, 1992.



- 3 -
6.    The new Administration, which took office in May 1982, took a number of measures aimed
at containing inflationary pressures and resuming foreign public debt service payments. The
Government introduced new taxes, adopted a flexible exchange rate policy, raised tariffs of public
utilities and increased the price of petroleum derivatives. Partial payments of interest on Costa
Rica's commercial debt were resumed in July 1982. In support of these initiatives the IMF approved
a one-year Stand-by Arrangement on December 20, 1982 while the Government reached an
agreement with commercial and bilateral creditors on an initial round of debt rescheduling.
7.    Public finances and overall economic performance improved in 1983. The overall deficit of
the non-financial public sector fell from about 14 percent of GDP in 1981 to 3.6 percent in 1983.
By the end of 1983 the exchange rate was unified at the higher free market rate and there was some
repatriation of private capital, somewhat improving the net international reserve position of the
Central Bank. Inflation declined from 90 percent in 1982 to about 33 percent in 1983 (consumer
price index) and real GDP grew by 2.4 percent. By the end of 1983 Costa Rica had eliminated
almost all external debt arrears.
8.    Despite progress in 1983, serious problems persisted. Exports fell and the current account
deficit remained high at about 11 percent of GDP in 1983. Although economic growth resumed,
open unemployment remained at about 9 percent. Domestic credit to the public sector was higher
than targeted, power tariff increases were partially rescinded in mid-1983, and public sector agencies
failed to service their debt obligations with the Central Bank. Central Bank losses, arising mainly
from interest and exchange rate losses, reached 5.6 percent of GDP in 1982 and 4.9 percent in 1983.
Central Bank losses, which represented additional credit to the public sector, largely offset the
contractionary effects of lower public sector deficits.
9.    Fiscal, monetary and balance of payments performance deteriorated in the first half of 1984
and Costa Rica faced a foreign exchange liquidity crisis which was temporarily resolved through a
standstill arrangement with foreign commercial banks and additional U.S. bilateral assistance. The
Govermnent implemented a package of tax and balance of payment measures in mid-1984, including
increases in selective consumption taxes, a 10 percent tax on imports previously exempted, changes
in the corporate income tax, and a 0.5 percent administration charge on tax revenues collected by
the Government on behalf of other public entities. The monetary measures included increases in the
basic deposit rate, establishing a marginal reserve requirement of 50 percent, and increasing local
currency deposit requirements for all requests for foreign exchange from 50 to 100 percent.
10.   These measures led to a marked improvement in 1984. GDP growth shot up to 8 percent,
the non-financial public sector deficit decreased to 1.6 percent of GDP (5.9 percent including Central
Bank losses), and inflation dropped to 12 percent. The weak point remained the balance of
payments. Although the current account deficit decreased in 1984, at 7.6 percent of GDP it
remained high and exports showed little dynamism.
11.   Costa Rica's 1980-82 economic crisis, the Government's attempts to restore macroeconomic
equilibrium through ad hoc stabilization measures and the still fragile extemal position set the stage
for a redefinition, albeit gradual and tentative, of the country's development strategy. A political
consensus began to emerge on the need to reorient the economy, away from its inward orientation
and dependence on preferential access to regional markets, toward an export-led economy that could



- 4 -
compete in markets outside Central America. Coupled with this was the perceived need to contain
the overexpansion of the State, reduce distortions caused by Government intervention, and deal with
the pressures which had led to expansionary fiscal policies. Although Costa Rica's then prevailing
development model of industrialization through import substitution and accompanying extensive
Government interventions in the economy was being seriously questioned, there was also a strong
domestic consensus on the need to implement change in a gradual manner that would not undermine
the country's impressive economic and social development achievements.
III. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
A. LOAN PREPARATION
12.   In 1980, shortly after the Bank started its structural adjustment lending, the Government and
Bank staff started to discuss the possibility of Bank support for a structural adjustment program in
Costa Rica. Bank assistance for this purpose was formally requested by the Govermnent during the
1980 Board of Governors meeting. Since at that time, the likelihood of adopting the required
policies was highly doubtful (for instance, the Government was not complying then with a Stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in March 1980), the initial Bank response was justifiably cautious,
and the Bank suggested to intensify its policy dialogue to ascertain whether SAL-type lending was
a viable option.
13.   By mid-1981, serious concerns were raised by Bank managers regarding Costa Rica's
creditworthiness. It was then decided to intensify the policy dialogue, starting iimmediately (through
a July 1981 mission) with Bank assistance for the preparation of a structural adjustment program and
of a quick-disbursing export development operation, which would support some of the required initial
policy reforms. It was expected then that Bank assistance would be closely coordinated with the
IMF, which had agreed on a new Stand-by Arrangement with the Government in June 1981. In
August 1981, Costa Rica suspended the servicing of its commercial and bilateral debt. In November
1981, the LAC Region submitted an Initiating Memorandum (IM) to Bank Management, which
proposed several stages of Bank assistance to the structural adjustment process, starting with an
Export Sector Loan (ESL) to be followed by a series of SALs. The IM envisaged an ESL with
substantial policy conditionality, covering: (i) appropriate exchange rate management; (ii) reduction
or elimination of export taxes; (iii) simplification of export procedures; (iv) elimination of traditional
export quotas; (v) interest rate adjustment to reduce subsidies and and-saving biases; (vi) an
acceptable stabilization program; (vii) auditing and restructuring of the public commercial banks; and
(viii) establishment of a discount facility to channel foreign currency resources to exporters. The
IM proposed that conditionality for the first SAL would include: (i) further interest rate increases;
(ii) continuation of the stabilization program; (iii) reform of pricing and marketing policies; and (iv)
improvements in public sector management. The conditionality of the ESL would concentrate on
trade policy and selected financial policy issues, while the SAL would focus on other key policy
areas and in the continuation of reforms initiated with ESL support. It should be noted that the most
important of the required trade policy reforms-the reduction in the level and dispersion of tariff
protecdon-was not included in the proposed conditionality of either loan, since it was not
considered feasible to obtain quickly the regional Central American consensus that would be



- 5 -
required. The IM suggested, however, that the processing of the first SAL would include a review
of effective protection.
14.   The economy continued to deteriorate in 1981 but the Carazo Administration made no
progress in either stabilization or some of the preliminary reform measures that would have been
required to process the ESL and SAL operations. During this period there was no effective policy
dialogue with the Administration and the Government lacked the political will to confront the serious
challenges facing the economy. The new Administration, which had taken office in May 1982,
however, gave high priority to starting the reform process. The Government's economic team and
the Bank recognized the need to move quickly on stabilization and debt negotiations. By the end of
1982, the new Administration had put in place a new stabilization program supported by the IMF
and discussions also intensified on the possible SAL from the Bank. Since the formulation and
adoption of the structural reform program to be supported by the SAL would take quite sometime,
as well as the urgent need to increase foreign exchange inflows and assist Costa Rica deal with its
external debt problem, the Government and the Bank decided to give priority to processing quickly
the ESL that had been originally proposed in late 1981, with an important difference-no policy
conditionality was attached to the operation, which was then renamed 'Export Development Loan'
(EDL). The EDL was essentially a vehicle to transfer resources quickly to the country and to
demonstrate Bank support for the Government's initial stabilization and debt negotiation efforts.
Although the EDL was the first step in the adjustment process, it was treated more as an investment
project with conditionality limited to project-related matters and not an adjustment operation. The
Bank and the IMF were also active in assisting Costa Rica to work with the commercial banks and
in presenting its case to the Paris Club in January 1983.
15.   The EDL was approved by the Bank Board in May 1983, and was expected to disburse
quickly, through a revolving foreign exchange fund which would finance imported inputs required
by exporters. However, performance under this loan left much to be desired. The expected quick
disbursing of loan funds did not materialize owing to: (i) design deficiencies associated mainly with
an overestimation of the demand for foreign exchange funds by exporters; and (ii) delays in the
required approval by the Legislative Assembly, which made it necessary to postpone loan
effectiveness until March 1984. The loan was not fully disbursed until December 1985. The
problems affecting implementation of the EDL-which were analyzed in the PCR dated April 18,
1988, and in the OED Program Performance Audit Report dated May 10, 1989-also contributed
to the substantial delays affecting preparation of the SAL in 1983 and 1984.
16.   Given Costa Rica's overall economic situation, before a SAL could be appraised it was
necessary for the Government to adopt a number of important economic policy decisions aimed at
stabilization and reestablishing Costa Rica's creditworthiness. The formal preparation of SAL I
started during a Bankl mission which visited Costa Rica in June-July, 1983. In January 1984, after
subsequent consultations with the Government and within the Bank, it was decided to appraise this
loan once: (i) the then ongoing negotiations between Costa Rica and the IMF had been satisfactorily
completed; and (ii) there were reasonable prospects for Costa Rica obtaining the required
concessional assistance from other donors and furtier commercial debt relief. It was decided that
the minimum SAL program should include: (i) reallocation of resources between the public and
private sectors, including agreement on the composition and size of the public investment program
and ceilings on total public sector employment; (ii) strengthening of public sector management,



especially improving the efficiency of major state enterprises of the Costa Rican Development
Corporation (CODESA) and eliminating CODESA's access to Central Bank credit; (iii) export
promotion and rationalization of the trade regime; and (iv) resource mobilization. In addition to the
standard fiscal and tariff policy conditionality, the IMF was expected to have primary responsibility
for reaching agreement with the Government on the following issues: interest rate policy; subsidies;
credit ceilings and controls for the banking system; and exchange rate policy. It was also decided
to explore further the scope for improving Costa Rica's trade regime vis-d-vis third countries, either
under the CACM regime or otherwise. The Bank decided, moreover, that key SAL conditions
requiring a Legislative Assembly decision would have to be approved by the Assembly before Board
Presentation. The Bank's Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) would include support for SAL I
implementation, as well as preparatory work to support future adjustment lending.
17.   The processing of SAL I, after the authorization to appraise had been given to the Region
was long and difficult, taking one full year from appraisal to negotiations, which were completed in
February 1985. This was due largely to the following reasons:
a) The initial design proposal for SAL I does not seem to have been based on a clear
analysis, both by the Bank and the Government, of the impediments to sustained growth,
the measures to overcome them, and their sequencing. These shortcomings, which were
pointed out in an internal note by the Regional Vice President dated November 26, 1984,
were addressed through the country economic work undertaken subsequently by Bank
staff and reflected in the SAL I President's Report.
b) An important factor contributing to the lengthy preparation of SAL I was a lack of
economic leadership caused in large measure by a change in the Government's economic
team. Although the Government took some important steps to stabilize the economy, the
momentum for structural reform slowed with the departure of the Central Bank President.
c) The adoption of policy reforms which, by their nature, often are unpopular or affect
powerful political and/or economic interests, generally takes a long time in Costa Rica,
because of the need to achieve national consensus and the protracted approval process of
the Legislative Assembly.
d) Some of the key reforms supported by SAL I also faced obstacles posed by prior
commitments made by Costa Rica at the regional level, in the framework of the CACM.
18.   The combination of the above factors made it necessary for the Bank to modify its position
in several important aspects during SAL I processing. For instance, at the time of the Initiating
Memorandum, it was envisaged that the maximum nominal tariff level would be reduced from 220
percent (a level determined by the Central American Common External Tariff [CETI) to 50 percent,
and that effective protection would be also reduced by eliminating exemptions and increasing
minimum tariffs on imported inputs and capital goods. The Bank reconsidered its position in these
respects, resulting in a program which included smaller tariff reductions and which was aimed at
"reducing effective protection to a maximum level of 120 percent by 1990."
- - - - - - -_- - - - - - - - - - - -



- 7 -
19.   The above difficulties notwithstanding, the overall policy reforms adopted by Costa Rica
during 1982-85 constituted a significant change in the direction of economic policy, and an important
first stage of the structural reform process. These measures-many of which were associated with
Bank conditionality for appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation-are listed in the second
column of the SAL I policy matrix (Annex 1) and included: (i) Export promotion and trade: a
more realistic and flexible exchange rate policy; the establishment of a revolving Export Financing
Fund; the elimination of export taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets; the introduction
of an improved drawback mechanism; and agreement on a new regional tariff treaty; (ii) Public
sector resource mobilization: measures aimed at increasing current revenues by 7.5 percentage
points of GDP during 1982-85; and increases in public utilities and petroleum prices; and (iii) Public
sector management and efficiency: reduction of public sector investment expenditures from 10
percent of GDP in 1981 to 6.4 percent in 1983, and to no more than 6.5 percent in 1984-86; a 1984-
86 freeze on public sector employment levels; reorganization of CODESA and privatization of its
enterprises; and measures aimed at reducing the Agricultural Marketing Agency (CNP) losses by
one-half in 1985.
B. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
20.   SAL I was approved by the Bank Board in April 1985. The adjustment program it supported
aimed at overcoming what both the Government and the Bank considered to be the critical
impediments to the resumption of sustained growth: (i) the anti-export bias of the trade regime,
which had resulted in the development of an inefficient, import-intensive industrial sector, oriented
mainly to national and regional import substitution activities, at the expense of fostering exports to
extra-regional markets; (ii) a too large public sector, and an inefficient control of its expenditures,
which restricted the resources available for private sector development; and (iii) the country's
extremely high external debt service requirements, and the related need for large external financial
assistance and for effective control of new indebtedness. The first phase of the structural adjustment
program--the phase supported by SAL I-focused on these areas. It was anticipated at the time that
additional adjustment phases-to be supported by subsequent SALs-would deal with three other
areas: the banking system, the policy framework in agriculture, and the cost-effectiveness of the
social security, health and education sectors. TAL included basic analytical work that would be
needed to support subsequent reforms in these areas.
a) Export Development and Trade Policy Reform
21.   The first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, concerning trade policy,
aimed at promoting rapid and sustainable growth of extra-regional exports, with emphasis on non-
traditional products. The SAL I President's Report identified the main obstacles to the rapid
development of new extra-regional exports as: "(i) a policy framework which biases the incentive
system (exchange rate, tariff regime, export taxes, etc.), toward regional import substitution, where
markets are better known and quality controls are less stringent; (ii) the small size of locally owned
industries, which are mainly operated by family oriented entrepreneurs who tend to avoid risking
their own funds and have limited marketing skills for a successful export drive; (iii) the fact that
many large firms have significant transnational participation, which may cause difficulties in
exporting outside the region, depending on the policies of the parent corporation and the existence
of sister plants in the importing countries; (iv) the weak financial position of firms affected by the



- 8 -
traumatic events of 1980-82; and (v) the higher freight costs and delivery delays associated with the
lack of direct sea freight services to markets outside the region. ' To address these problems, the
adjustment program focused on: (i) an exchange rate policy consistent with the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement; (ii) the tariff regime; (iii) export taxation; and (iv) other export incentives and
promotion measures. The action programs adopted in those four areas are summarized below.
22.   Exchange Rate. The Government would maintain its flexible exchange rate policy, with the
Col6n being adjusted as needed to improve export competitiveness. In addition to the adjustments
that had already been made in 1984 and 1985, further devaluation would take place during the
remainder of 1985, within the framework of the IMF Stand-by Arrangement. The Bank would
monitor the competitiveness of exports.
23.   Reform of the Trade Regime. This was considered as the most important long-term policy
reform supported by SAL I, although its agreed goals were less ambitious than those initially sought
by the Bank. This component was being implemented through modification of the CET and related
fiscal incentives, which already had been initiated at the regional level, and for which the
Government was playing a leading role. In December 1984, the five countries of the region
approved a new tariff and customs treaty which, at the time of Board approval of SAL I, had already
been ratified by four countries, including Costa Rica and was expected to be put in effect not later
than October 1, 1985. The modifications to the CET system agreed at the regional level included:
a) adoption of the Brussels nomenclature, and the transformation of the system to an ad
valorem basis, eliminating existing specific duties;
b) elimination of all exemptions on raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods;
c) elimination of regional investment incentives;
d) creation of a Central American Council for Tariffs and Customs, with authority to
establish and modify region-wide import tariffs;
e) new tariffs for raw materials, intermediates and capital goods, which would be raised to
a range of 5-10 percent for non-competing items (i.e., those items not produced in
Central America), and to 20 percent for competing ones (i.e., those produced in Central
America); and
f) new tariffs for all finished consumer goods not produced in Central America (non-
competing), which would be reduced to a 5-10 percent range.
24.   The Government agreed to implement these reforms before the release of SAL I second
tranche. In addition, the Government committed itself to seek regional agreement on further tariff
reform measures, and to enact these measures at the national level if no regional agreement was
obtained. These additional reforms, which would also be enacted before second tranche release,
included: (i) tariffs for non-competing capital goods would be raised to 20 percent, while the tariffs
for non-competing raw materials and intermediates would be 10 percent in all cases; and (ii) tariffs
for competing final goods would be reduced from a range of 40-220 percent to 35-70 percent. The



- 9 -
Government also agreed to seek further tariff reforms at the regional level to reduce the maximum
effective protection level to no more than 120 percent by 1990, and to undertake-with support to
be provided by the TAL-a detailed analysis of the impact of the new trade regime, in order to
identify further changes that might be necessary.
25.   Export Taxes. The Government had reduced export taxes substantially in 1983-84, by
eliminating all taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets (which had been 4 percent
previously); and by reducing the specific banana tax from $1.00 to $0.75 per box, and the tax on
beef from 4 to 1 percent. While some export taxes (mainly on coffee and bananas) remained at high
levels, these reforms were an important step in the process of reducing the prevailing anti-export
bias. In the context of SAL I, the Government also indicated that it did not plan to introduce new
export taxes on non-traditional exports to third markets.
26.   Other Export Measures. The Government had already adopted a series of measures to
increase incentives for non-traditional exporters to extra-regional markets, including: (i) exemption
of taxes for imported inputs required by those exporters; (ii) an income tax exemption equivalent to
a subsidy of 10 percent of the value of non-traditional exports; (iii) the streamlining of pre-existing
tax rebates (the CAT system) to make them more automatic and to expedite payment of the rebates
by the Government; and (iv) a new package of additional subsidies and other benefits for exporters
agreeing to specified increases in their export levels. The Government also agreed as a condition
for second tranche release, to complete preparation of a comprehensive assistance program for the
export-oriented modernization of industrial enterprises.
27.   The Structural Adjustment Program  originally included a component for Industrial
modernization to be developed under the TAL. The TAL was to develop a program to assist
industries to modernize, including a detailed analysis by industrial sub-sector of specific needs for
upgrading plant and equipment, financial assistance, technical support and training programs for
management and labor.  The actual analysis, however, addressed the issues of industrial
modernization through the effects of trade policy reform and the focus of the program was adjusted
accordingly.
b) Public Sector Reform
28.   The Government and the Bank shared the view that the public sector's size, its inefficiency,
and the share of resources that it consumed, constituted major impediments to growth. The
Government was not able to properly monitor and control budgets and prograrns, and to ensure
efficient use of resources. As pointed out in the President's Report these problems had been brought
about by: "(i) a comprehensive system of revenue earmarking and compulsory expenditures which
limits the discretionary power of the Government; (ii) the rapid growth of the public sector and the
large number of constitutionally mandated programs, some operating on a virtually autonomous
basis; (iii) the lack of adequate administrative systems to prepare and control public sector budgets
in a comprehensive and coordinated fashion; and (iv) the ease with which Government agencies have
been able to borrow unilaterally for investment as well as current expenditures, including external
borrowing, without taking into account overall Government priorities and resource constraints." To
address the pressing need for public sector reform, the Structural Adjustment Program focused on:
"(i) limiting public employment and wages; (ii) budgetary administration and control; (iii)



- 10-
restructuring CODESA; (iv) reducing CNP's losses; (v) public sector investment planning; (vi)
public resource mobilization; and (vii) external public debt management and improved
creditworthiness."
29.   Public Employment and Wages. In February 1984, the Government had "(i) imposed a
freeze on public sector employment levels for three years (1984-86) effective March 2, 1984; (ii)
retired all Central Government officials 65 years or older; (iii) authorized public institutions to pay
accrued benefits to employees as a bonus to encourage relocation to the private sector; and (iv)
restricted further wage increases to absolute changes in the cost of a basic basket of goods and
services", which would hold wage increases below the rate of inflation. The Government was
committed to continuing this policy and agreed that maintaining the employment freeze would be a
condition for second tranche release. Although there was agreement as the need to maintain an
employment freeze, there is no indication this target was based on analysis that would define the
employment base or the mechanisms that would be used to implement and monitor the freeze.
30.   Budgetary Administration and Control. To address the need for maintaining control over
Central Government finances, the Government planned to: (i) submit tax reform proposals to the
Legislative Assembly in mid-1986; (ii) further reduce earmarking in the 1987 budget; (iii) strengthen
the control of budget execution; and (iv) analyze budget performance with a view to identifying
issues requiring further attention in subsequent years. The Government, moreover, agreed with the
Bank that it would not propose or approve any legislation incorporating new earmarking of tax
revenues.
31.   Restructuring and Privatization  of the Costa Rican Development Corporation
(CODESA). In view of the major drain in public finances caused by the operations of this state
holding company and its subsidiaries-accounting for up to 20 percent of the total public sector
deficit in some years-the Government had decided to sell CODESA enterprises or to liquidate their
assets if no buyers were found. CODESA would remain the majority owner (60 percent) of only
two enterprises (fertilizers and cement), for which it would enter into 10-year management contracts
with private investors, who would also purchase the other 40 percent of their shares. The
Government agreed that completion of an action plan to carry out the divesture of CODESA
enterprises during 1985 would be a second tranche condition.
32.   Reduction of Losses of the Agriculture Marketing Agency (CNP). This autonomous
Government agency was responsible for setting producer prices for rice, beans, corn and sorghum,
and was also involved in importing, exporting and selling domestically a variety of agricultural and
agroindustrial products and inputs. CNP's operational losses amounted to 40 percent of the 1984
non-financial public sector deficit. The Government agreed to reduce CNP's deficit by 50 percent
each year, starting in 1985. Compliance with this goal in 1985 would be a condition for second
tranche release. Although there was agreement as the importance of reducing CNP losses, there is
no indication that the Bank or the Government had undertaken a careful analysis of how this target
was to be achieved.
33.   Public Sector Investment Planning. To address the need to reduce the size and increase
the efficiency of the public sector, the Government and the Bank also agreed on a revised 198486
Public Sector Investment Program, including the Central Government and all key public sector



- 11 -
entities. This agreement reduced substantially the previously planned public investment levels.
Satisfactory compliance with the 1985 targets would be a condition for second tranche release. In
addition, the Government also decided to undertake, with Bank technical assistance, a reorganization
of the Planning Ministry and a strengthening of its planning functions, particularly those related to
public investment.
34.   Public Resource Mobilization. To help achieve the Government stabilization targets, and
to improve the long-term performance of public finances, the Structural Adjustment Program
included the following actions related to public sector revenues: (i) undertaking a comprehensive
review of the tax system, which would lead to a tax reform proposal, and a substantial strengthening
of tax administration; and (ii) maintaining tariffs and prices of public enterprises at levels sufficient
to cover operational expenditures, debt service requirements and a reasonable share of investment
expenditures. The Government also indicated that domestic prices for oil products, already above
international levels, would be further adjusted if needed to reflect any increase in the cost of oil
imports.
c) External Debt Management
35.   External debt had increased rapidly until 1981 owing to over-expansionary macroeconomic
policies, and to the lack of appropriate controls on external borrowing by public sector entities. The
high debt service levels had made it necessary for the Government to restructure the public sector
commercial and bilateral debt, and to obtain new commercial and official financing in the framework
of the stabilization and structural adjustment programs. To better control external debt, the
Government decided to require prior approval of new borrowings based on an evaluation of debt
service implications by the Budget Authority, the Planning Ministry and the Controller General. The
Government was also strengthening the debt statistical and projection system of the Central Bank.
d) Conditions for Second Tranche Release
36.   It was agreed that before release of the second tranche-which was expected to take place
in November, 1985-the Government would have taken the policy actions listed in the third column
of the SAL I policy matrix (Annex 1), including: (i) all necessary measures to implement a freeze
on public sector employment; (ii) measures required to reduce CNP's operating losses; (iii) design
of a program to modernize the industrial sector; (iv) preparation of a plan of action for the divestiture
in 1985 of CODESA's enterprises; (v) compliance with the 1985 public sector investment targets,
and review of the 1984-86 public investment program; (vi) measures to put into effect the agreed
charges on imports of raw materials, intermediates and capital goods; and (vii) measures to put into
effect the Nomenclature Arancelaria Uniforme Centroamericana, convert tariffs schedules on
imported goods to an ad valorem base, and implement the new regional trade regime. It was also
agreed that before releasing the second tranche, the Bank should have found satisfactory the overall
progress in the execution of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, and in carrying out
the SAL-related studies and programs financed by the TAL.



- 12 -
e) Bank Technical Support for the Structural Adjustment Program
37.   Bank staff provided technical support for the preparation and implementation by the
Government of the Structural Adjustment Program through frequent missions to Costa Rica, other
discussions and consultations held as part of the overall policy dialogue. In addition, the TAL's
objective was to help implement the reforms supported by SAL I, and to assist in the preparation of
subsequent policy actions, which could become the basis of further Bank support for the structural
adjustment process.
38.   The TAL provided financing for a variety of studies related to the strengthening of selected
functions of the Budgetary Authority, CODESA, the Planning Ministry, the social security system,
the state-owned commercial banks, the Tax and Customs Administrations, and the national
educational system. It also included support for the preparation of studies and programs on
agricultural policy, public sector salary and incentive policies, and the impact of trade policy reform
on the industrial sector. The TAL PCR findings on the implementation of the TAL indicate that its
hasty preparation, lack of clear focus in its formulation, and poor linkage with an overall framework
to ensure the consistency of the various institutional development activities supported by the Loan,
reduced substantially its beneficial impact, and its relevance for the structural adjustment process2.
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
39.   SAL I (and TAL) effectiveness occurred on August 23, only four months after Board
approval. The unusually short time, by Costa Rican standards, taken by the Legislative Assembly
to approve these loans suggests that after the lengthy delays in preparing SAL I, there was a growing
political realization of the urgency to begin the process of structural reform. By the time of loan
effectiveness, however, Costa Rica was discussing remedial actions with the IMF to keep the
program in track and in accordance with the Loan Agreement, the Bank proceeded to declare the
loan effective and to disburse fully the first tranche in early September.
a) Review of Second Tranche Conditionality-November 1985
40.   A review of compliance with second tranche conditionality was carried out in November,
1985, which concluded that performance up to then had been mixed. The political cycle in Costa
Rica had a considerable impact on program implementation.  In fact, by the time of loan
effectiveness the political campaign leading up to the February 1986 elections was in full swing.
Both the Government and the Legislative Assembly were preoccupied with the electoral campaign
and more vulnerable to political pressures.
41.   At the time of the review of compliance with second tranche conditionality, a number of
important issues on tariff reform were unresolved, including the lack of approval by the Legislative
Assembly of the new individual tariffs on a product-by-product basis; the approval by the Assembly
of two amendments exempting agricultural inputs from tariff increase, and authorizing the Ministry
of Economy to spread tariff reductions on final goods over a three-year period in cases where an
2 Tm PCR for the TAL provides more dotailed information on its original design, the subsequent changes made
in its contents, and the main results obtined through its implementation.



- 13 -
immediate reduction could cause 'serious injury'; the reluctance of the Government to enact the
import surcharge on inputs; and the existing differences between the new tariff levels approved at
the regional level and those agreed between Costa Rica and the Bank (for instance, the new tariff
levels for competing, regionally-produced raw materials and intermediate goods spread over a 10-100
percent range, while the range agreed with the Bank was 20-30 percent).
42.   The CNP deficit, which the Government had agreed to cut by 50 percent in 1985, had
actually increased by about 40 percent, as a result of poor management and of higher-than-expected
sorghum production.
43.   PubLic employment had increased by an estimated 2.5 percent in 1985, instead of being
frozen at the 1984 level, as agreed with the Bank. Such increase was first estimated to be equivalent
to about 3,500 employees. This estimate was later reduced to 2,800. This higher employment level
had been caused mainly by the inability of the Central Government to enforce the employment freeze
in autonomous agencies. For instance, the Social Security Administration had added 1,500 new
employees for the expansion of rural health services and other programs. Employment in the Central
Government had also increased, although by a smaller proportion (0.7 percent).
44.   Compliance was much better in the case of CODESA.  Although divestiture had not
progressed as fast as originally programmed, valuation of the larger enterprises had been completed,
and the bidding process was under way. Likewise, substantial progress had been made concerning
implementation of the public sector investment program, and the Government was in compliance
with the quantitative target (no more than 6.5 percent of GDP) agreed with the Bank.
45.   The lack of compliance with most second tranche conditions in November 1985 made it
impossible for the Bank to release the second tranche on schedule. The previous month Costa Rica
had also failed to meet the IMF performance criteria, but could draw the remaining resources under
the Stand-by Arrangement on the basis of a waiver approved by the IMF Board on October 23.
b) Progress to June 1986 and Second Tranche Release
46.   During the following six months, progress in implementation of SAL I continued at a slow
pace and performance in meeting second tranche conditions was unsatisfactory. A new Government
took office in May 1986 and, while restating its commitment to the adjustment program, indicated
it would be unable to fulfill all second tranche conditions before the Loan's closing date (June 30,
1986). The Government proposed a series of measures on trade, CNP and public employment,
which it felt were politically feasible but which the Bank found not fully satisfactory. In April 1986,
the Bank considered three options: (i) insist on full compliance with second tranche conditionality,
which would have implied the cancellation of SAL I; (ii) accept the Government's initial proposal,
which was unsatisfactory; or (iii) accept that the original second tranche conditions could not be fully
met but seek further actions in line with the overall objectives of the reform program. The Bank
chose option (iii) and proposed to the Government revised actions which would get the program back
on track (par. 47). In reaching its decision, the Bank judged that the revised actions represented
substantive policy changes, implying greater discipline in approaching commitments to the adjustment
programn and because of it there were good prospects for the continuation of the adjustment effort
which could be supported by a second SAL.



- 14 -
47.   Agreement on the revised set of conditions for second tranche release was reached on April
28, 1986.3 These focused on three areas: (i) Tariff reform: significant reductions of surcharges
on final consumer goods4 and their elimination by end of 1986, and reducing the tariff ceiling of
commodities in Part II to 70 percent; (ii) CNP: suspension of CNP activities in the marketing of rice
and elimination of the subsidy, price adjustments on basic grains, suspension of CNP purchases of
sorghum;' and (iii) Public Sector Employment: a freeze on new hiring for the remainder of 1986
and 1987 unless offset by reductions elsewhere and an agreement on an action plan, including
quantification, to reduce public sector employment to March 1984 level.
48.   By June 5, 1986 Bank Management decided that sufficient progress had been made in meeting
revised tranche release conditionality to justify release of the second tranche, which took place on
June 23, after the Government made public the last required policy decisions. Performance at the
time of second tranche release can be summarized as follows:
a) The Government was in compliance, albeit at later dates than agreed upon, with
conditions on CODESA's divesture program; implementation of the public sector
investment program; and the initial design stage of a program to modernize the industrial
sector.
b) The Government did not comply with the original condition to reduce CNP's losses by
50 percent starting in 1985. On the contrary, during that year, CNP losses increased
further, owing to higher sorghum production and larger rice purchases than planned. The
Government took the revised measures agreed for second tranche release of which the
most important was excluding the public sector from the marketing of sorghum and rice.
These measures were designed to cut CNP's deficit in 1986 to no more than 800 million
colones during the subsequent 12 months.
c) Public employment had not been frozen at the 1984 level, as agreed under SAL I. The
registered increase (between 2.0 and 2.5 percent, depending upon the sources of figures
and estimates) was, however, much smaller than in previous years, when it had averaged
about 6 percent annually. The Bank relied on a Government commitment to maintain,
for the remainder of 1986 and 1987, the employment freeze and an action plan to reduce
public employment thereafter.
d) Compliance with trade reform conditions was mixed since conditions under SAL I had
not been fully met due mainly to limited progress in regional negotiations within the
3The LAC Regional Vice President submitted these changes in conditions for second tranche release for approval
to the Senior Vice President Operations in a memorandum dated April 24, 1986, who approved them on April 28,
1986.
4From 12.5 to 7 percent on regionally produced final consumer goods; and from a range of 40- 100 to 30 percent
on non-regionally produced final consumer goods.
5 Estimated CNP savings from these measures, over the following 12 months, was 1.3 billion colones - representing
a reduction on CNP overall deficit of 62 percent.



- 15 -
CACM but measures were taken and the revised actions agreed for second tranche release
had been complied with. The main aspects of issues at that time were:
i) The Government maintained its commitment to seek a regional agreement within the
CACM on the basis of the 20-30 percent level by Board presentation. The new
regional tariff had, however, a range of 10-100 percent for competing raw materials
and intermediate goods, instead of the 20-30 percent range agreed with the Bank.
There were also some other, less important, differences with the new regional tariff.
ii) Import surcharges on final consumer goods were reduced in June 1986 from 12.5 to
7.5 percent for non-regionally produced items, and from 40-100 percent to a
maximum of 30 percent for regionally produced ones. These surcharge levels were
further reduced (to 3.5 and 15 percent, respectively) by September 1986, and fully
eliminated by December 1986. The Government had also, as agreed in the revised
conditions for second tranche release (para. 47), submitted by June 13, 1986 for
Legislative approval a law exempting final consumer goods from the general 3
percent import tax.6
iii) In December 1985, the Central Bank had approved a surcharge of 2 percent on
'most' non-regionally produced raw materials and intermediate goods which,
combined with regional tariff rates, resulted in an average rate of 7 percent. The
Central Bank also approved a surcharge of 10 percent on 'most' non-regionally
produced capital goods which, combined with regional tariffs, reached an unweighted
average of 15 percent tariff level. These new overall tariffs represented a substantial
increase, although they remained below the floor levels of 10 percent for non-
regionally produced raw materials and intermediate goods and of 20 percent for non-
regionally produced capital goods agreed under SAL I.
iv) No regional agreement within the CACM had been reached on tariff levels for some
important items, including textiles, garments, plastics and paper products. As a
result, each country (including Costa Rica) set up tariffs for these items at very high
levels, typically in the 70-100 percent range. The Government indicated to the Bank
that it would seek regional approval-and subsequent ratification by the Legislative
Assembly-for lower tariffs on these items, which would not be higher than the 70
percent previously agreed as revised actions for second tranche release.
c) Overai Performance
49.   The decision to release the second tranche was based on a positive judgment by the Bank on
the overall performance in implementing the Structural Adjustment Program (stated in the Loan
Agreement) and compliance with the revised set of conditions agreed on April 28, 1986 (para. 47).
At the end of 1985, when the second tranche was scheduled to be released, overall performance had
fallen well short of expectations. In addition to the specific issues identified in the November 1985
6 As agreed, this tax continued to be applied to imports of raw materials, intermediate and capital goods thereby
fiuther reducing effective protection.



- 16 -
review, the stabilization and structural adjustment programs were both clearly off-track. Instead of
declining, the overall public sector deficit had risen to 7 percent of GDP. Partly owing to
expansionary domestic policies, the inflation rate had reached 15 percent. The current account
deficit had risen to 8 percent of GDP, partly due to a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, and
by year-end, Costa Rica was not servicing its external debt. GDP growth slowed to less than 1
percent.
50.   By mid-1986, however, the situation had changed. The new Government had taken important
remedial actions which reduced the public sector deficit, improved interest and exchange rate
management, and slowed inflation. The Bank based its decision to release second tranche on the
Government's improved stabilization effort combined with the agreed corrective measures to deal
with the non-compliance problems faced by the second tranche. It could be argued that once the
second tranche was released, the Bank had no way of supporting the sustainability of the corrective
measures agreed with the Government. However, from the beginning the structural reform program
was conceived as a process that would require more than one SAL, so that in deciding to release the
second tranche the Bank was, in effect, making a judgement that the Government would maintain
progress and deepen the adjustment effort under a follow-up operation. The Bank also expected that
the Government's stabilization measures would improve macroeconomic performance. The public
sector deficit to GDP was projected to fall to about 5.5 percent in 1986 from 7 percent in 1985, the
current account deficit was to decline to 3.6 percent of GDP from 8 percent in 1985, and GDP was
expected to grow by about 4.5 percent in 1986. These expectations were by and large confirmed
by 1986 actual results.
51.   An assessment of the results obtained under SAL I depends necessarily on the yardstick used
to measure performance and the particular circumstances of the country. Compared with later
reform efforts in Latin America, and with the conditionality of policy-based loans which supported
such efforts, it could be argued that the overall objectives of SAL I were too timid an attempt to
remedy a situation which required much stronger and quicker action, particularly concerning the
needed changes in the trade regime-where protection levels were still far too high-and the reform
of the public sector, which failed to address the need for overall institutional reform. Two factors,
however, argue against such a negative assessment. First, the development of Costa Rica's society
and political structures since the 1940s suggests that change can only occur gradually and through
a complex consensus-building process. A more ambitious or faster-paced reform program would
have been unacceptable or unsustainable, especially since SAL I was the first stage of what was to
be a longer-term reform effort. Second, even at this gradual pace, program preparation and
implementation were adversely affected by the electoral cycle.
52.   Concerning trade policy reform, there is no doubt that nominal protection rates of, for
instance 70 percent, were far too high, and that the spread of tariff protection for final consumer
goods was too wide. But it is also true that the changes in the trade regime achieved during 1985-86
initiated foreign trade liberalization in Costa Rica providing momentum for foreign trade
liberalization in other Central American countries and an outward-oriented reform of the CACM



- 17 -
accord observed in the late 1980s and early 1990s.7 With Costa Rica playing a leading role, the
countries of the region started to adopt outward-oriented trading policies, taking decisions that were
politically difficult to adopt in a multi-national framework, and that were equally difficult within a
democratic system such as that prevailing in Costa Rica. Trade reform was a major achievement
of SAL I.
53.   Concerning reform  of the public sector, SAL I conditionality followed the trend on
institutional matters then prevailing in the Bank-to focus only on the few institutions or processes
which had been identified as priority problem areas. The Bank (and the Government), however,
failed to take into account that for increasing the efficiency and reducing the size of the public sector,
it is not enough to reform selected Government entities, privatize some enterprises, freeze public
employment and reduce the real wages of public employees. In fact, some of these measures may
further reduce efficiency levels when they lead to salary compression and erosion in the incentives
necessary to attract qualified staff. By focusing on the symptoms the reform limited, to some extent,
the costs of the public sector inefficiencies and some of its financial imbalances but only temporarily.
Nevertheless, it is clear that a more comprehensive approach to public sector reform would have
required considerably more preparation and analysis of its role, size and structure, even if there had
been the political will to undertake a more ambitious reform effort. Moreover, placing the need for
public employment freeze in the policy agenda was an important achievement, despite the setbacks
in implementation. It is likely that public employment would have been much higher otherwise.
54.   Despite its shortcomings, SAL I can be considered as a critical first stage in the process of
reforming the structure of the economy. Some reforms (e.g., trade policy, reduction of costly
practices by CNP) were deepened during the implementation of SAL II and beyond. Other important
policy changes were initiated with SAL II support, including reform of the banking system and of
agricultural policy. The stage of the structural adjustment process supported by SAL I can,
therefore, be considered as breaking point with a past development strategy characterized by over-
protection of import-substitution activities, by excessive Government intervention, and by the
resulting distortions in the overall structure of economic incentives. Looked at in this light, and
taking into account national and regional political constraints, the limited conditionality of SAL I,
as well as the Bank decisions to release its second tranche and to process SAL II, seem on balance
justified. This was based on a judgment, certainly risky at the time, that there were good prospects
for the continuation and deepening of the reform process.
7 See The World Bak, April 1992, Economic Polcies and Peifomance wnder Alternative Trade Regimns: Latin
America during the 1980s, by Noguis J. nd S. Gulati, IAtin America and the Caibbean Technical Deprtment,
Regional Studies Program, Report No. 27; and Noguds J. and R. Quintanilla, 1992, Latin America's Integration
and the Multilateral Trading Systan, in De Mlo J. and A. Panagariya, eds. New Dimensions in Regional
ntaotion, The World Bank and Center for Economic Policy Research.



- 18 -
IV. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
A. THE PERIOD BETWEEN SAL I AND SAL II
55.   After SAL I second tranche was released in June 1986, both the Government and the Bank
expected to process quickly a second adjustment operation, expecting that full compliance would be
reached in the process.  During the following six months, the Bank continued to monitor
implementation of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, particularly aspects related to
reforms supported by SAL I. Progress was slower than expected in some areas, such as the
exemption of final consumer goods from the 3 percent general import surcharge, which by the end
of 1986 had not been approved by the Legislative Assembly. Similarly, the 1987 budget envisaged
an increase in public employment-instead of the reduction required to gradually return to the 1984
level, The planned improvement in CNP's financial position was being achieved at a slower pace
than previously expected. And there was a moratorium on arrears of some agricultural producers
to public banks.
56.   The Government, however, indicated repeatedly to the Bank-in visits of its officials to
Washington, during Bank missions, and through correspondence and telephone contacts-that it
continued committed to the objectives of the program, and also requested repeatedly a second SAL
from the Bank. Simultaneously, the Government was holding negotiations with the IMF for a new
Stand-by Arrangement-which was finally approved by the IMF Board in April 1987-with
commercial banks (on debt rescheduling) and with bilateral donors (Japan and the Netherlands) on
their possible participation in a co-financing facility linked to the proposed SAL II.
57.   After an April 1987 Mission concluded that "there was general agreement (with Government)
on the overall policy approach for a second phase of economic adjustment", the Bank sent a SAL II
preparation mission to Costa Rica on May 25. On August 27 the Region submitted the IM for SAL
-- to the Operations Committee, which on September 4 authorized its appraisal, on the basis that SAL
II would support a deepening of the reforms initiated under SAL I, and would also aim at reforming
agricultural policy and the banking system. By that time, the IMF Managing Director had cleared
(subject to completion of the required financing package) submission to the Board of a new Stand-by
Arrangement.
58.   It should be noted that the economy was improving substantially at the time of SAL II
appraisal, although balance of payments and inflationary pressures were increasing. As a result of
large real exchange rate devaluations (40 percent between mid-1985 and December 1986), and non-
traditional exports were increasing rapidly, especially to third markets, albeit relying on very high
fiscal incentives. By end-1987, the non-financial public sector deficit had virtually disappeared, and
the consolidated deficit (including Central Bank losses) had been reduced to 3.5 percent of GDP.
GDP had grown for two consecutive years, 5.5 percent in 1986 and 4.8 percent in 1987, after a
weak performance of 0.7 growth in 1985. On the other hand, imports increased very rapidly in 1987
(24 percent in real terms) with the result that the current account deficit reached over 9 percent of
GDP, which was clearly unsustainable. Inflation had accelerated to 20 percent by mid-1987 a rate
that was reduced by year-end to about 16 percent, on a December-to-December basis.



- 19 -
59.   The main actions taken by the Government during implementation of SAL I and the
preparation of SAL II, which were considered sufficient to justify presenting SAL II to the Board,
are listed in the second column of the SAL II policy matrix (see Annex 3), and can be summarized
as follows: (i) Trade policy: implementation of the first phase rationalization of the regional
CACM tariff regime, including reduction of nominal tariffs below 70 percent, with some exceptions;
implementation of a crawling peg exchange rate regime; implementation of the new export incentive
system; establishment of privately administered trade zones in 1985; application for membership in
GATT; and opening of air cargo transportation to foreign carriers. (ii) Agriculture policy: freezing
of nominal support prices to producers of beans and corn during 1987; liberalization of rice prices
in 1987; and transfer of rice import rights to the private sector. (iii) Public sector management:
1987-88 revenue increases equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP per year; stricter control of budget
allocation by the Finance Ministry; and approval in 1984 of CODESA's divestiture program; and
(iv) Financial sector: liberalization of interest rates and credit allocation controls; reduction of
subsidized credit to 16 percent of total lending; submission to the Assembly of draft laws to relax
administrative controls on public banks, strengthen supervision of financial institutions, and
encourage the operation of securities markets; and authorization to private banks to intermediate
financial assets of 180-90 days maturity.
60.   The Executive Directors approved SAL II on December 13, 1988, and the corresponding loan
agreement was signed on December 16. The Loan, however, did not become effective until eleven
months later (November 16, 1989), mainly because of delayed approval by the Legislative Assembly.
During this period, the Government and the Bank also completed negotiations with Japan's OECF,
which provided the equivalent of $100 million in co-financing for SAL II.
B. SECOND PHASE OF THE STRUCrURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
61.   Taking into consideration the lessons of experience from SAL I design and implementation,
the second phase of the Structural Adjustment Program, supported by SAL II, continued to attach
priority to trade policy reform and added financial intermediation and agricultural policies, with a
view to advancing further the reform of the incentives system initiated under SAL I. Likewise, the
improvement  of  public  finances-required  for  both  stabilization  and  development
purposes-continued to be a main objective in SAL II, although as in SAL I, the reforms envisaged
under the program did not include the institutional changes that would have been required to achieve
and sustain the targeted financial improvement. In agriculture, there was a clear realization that a
redefinition of CNP's role was required both to improve agricultural incentives and to reduce fiscal
pressures. Since the inefficiency of the largely state-owned banking sector was clearly a major
impediment to the sustainable, market-oriented development of Costa Rica's economy, its reform was
added under SAL II as another main objective of the structural adjustment process. The main policy
reforms included in this second stage of the program were summarized as follows in the President's
Report: "(i) continuing with the reform of the trade regime and export incentives to promote
increased exports to third markets; (ii) additional steps to increase public savings, reduce the overall
public sector deficit (including Central Bank losses) and increase the effectiveness and efficiency of
the public sector investment program; (iii) improve the ability of the financial system to mobilize
financial resources; and (iv) rationalize pricing, marketing and subsidy policies in the agricultural
sector.' As indicated later on, in the same Report, the program would also include measures aimed
at improving external debt management. The key reforms envisaged under SAL II are listed below.



- 20 -
a) Trade Pocy
62.   The trade policy measures in the program aimed at deepening the reforms supported by
SAL I, including:
a) Actions designed to further reduce the average rate and dispersion of the tariff system.
Thus, over a three-year period (textiles, apparel and shoes would take five years), all
tariffs were to be adjusted to a range of 540 percent, with the exception of non-
competing essential goods such as medicines, which would have a tariff of 1 percent, and
some non-competing final goods (primarily luxury goods), which would be subject to
tariffs in excess of 40 percent.  Within this framework, the tariffs on raw
materials/intermediates and capital goods would have a ceiling of 20 percent and a floor
of 5 percent.
b) Reform of the export incentive system, through:
i) An export contract scheme, under which individual exporters could obtain income tax
exemption on profits generated by non-traditional exports, exemption from all import
taxes on goods used in the production of non-traditional exports to third markets, and
temporary Tax Rebate Certificates (CATs);
ii) Elimination of CATs as a general export incentive, limiting compensatory subsidies
to cases where domestic charges exceeded international ones for certain expenses
incurred in the export process, such as port charges and costs of electricity and fuel.
(The exact nature of these subsidies was still to be specified as part of the then
ongoing GATT negotiations.);
iii) Extension of export incentives to producers of inputs for export production,
and-through drawback certificates-to producers for both export and domestic
markets of final export goods, and to producers of inputs used by producers selling
to both markets;
iv) Establishment of new free trade zones, to be administered by the private sector along
the lines already used in the Cartago Free Trade Zone, which had been established
in 1985;
v) Establishment of a 'one-stop window' for all export requirements; and
vi) Opening of international air transportation to competition by authorizing several
foreign airlines to carry commercial cargo to and from Costa Rica.
b) Public Finances
63.   The Government had approved in November 1987 a tax package designed to increase fiscal
revenues by 1.3 percent of GDP. It had also cut expenditures by 0.5 percent of GDP in 1987 and
1 percent in 1988, including the reduction of CNP's deficit to 0.1 percent of GDP in 1988. The



- 21 -
Government had likewise prepared a 1988-90 public sector investment program which, after some
agreed modifications, was judged by the Bank to be fully consistent with the Structural Adjustment
Program. These actions were expected to result in a surplus of the non-financial public sector of 0.4
percent of GDP in 1988 and 1.0 percent in 1989, and in public sector savings of no less than 5.7
percent of GDP in 1988, and no less than an average of 6.0 percent for 1988 and 1989.
64.   The Government program agreed with the Bank also included two actions: (i) Faced with
substantial problems in the management of public finances caused by extensive earmarking of tax
revenues, the Government restated its commitment to avoid proposing new legislation establishing
earmarked tax revenues; and (ii) By November 1988, 36 out of the original CODESA 41 enterprises
had been divested. The Government committed itself to sell two more firms, and 40 percent of the
shares of a third one.
c) Financial Intermediation
65.   The efficiency of the country's financial system in resource mobilization had remained for
many years at a low level owing mainly-in the view of Bank staff as stated in the SAL II
President's Report-to three problems: (i) the large non-performing portfolio of public banks; (ii)
the lack of competition in the banking sector; and (iii) weak supervision and control of financial
intermediaries. To address these problems, the second phase of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program included measures to:
a) gradually allow private banks to accept 180-90 days deposits;
b) reduce the share of loans overdue by more than 180 days in the public banks' portfolio
to no more than 5 percent and 3 percent by the end of 1988 and 1989, respectively;
c) avoid any future generalized domestic debt rescheduling of the type imposed by law in
May 1987;
d) maintain outstanding subsidized credit at the nominal December 31, 1986 level, with
seasonal variations of no more than 5 percent; and
e) require the Superintendency of Banks to issue regulations aimed at:
i) allowing banks to charge penalty interest rates on debts not paid on their maturities;
ii) prohibiting banks from registering as income interest accrued on loans that had been
past due for more than 180 days; and
iii) instructing banks to have their annual financial statements audited by external
auditors, and to publish such audited statements in newspapers with nation-wide
circulation.



- 22 -
d) Agricultural Policy
66.    The agricultural policy conditionality of SAL II aimed at further reducing the role of CNP,
and at rationalizing gradually the price of basic grains. During 1986-88, the Government had already
eliminated CNP's role in the rice subsector, entrusting the marketing of rice to an association of
private producers and distributors, which could import any amount of rice needed to satisfy domestic
demand. The agreed measures had the following specific objectives: (i) eliminate CNP's monopoly
to import and market beans and corn; (ii) decrease CNP's subsidies by unifying domestic consumer
and producer prices; and (iii) reduce the divergence between domestic producer support prices and
international prices for basic grains.
67.   The program envisaged a gradual reduction during 1988-90 of the spread between domestic
support prices and the five-year average of the international prices for rice, beans and corn. After
the planned reductions in the minimum guaranteed prices during that period, it was expected that
such spread would not exceed 40 percent by 1990. It was likewise agreed that by 1990, quantitative
restrictions on imports of rice, corn and beans would be eliminated, with CNP's role limited to
purchasing corn and beans from small farmers.
e) Second and Third Tranche Release Conditions
68.   Given the gradual approach followed in several of the reforms supported by SAL II, it was
decided to disburse the loan in three tranches. The first tranche was to be released upon loan
effectiveness. Release of the second and third tranches was expected to take place in July 1989 and
January 1990, respectively. A general requisite included in the loan agreement for releasing the
second and third tranches was that the Bank would have to be satisfied with the overall progress
achieved by the Government in carrying out the program supported by the Loan.
69.   Specific conditions for release of the second tranche are listed in more detail in the third
column of the SAL II policy matrix (Annex 2) and included: (i) three equal semi-annual tariff
reductions; (ii) reduction of import prior deposits; (iii) satisfactory operation of the new export
incentive system; (iv) reform of the system of producer and consumer prices for beans, corn, and
rice; (v) elimination of CNP's monopoly on imports of basic grains; (vi) reductions in the public
commercial banks' overdue portfolio; (vii) freezing, in nominal terms, of the total subsidized credit
granted by public commercial banks; (viii) measures aimed at increasing the efficiency of the banking
sector and at strengthening the supervision of its operations by the Superintendency of Banks; (vix)
agreed public sector savings targets for 1988 and 1989; (x) implementation in the 1988 budget of the
agreed public investment program; and (xi) avoiding proposing new legislation establishing
earmarked revenues.
70.   Specific conditions for release of the third tranche, also listed in the third column of the SAL
II policy matrix, included: further actions related to tariff reductions; prior import deposits;
producer support prices for basic grains; the public banks' overdue portfolio; public sector savings;
and the public investment program.



- 23 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
a) Effectiveness
71.   SAL II became effective on November 15, 1989, eight months after the originally planned
date and eleven months after Board approval, owing mainly to delays in the approval of the Loan
by the Legislative Assembly, which was published in the Official Gazette on October 17, 1989.
Several factors seem to have contributed to this delay:
a) Lack of prior agreement between the Government and the main opposition party on
the need for fast approval of the Loan by the Assembly, which was particularly
difficult given that 1989 was a pre-election year;
b) The economic deterioration, particularly concerning public finances, which
accelerated in mid-1989 and which seems to have distracted both the Administration
and the Legislative Assembly from taking urgent action on SAL II; and
c) The added complication of Japanese cofinancing of SAL II. In this respect, an
amendment to the Loan Agreement, to add an optional cross-default clause with
Japan's OECF, was signed on December 4, 1989.
b) Compliance with Second Tranche Conditionality
72.   During 1989, even before effectiveness, several Bankl missions reviewed the progress being
made on second tranche conditions. Progress was considerably slower than expected at the time of
Board approval, when it was planned to release the second tranche by July 1989. A Bank mission
in October 1989 concluded that the following conditions had not been met: (i) establishing a new
export incentive system; (ii) allowing private traders to import basic grains, and establishing an
auction system for import licenses of those products; (iii) reducing commercial bank loans in arrears
for more than 180 days to less than 5 percent of their portfolio; and (iv) prohibiting commercial
banks from registering as income the interest accrued on loans that were past due for more than 180
days. The mission also concluded that all other conditions in the trade, agricultural and financial
intermediation policy areas, as well as all conditions on public finances (including the agreed increase
in public savings) had been met satisfactorily.
73.   The Back-to-Office Report of a February-March, 1990 supervision mission offers a more
complete and worrisome picture of the situation. Although some of the conditions identified as
lacking compliance in October 1989 had been met, the overall economic situation had deteriorated
sharply. The report pointed out that 'the major problem of the Costa Rican economy today is the
deterioration of the fiscal accounts". The December 31, 1989 IMF fiscal targets had not been met;
Central Government expenditures on wages, pensions and export incentives had been higher than
expected; tariffs of public services lagged behind increasing costs; and the consolidated non-financial
public sector had registered a deficit of about 2.7 percent of GDP in 1989, instead of the planned
0.5 percent surplus. Although, somewhat surprisingly, the March 1990 report does not evaluate
compliance with the second tranche public savings condition, the data presented in that report was
clearly inconsistent with the October 1989 conclusion that "the 1988 level of public savings, when



- 24 -
taking the broad definition of the public sector, was kept above the minimum level agreed upon in
the loan agreement". The 1988 agreed level was 5.7 percent of GDP, while according to subsequent
information, the level actually achieved was 4.95 percent.
74.   The deteriorating fiscal situation also contributed to a 20 percent increase in imports, and to
a 1989 trade deficit of $380 million, in spite of continuing growth in non-traditional exports. In view
of the fiscal and balance of payments situation, the Region concluded that progress in implementation
of the overall adjustment program was not satisfactory. Based on this, and the lack of compliance
with two specific second tranche conditions (the reform of export incentives and the import of basic
grains by the private sector), the Regional Vice President informed Senior Bank Management on
April 10, 1990 that he did not recommend releasing the second tranche. The Bank decided to release
the second tranche only after actions were taken, by a new administration (May 1990), to correct the
fiscal and balance of payments situation (see paras. 75-76), there was a new IMF Stand-by
Agreement (see paras. 77-78), there was agreement on solving the audit problems of SAL I and
SAL II (see paras. 78-79) and the Board approved the request to waive the condition on public
savings and revise the calendar dates due to delays in implementing the Loan (see par. 79).
75.   SAL II and the IMF Stand-by Arrangement were linked to a package of bilateral assistance
and to a debt reduction agreement with commercial banks, which included a buy-back of most of
Costa Rica's commercial debt. For this purchase to take place, Costa Rica needed $210 million of
external funds by May 7. The lack of compliance with the Stand-by Arrangement and with the
SAL II second tranche conditions, and the corresponding postponement in the release of IMF and
Bank resources, made it impossible for Costa Rica to obtain on schedule all the envisaged bilateral
funds and to comply with the May 7 buy-back deadline. The Bank and the IMF, however, actively
supported the process. The buy-back deadline was then extended to May 21, when Costa Rica's
buy-back agreement with the commercial banks was finalized, covering 98 percent of the outstanding
debt with those institutions. By that time, although Bank and IMF resources had not been released,
Costa Rica had obtained 75 percent of the funds required for the buy-back scheme from other
bilateral and multilateral sources, financing the remaining 25 percent from its own foreign exchange
reserves.
76.   The fiscal deterioration and the lack of compliance with second tranche conditionality and the
Stand-by Arrangement, took place in the midst of an electoral process, which ended in a victory for
the main opposition party, and the subsequent inauguration of the Calder6n Administration in May
1990. In retrospect, it seems clear that the Government and the Bank underestimated the difficulties
associated with maintaining fiscal restraint in a pre-election year.
77.   The Calderdn Administration acted quickly to correct the situation by increasing taxes,
adjusting prices of public services, accelerating the pace of devaluation, and tightening monetary
policy. Economic performance in 1990, however, remained worrisome. The deficit of the
consolidated public sector (including Central Bank losses) was 5 percent of GDP, only slightly lower
than in 1989. Meanwhile, the trade deficit increased from 7.3 percent in 1989 to 11.2 percent in
1990, and the annual (December-to-December) inflation rate increased from 10 to 27 percent. The
expansionary fiscal policy had contributed to a high (5.7 percent) GDP growth rate in 1989 at
constant prices, which decined to 3.6 percent in 1990. Given the magnitude of the adjustments that



- 25 -
would be needed to correct the existing macroeconomic and financial disequilibria, and the
underlying structural causes of such disequilibria, it was clear that growth would be lower in 1991.
78.   In January 1991, a memorandum of the Country Operations Division Chief indicated that
public sector savings was one of the policy areas in which second tranche conditionality had not been
complied with and would recommend waiving the SAL II condition in that respect, provided that the
new IMF program made it reasonable to expect good public savings performance. The same
memorandum also noted that a new conditionality issue had emerged: prior import deposits had been
raised to 70 percent, far in excess of the 30 percent maximum level stipulated in SAL II and made
reference to the Costa Rican request for a third SAL, which would focus on reform of the public
sector and the pension system, in addition to having a social sector component and continuing
support for trade and financial sector reforms.
79.   A March 1991 supervision mission concluded that: (i) the agreed (but not yet in effect) new
IMF Stand-by Arrangement was aimed at achieving acceptable public savings levels, thus justifying
waiving the SAL II condition in this respect (the IMF Board approved the Stand-by on April 8); (ii)
all the other compliance problems referred to above had been solved; and (iii) a new problem, that
had been detected several months before, was still unresolved: the lack of compliance with SAL I
and SAL II audit covenants, particularly with respect to the audit of the participation of the public
banks by external auditors. The supervision mission proposed releasing the second tranche as soon
as a satisfactory solution had been reached on the audit issue.
80.   After agreement had been reached on the audit issue (although the required audit reports had
not yet been received by the Bank - see para. 82), Bank Management recommended to the Board to
waive the condition on public savings and revise the calendar dates due to the delays in processing
the Loan. Since agreement had been reached on a reasonable solution, which the Government was
expected to comply with by third tranche, the request did not mention the problems related to the
audit covenants. The Executive Directors approved both waivers, and the second tranche was
released on July 1, 1991, two years later than originally planned. The third SAL II tranche was
expected to be released 4-6 months later.
c) Compliance with Third Tranche Conditionality
81.   Compliance with third tranche conditionality was much better than with second tranche,
although most measures were adopted substantially later than envisaged, when SAL II was approved.
The Bank sent three supervision missions after release of the second tranche, in November and
December 1991, and January/February 1992. After dealing with temporary deviations from the
agreed conditions-such as those related to CATs and to a 1991 import surcharge-the
January/February mission reported that all third tranche conditions had been met, with the exception
of the public savings condition, which had already been waived together with the respective second
tranche condition. In fact, the third tranche could have been released earlier except for the lack of
compliance with SAL I and SAL II audit covenants.



- 26 -
82.   The audit covenants issues can be summarized as follows:
a) According to the SAL H Loan Agreement, the Government should have sent to the Bank
an external auditors' report within four months after the end of each fiscal year in which
lan disbursements had been made. The first report under SAL II was due by April 30,
1990. On January 10, 1990 the Bank sent a cable reminding the Government of the need
to comply with this covenant, and in April 1990 sent the LAC Regional audit specialist
to Costa Rica for the same purpose. After more Bank requests, the audit reports were
received in October 1991.
b) Likewise, a similar SAL I audit covenant had not been complied with, but this was only
realized in June 1989, when the LAC Regional audit specialist indicated in a
memorandum that there was no indication in LAC files that the SAL I audit reports for
1985 and 1986 had been received by the Bank. The audit specialist agreed with the
Central Bank in April 1990 on the procedures to be followed for the audits of both SALs,
and reported to the Bank on April 30, 1990, that he had inspected 'the SOEs [Statement
of Expenditures] and supporting documentation, and found it is well filed and that proper
documentation is in order in the different departments of the Central Bank' for both
Loans. He added that he did not expect "any serious problem at the time of locating the
supporting evidences on the part of the private audit firm."
c) In January 1992 the Bank reviewed the audit reports received in October 1991, and to
follow up on the information included therein, the LAC Regional audit specialist visited
Costa Rica, who found that: (i) the supporting documentation and accounting records for
the SOEs submitted to the Bank for disbursements under the SAL I second tranche could
not be found; (ii) the lack of that documentation had made it impossible for the auditors
to audit the SAL I second tranche; and (iii) about $6 million of disbursements of the SAL
IT first tranche were not eligible for financing, because they corresponded to imports
made before the period specified in the Loan Agreement.
d) By failing to take timely action, the only legal remedy left to the Bank in connection with
the SAL I Loan agreement would have been the acceleration of loan maturities.
83.   The audit issue was solved by amending in February 1992 the SAL II Loan Agreement,
adding the receipt of the following information as conditions for third tranche release:
a) a supplemental audit report for the disbursements of SAL I second tranche, based upon
$43 million equivalent in new SOEs submitted by the Central Bank;
b) a supplemental audit report for SAL II first tranche based on $6,033,193 equivalent in
new SOEs submitted by the Central Bank;
c) the audit report for SAL II second tranche (which according to the Loan Agreement was
not due until April 30, 1992); and
d) a pre-audit of the SOEs required to disburse SAL II third tranche.



- 27 -
84.   The processing of the loan amendment referred to above, and the subsequent compliance with
the additional audit requirements, further delayed release of the third tranche, which took place on
April 1, 1992, more than two years after the date envisaged at the time of Board approval.
d) Overal Performance
85.   Owing partly to the political environment, the second phase of the Structural Adjustment
Program supported by SAL II faced initially serious difficulties, which delayed its implementation
for about two years. However, planned reforms were eventually carried out (see Annex 3 for
details), in some cases beyond the agreed targets, and macroeconomic performance improved
substantially in 1991. The consolidated public sector deficit was reduced from 5 percent of GDP
in 1990 to 2 percent in 1991; monetary expansion was kept within strict limits; exports increased by
10 percent; imports declined by 5 percent; foreign exchange reserves increased by over $300 million;
and inflation had started to decline by end-1991. Overall economic growth, meanwhile, declined
from 3.6 percent in 1990 to 2.1 percent in 1991, as an unavoidable short-term effect of the
stabilization effort.
86.   By the time the third tranche was released, the Government had met or exceeded all trade
policy conditions, including: a) the establishment of a new export incentive system; b) the reduction
of the level of tariff protection to a maximum of 40 percent, with a few specified exceptions (actual
tariff reductions went beyond the requirements of third tranche conditionality); and c) the elimination
of prior import deposits (a decision that also went beyond the reduction to 10 percent of the import
values which had been agreed as a third tranche release condition). In early 1992, moreover, the
Government adopted several important decisions beyond what was required under SAL II, including
a major deregulation of the foreign exchange market and the announcement of a further lowering of
tariff protection to a maximum of 20 percent by April 1993. The Government met all conditions
related to rmancial intermediation and agricultural pricing policies, and to the agreed limits on
public investment. A further liberalization of imports and domestic prices of basic grains was also
announced in January 1992.
87.   As with SAL I, the most important shortcoming of SAL II referred to the required reform
of the public sector. Although the Government complied with the condition of not proposing new
earmarking of taxes, it failed to achieve the agreed increases in public savings-a condition that the
Bank decided to waive. In agreeing to this condition, the Government and the Bank had dealt with
a macro target-the overall size of public savings-without identifying all the specific policy
measures required to achieve it, and the structural reforms needed to sustain the desired improvement
over the longer term. As happened under SAL I with the public employment conditions, the macro
target was not met, and the required policy reforms were not carried out.
88.   Despite its shortcomings SAL II provided continuation in the process of economic reforms
started in SAL I and initiated reforms in critical areas such as the banking system and agricultural
policy. The continuation of foreign trade liberalization under SAL II facilitated the consolidation of
foreign trade reform. The modest reforms in the banking system initiated policy changes in financial
intermediation and contributed significantly to broadening the scope of reforms of the financial
system essential to support the structural transformation of productive sectors. Agricultural policy
changes reduced price distortions allowing for more efficient patterns of production and extended



- 28 -
private sector participation in activities till then dominated by CNP. Reforms envisioned in SAL II
were carried out, in some areas beyond agreed targets, macroeconomic performance imnproved,
foreign trade and private sector activity expanded.
89.   In summary, SAL II had substantial positive effects in supporting the consolidation of a
comprehensive trade policy reforrn program, and imnportant reforms in financial intermediation and
agricultural pricing policies. On the other hand, as in SAL I, the Government and the Bank failed
to deal adequately with the pressing need for public sector reform. Despite this shortcoming-and
of the regrettable lack of proper supervision of the audit requirements referred to above-the overall
results of SAL II were, on balance, positive. The decisions to approve SAL II and to release its
second and third tranches were, in the context of the overall adjustment process, justified.
V. RELATIONSHIP WITH GOVERNMENT STABILIZATION POLICIES AND IMF
90.   The Bank's overall support for Costa Rica's structural adjustment process was closely linked
throughout the 1980s and early 1990s with the Government's stabilization programs supported by
the IMF. Given the seriousness of the financial problems faced by Costa Rica during this period,
the Bank, while avoiding explicit cross-conditionality with the IMF, repeatedly took into account
stabilization performance, the prospects to maintain and deepen the extent of reforms with a long run
view of the process of structural reforms. This approach allowed the Bank and Costa Rica, working
in close consultation with the IMF, to correct some important flaws in program design and
implementation and maintain the adjustment program. At the same time, the Bank and the IMF
played a critical role in supporting Costa Rica's efforts to deal with the external debt crisis.
91.   In 1980, when Costa Rica first requested a SAL, the Bank postponed its decision until an
acceptable stabilization program was in place. In late 1982, a Stand-by Arrangement was agreed
with the IMF and shortly after the Bank decided to start processing the EDL which had no policy
conditionality and initiate the preparation of SAL I. These efforts supported the measures taken by
the Government to deal with the external debt problem.
92.   The processing of SAL I was substantially delayed owing mainly to unsatisfactory
performance under the stabilization program. It was not until March 15, 1985 that a new IMF
Stand-by was approved, followed one month later by the Board approval of SAL I. These marked
the initiation of structural adjustment and a post-crisis stabilization program. A gradual process of
structural reforms was launched, however, the complexities of the public sector's underlying
weaknesses contributed to the difficulties maintaining the Government's stabilization and adjustment
efforts.
93.   The preparation and processing of SAL II was carried out as planned since the conception
of SAL I. The approach in solving the difficulties of second tranche release of SAL I (June 1988)
to some extent assumed full compliance with the adjustment program would be reached in the
process. SAL II was approved by the Board in November 1988. Implementation of SAL II
improved though public finance problems reported by the IMF in October 1988 remained. These
problems caused important delays in the implementation of public sector policies of SAL II. The



- 29 -
second tranche was released in July 1991, more than two and a half years after Board approval, with
a waiver on public savings target.
94.   It should be noted, however, that SAL II initiated modest but critical reforms in the banking
system. SAL II addressed the practices in the banking system contributing to Central Bank losses,
a significant component of the combined public sector deficit, and financial intermediation limiting
adjustment in the productive sectors. The political economy of the banking system limited the extent
of SAL II reforms of this sector but it is now recognized that these contributed significantly to
broadening the scope of reforms of the financial system.'
95.   The period to implement the SALs took longer than initially anticipated by the Bank. The
process posed difficult trade-offs and decisions by the Bank and intensive consultations with the
Government to identify critical policy reforms and to reach the consensus needed for Legislative
approval, required by the Constitution, of the programs and their implementation. The experience
of the two SALs, however, indicates that reaching consensus lengthen the period to initiate and
implement policy reforms but prevented reversals when conditionality was well defined and
appropriate.
VI. EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM AND BANK SUPPORT
A. OVERALL APPROACH
96.   Although the 1980-82 crisis prompted a reassessment of the overall economic model and a
realization that placing Costa Rica back on a course of sustained growth would require a fundamental
reorientation of the development strategy, the Government's thinking had not progressed beyond the
articulation of general reform principles. At that time it was also highly doubtful that the CACM
trade reforms would prove to be politically feasible. Moreover, during the early part of the 1980s
the Government remained preoccupied with stabilization issues and its external debt problem.
During 1980-83, the Bank was just beginning to develop its approach to structural adjustment
lending, both analytically and operationally, and there was little practical experience to draw from
for the design of successful structural adjustment programs. Thus, it is not surprising that the Bank's
initial advice seemed to be somewhat tentative and lacking an overall, longer-term framework to
guide the adjustment process. The 1981 Initiating Memorandum (IM) for an Export Sector Loan
proposed several stages of Bank assistance to the structural adjustment process starting with an ESL
to be followed by a series of SALs. While the IM recognized the need for trade policy reform and
for substantial institutional changes in the public sector the proposed adjustment strategy was limited
to a review (and not a reform) of the trade regime, tariff protection in particular, in the first SAL
and improvements (and not substantial institutional changes) in public sector management.
I Gonzalez-Vega, C. Mach 1990, "Polfticas de Intermediaci6n Financiera, Seminario sobre Polfticas Econ6micau
en Costs Ri&, San Jod, Costa Rica.



- 30 -
97.   In the immediate aftermath of the 1982 external debt crisis, the Bank focused on determining
the external debt situation of Costa Rica and sought mechanisms to support Costa Rica's efforts in
reestablishing a more manageable balance of payments. The EDL approved in 1983, without any
policy conditionality, provided financing for imported inputs required by exporters, and its main
objective was to provide bridging balance of payments support while the Bank and the Government
worked to define a more comprehensive structural adjustment program. It was not until 1985, when
SAL I was approved, that the structural adjustment program started to come into focus.
B. MAJOR PROGRAM COMPONENTS
98.   Export promotion and trade policy reform constituted the first critical element of the
structural reform process and also the area in which Costa Rica's achievements have been more
positive and sustained. Although the initial reform measures, especially in terms of reducing
protection, were far from ambitious and, because of the need to ensure consistency with the regional
tariff reform process, lacking in specificity, the approach adopted in the SALs had two important
consequences: (i) it began the process of transforming the economy from an inward to an outward
orientation; and (ii) it served as a catalyst for the rest of Central America.  Under SAL III, the
Government expects to have brought most tariffs within a range of 20-10 percent by December 1994
and to have eliminated all import and export licensing requirements. The anti-export bias which
characterized the economy in the early 1980s will have, if not disappeared fully, at least ceased to
be a serious obstacle to efficient economic development. Moreover, it appears likely that within
CACM Costa Rica will continue to advocate further reform with the ultimate objective of reaching
a flat CET.
99.   Public sector reform constituted the second critical element of the structural reform process.
In this area, however, performance was mixed, both by the Government and the Bank. Although
the Governrment and the Bank recognized that the inefficiency and overextension of the public sector
were at the root of Costa Rica's basic economic problems, the Structural Adjustment Program failed
to develop and carry through a comprehensive public sector reform program. The reform program
was relatively successful in dealing with the parastatal sector and the public sector investment
program, but failed to tackle the Central Government itself. Performance in terms of privatizing
CODESA enterprises was impressive,' especially given the size of CODESA's holdings and the
kinds of problems privatization efforts have encountered in other adjusting countries. In Costa Rica,
the privatization process appears to have been relatively noncontroversial and fast. Following
adoption in 1984 of the law to divest most of CODESA's 41 enterprises, by January 1988 only 5
companies remained in its portfolio.10 The program was also successful in streamlining the public
investment progran, improving investment planning capabilities, and keeping the overall size of
public investment below agreed levels.
9 The privatiztion of CODESA enterprises was initiated and carried out to a large extent with USAID technical
and financial assistnc.
10 It is surprising to find that Costa Rica's successful experience is rarely acknowledged or analyzed in the Bank's
extensive literature on divestfitur.



- 31 -
100.  One of the major shortcomings was the lack of a comprehensive framework for public sector
reform that would include the Central Government. Instead of dealing with the underlying causes
of public sector inefficiency and fiscal pressures, the Bank largely focused on aggregate targets
(employment freeze, CNP losses and public savings levels). This would have been understandable
during SAL I, when it could be argued that the Region was essentially following what were then
general Bank practices, but seems less justifiable in SAL II. Instead of learning from the failure of
the employment targets in SAL I, in SAL II the Bank maintained its approach of setting macro
targets but chose instead to target the level of public savings, which in the event were not met.
101. It is interesting to note that the Bank adopted a sounder approach in dealing with CNP losses.
While SAL I was initially concerned only with reducing CNP losses, lack of compliance with the
50 percent reduction in CNP losses forced the Bank to focus on CNP's activities. Thus, for second
tranche the Bank accepted the Government's decision to remove CNP from the marketing of sorghum
and rice. Prior actions for SAL II included the freezing of support prices for beans and corn and
the liberalization of rice prices. SAL II then logically focused on the wider issue of sector efficiency
and the role of the public sector in agricultural marketing. SAL II supported measures to reduce
public subsidies and increase the role of the private sector in agricultural marketing, rather than
repeating the targeting of CNP losses, which had the effect of reducing CNP losses but also
improved incentives and efficiency in the sector.
102. No such change in focus for the Central Government was in evidence in SAL II. Moreover,
although the reform of the state component in the TAL supported the functioning of a bi-partisan
Commission to provide overall guidance in institutional reform matters, the key causes of the public
sector's inefficiency and overextension were largely not addressed. In this respect, the Bank can be
faulted for not insisting on a more fundamental structural reform in the Central Government, or at
least for making a start in the process. Instead the Bank was content with specifying public savings
targets which were eventually not met and required a waiver by the Board. Although this was
clearly a design flaw in SAL II, it is also likely that at that time the Government had not reached the
point of beginning to question the need for a more fundamental redefinition of the role and functions
of the State-partly due to its own political orientation but also because very few countries were then
involved in such reform efforts.
103. Financial sector reforms were largely supported by SAL II, although SAL I included as
prior actions the elimination of the sectoral credit allocation system, access by private banks to the
Central Bank rediscount facility fianced with foreign funds, and a Government commitment to
maintain positive real lending rates. The IM for SAL II identified the inefficiency of the large public
banks and weak supervision as major constraints in the fnancial sector. Public banks, which
accounted for about 85 percent of all financial transactions, provided credit to specific sectors at
subsidized rates, had a monopoly on demand deposits and unlimited access to the Central Bank
discount and liquidity facilities. The rationing of financial resources implied significant distortions
on interest rates, financial transactions, and loan portfolio of public banks (30 percent of which was
in arrears of over 90 days). The IM argued that removing the monopoly on demand deposits (which
do not pay interest) would create large losses in the public banks which would need to be covered
by the Government and would lead to serious macroeconomic imbalances.



- 32 -
104.  The IM recommended that deregulation should proceed at the same pace as the strengthening
of the public banks' portfolio. As a first step in this gradual process, SAL II supported the
Government's decision to allow private banks to intermediate all types of financial instruments with
maturities of 180 to 90 days maturity. It is interesting to note that neither the IM nor the supporting
ESW" challenges the rationale for maintaining a public banking sector. Instead, the argument is
presented in terms of strengthening public banks to compete in a more deregulated sector. In fact,
the Financial Sector Report echoes the warning of dire macroeconomic consequences from too rapid
deregulation and mentions that 'close attention should be given... .to improving the competitive spirit'
of public banks. The Report also emphasized the need to strengthen prudential supervision in a more
liberal environment.
105. Although the concern over losses in the banking sector may have been real, it is likely that
two other more important factors influenced the Bank's cautious approach to banking reform. First,
the need to focus on restructuring public banks, and the implicit assumption that state enterprises
could be made efficient and more like private firms, at the time seemed to be in line with the
approach followed by the Bank elsewhere. In many countries, the Bank often took as a given that
privatization of state enterprises, especially commercial banks, was not politically feasible and
therefore focused its advice on deregulation and ways to improve the efficiency of state-owned
enterprises. Second, raising the possibility of eventual privatization of Costa Rica's public banks,
even as a longer-term objective, was not politically acceptable. The nationalization of banking
institutions, which had taken place in 1948, was considered a major national achievement, especially
by the party then in power.
106.  Judged in terms of outcomes and subsequent developments, the Bank's cautious approach to
reform of the banking system proved justified. The decision to allow private banks to begin
intermediating financial instruments of less than 180 days maturity represented the first critical step
in the process of breaking the public sector's monopoly on demand deposits without directly
challenging the existence of the public banking sector. As it turned out, the Government went
beyond the actions required by SAL II and continued to gradually reduce the terms for local currency
deposits (investment certificates), from 90 to 31 days in January 1992. The process was completed
in November 1993, when as part of SAL III conditionality private banks were allowed to accept
short-term deposits of any maturity. This last step, however, was highly controversial and it opened
up, for the first time, a vigorous political debate on the role of the public banking sector. Although
the dust has yet to settle, there are indications that a consensus is emerging on the need to legally
remove the state monopoly on demand deposits and to move toward privatization of the public banks.
The current debate in Costa Rica is on how to privatize and on whether part of the public banking
sector should be retained to perform an as yet undefined development banking role. The Bank's
focus on strengthening prudential supervision was also well placed and the process is continuing as
part of the program supported under SAL III.
1 World Bank. 1988. Costa Rica: Sclected Finanial Sector Issues. Washington, D.C.



- 33 -
C. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
107.  Non-traditional exports have consistently grown at a fast pace since 1986, causing total
exports to also rise substantially during this period. Owing to the sharp reduction of the anti-export
bias emerging from the structural adjustment process, exports have been a key source of economic
growth during these years. The performance of public finances has been erratic, reflecting structural
constraints in the public sector and the stop-go approach to dealing with fiscal pressures. This
uneven pattern in fiscal behavior has had a corresponding effect on inflation, and despite sustained
export growth, on the current account deficit. Although due to high import demand and adverse
terms of trade, the current account deficit remains large, there was considerable progress in reducing
the fiscal deficit during 1991-92. Thanks mainly to the strong export performance, however, GDP
growth rates were quite acceptable, averaging 4.6 percent annually during 1985-92.
D. GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP
108.  Borrower ownership of the structural reforms, which is a pre-requisite for successful
adjustment lending, is particularly important in the case of Costa Rica. The country has a highly
developed democratic system, and a strong national desire to seek consensus and avoid conflict. This
system coupled with the Constitutional requirement that external loans contracted by the Govermnent
need to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the Legislative Assembly, means that the approval
and implementation of complex reforms will be a difficult and drawn out process. Even when there
is a strong commitment on the part of the Government, the need to reach a consensus with the
Parliamentary opposition and other major social forces before proceeding with reforms, almost
ensures that the implementation of SALs will take longer than initially anticipated by the Bank.
Although, as happened with the two SALs, the system ends up lengthening the period required to
implement structural reform programs and can cause some impatience among Bank staff, the effort
invested in seeking consensus is an important strength. Once consensus is reached backtracking is
rare. This was indeed the experience of the two SALs. When the conditionality has been well
defined and appropriate there have been no reversals, and in some instances the Government clearly
has gone beyond what was required for tranche releases. The major failures were in meeting public
sector macro targets, which this PCR has argued were inappropriately set.
109.  A related question refers to the Bank's role in supporting this consensus-building process.
There are two ways in which the Bank can assist in the process. First, by insisting up-front on the
approval of key reforms, especially those requiring legislative approval; and, second, by broadening
the policy dialogue beyond the Government and its economic team. On the first point, it would
appear that the Bank went as far as it could in terms of setting Board presentation conditions. On
the second point the Bank has had to tread a careful path between helping to explain the analytical
rationale for the adjustment program and becoming a participant in the ensuing political debate.
Although no information is available in the files on this aspect of the Bank's involvement, it appears
that Bank management and staff have always been prepared, at the request of the Administration,
to broaden the dialogue beyond the Government, including with the opposition.



- 34 -
COSTA RICA
SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1980-92
Avg.
1960-                                                                                     Est.
1963      1964       1985      1986       1987      1988    1989       1990      1991     1992
IN % OF GDP
PUBLIC
SECTOR
NFPS Current    20.3         25.2      24.5       25.0       26.0    26.7      26.7      26.1     27.6        29.1
Revenues
NFPS Current      21.7       21.0      20.8       20.6       21.3    21.8      23.6      23.9    23.7         23.0
Expenditures
NFPS              -1.4        4.2       3.7        4.4        4.7     4.9        3.2      2.2      3.8         6.1
Savings
NFPS Overall      -9.8       -1.6      -1.7       -1.7       -0.3    -0.3       -2.7     -2.9    -0.1          0.7
Satlnce
Consolidated   -10.4         -5.9      -7.0       -5.5       -3.8    -3.6       -5.4     -5.0     -2.0        -1.1
-IPubtic
Balance /
ALANCE OF
PAYMENTS
Trade             -6.4       -3.6      -4.4       -1.7       -6.2    -5.1       -7.3    -11.2    -7.0        -11.5
Bal ance
Resource          -3.4       -0.3      -1.7        0.9       -4.3    -1.9       -3.9     -6.8    -0.7         -5.2
Bal nce
Current          -13.5       -7.6      -7.8       -4.5      -10.0    -8.3    -10.9    -10.2       -4.0        -7.6
Account
Balance J
ANNUAL GROWTH RATES
Domestic          44.5       12.0      15.1       11.8       16.8    20.8       16.5     19.0    28.7         21.8
Prices
GDP J              2.3        8.0       0.7        5.5        4.8     3.4       5.7       3.6      2.3         7.3
Total             -3.0       12.0      -2.2       13.9        4.0    11.6      13.6       7.3     11.5        16.0
Exports of
god *nd
services J/
Non-              -6.3       18.0      -6.7       13.7      20.7    24.1       22.7       4.8      3.8       27.8
Traditional
Exports 4/
(1/) Includes Central Bank losses; (/) - Does not include official transfers; (QJ) - In constant prices;
(4/) - In U.S. dollars.



- 35 -
E. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
110.  The Bank had an active role during the complete cycle of the Loans focusing first on
supporting the Government in stabilization and initiation of economic reforms and then on deepening
and expanding the scope of the adjustment process. In identification of SAL I the Bank focused on
difficult but critical policy changes to initiate economic reforms and work intensively with the
Government through the process obtaining Legislative ratification within a short period of time, by
Costa Rican standards, from Board presentation. The process of implementation was difficult and
the Bank agreed to narrow but deepen the measures supported within SAL I. Given the difficult
decisions posed by a protracted process required to initiate and implement the programs the Bank
appropriately gave a strong emphasis to maintaining the process of reforms. SAL II benefitted from
the experience of SAL I and identification focused on deepening the reforms initiated in SAL I,
notably trade policy reform, initiated reforms in critical areas for the structural adjustment such as
the banking system and strengthening of supervision improved implementation.
111.  The Bank showed flexibility in implementing both SALs and has to a large extent been
effective in tailoring the SAL instrument to Costa Rica's gradual approach to structural reform. A
long run view of the process of structural reforms and the prospects to maintain and deepen the
extent of reforms have been an overriding factor in the Bank's decisions while implementing both
SALs. This approach allowed the Bank to correct some important flaws in program design and
implementation and maintain the adjustment process.
F. SUSTAINABILITY
112.  Sustainability needs to be addressed on two levels: first, the sustainability of specific
measures or conditions required by the adjustment operations; and second, the sustainability and
continuity of the overall adjustment process over the longer term. Although SAL I faced difficult
implementation problems and a number of second tranche measures had to be redesigned, specific
reforms, once agreed, were sustained. In SAL II some delays were encountered in implementation
of second tranche conditions and a waiver was required for the public savings target, but once
implemented reform measures were sustained. For both SALs there has been no backtracking on
reform actions.
113.  Experience with the sustainability of the overall adjustment process has been positive to date.
SAL I begun the process of structural adjustment, which was continued and deepened in SAL II.
The process has continued beyond SAL II, with the recent Board approval of SAL III which, if
implemented, would: (i) complete the trade reform effort envisaged at the start of the SAL process;
(ii) carry out a comprehensive restructuring of the role and functions of the state; (iii) further deepen
financial sector reforms; and (iv) complete the process of domestic trade deregulation.
G. MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
114.  Overall the Bank support for Costa Rica's structural adjustment process tirough the two
SALs has been justified and effective, despite some important shortcomings such as those in the area
of public sector reform. Throughout the process, the Bank has approached the structural reform
process in Costa Rica with a great deal of flexibility and has been effective in tailoring the SAL



- 36 -
instrument to the country's special circumstances. In particular, the Bank accepted the need to
implement reforms in a gradual manner and its judgement on overall Government commitment has
been generally correct. By 1990 public spending in social sectors as a percentage of GDP was
increased to 22 percent close to the 1980 ratio, and families under the poverty line (ECLA
methodology) was reduced by at least 4 percentage points. Overall progress in social indicators and
evolution of poverty alleviation followed closely the pace of economic growth. The marked
improvement in economic performance, especially in 1992, has been a welcome indicator of the
success of the reforms.
115. The main accomplishments of the SALs, discussed in detail in the subsections on overall
performance, were: under SAL I, trade reform, changing the activities of CNP, addressing public
employment, and safeguarding the privatization of CODESA; and under SAL II, initiating reforms
in financial intermediation and agricultural pricing policy reforms while continuing trade reform.
Structural reforms progressed gradually and the adjustment process was maintained.
116. The main limitations of the SALs were addressing in a more comprehensive way two
critical areas in Costa Rica's economy: public sector reform and financial sector reform. Regarding
public sector reform the SALs followed the trend on institutional matter then prevailing in the Bank -
focusing on a few institutions or processes identified as priority problem areas. These limited the
costs of the public sector inefficiencies and some of its financial imbalances but only temporarily
since the programs lacked a comprehensive framework to address the structural weaknesses of the
public sector. Regarding the financial sector reform these were limited by the political economy of
the sector and reflecting the Bank's cautious approach to reform of the banking system. These
measures, however, contributed significantly to broadening the scope of reforms of the financial
sector needed to support structural adjustment of productive sectors.
117. The main lessons learned can be grouped into two main areas - design and commitment.
Although, at the time of SAL I, there was agreement on the need to reduce the levels of protection,
reduce CNP losses and cap employment expansion in the public sector, the specific conditionality
was not well designed. On reducing CNP losses, targets were clear but neither the Bank nor the
government had a clear understanding as to how those targets would be reached. On public sector
employment there was no employment base to be monitored or an evaluation of the specific
mechanisms the Government would use to implement the employment freeze. The Bank relied on
the imposition of a freeze by the Government, which in the event could not be enforced fully.
118.  The design of SAL II clearly benefitted from the experience of SAL I, except for public
sector reform. SAL II was better able to deal with reforms in agriculture and external trade but in
the public sector reverted to the setting of macro targets. SAL II did not attempt to deal with the
levels of public sector employment and wages but focussed on targeting the level of public savings.
Although this was a more flexible way of confronting the fiscal problem but there were no specific
measures to achieve the savings target. In the event the Bank decided to grant a waiver and fall back
on the Fund's judgment that the Government was addressing fiscal imbalances.
119. The experience of the SALs confirms that there is no substitute for a strong political
commitment to the process of economic reforms to ensure a satisfactory adjustment program, a fact
by now well established. How to ensure this commitment in a society such as Costa Rica's,



- 37 -
however, is a difficult question. Clearly, programn implementation was affected by the political
cycle, but it is difficult to see what additional steps, if any, the Bank could have taken to ensure that
a bi-partisan commitment was in place before proceeding with the SALs. Since the Bank can only
deal with Governments, it must rely on its own judgement that the objectives and design of the
reform programn effectively address country constraints and priorities. This is the only guarantee the
Bank can have that a new Administration will be equally committed to the reform programn. The
experience in Costa Rica suggests that political commitment, albeit wavering at times, has been
sustained and that the Bank demonstrated sufficient flexibility in assessing performance in overall
program implementation. The two SALs straddled three Administrations and the Bank managed to
correct important flaws in program design in order to ensure continuity of the adjustment process.
120.  The most important lessons, for future operations, are:
a) The Bank needs to emphasize that the objectives and design of the reform program
effectively address the country's fundamental constraints particularly when program
implementation can be affected by the political cycle.
b) Program objectives need clearly specified actions identified as conditionalities for
successful implementation.
c) In addition to an appropriate design, the Bank needs to demonstrate flexibility and realism
in evaluating progress towards agreed objectives while maintaining credibility in the
actions that would follow non-compliance.
d) The experience of the SALs reviewed here once again confirms that there is no substitute
for a strong political commitment to the process of economic reforms to ensure proper
design and successful implementation of a program.
121.  Postscript. The Government and the Bank have agreed on a Third Structural Adjustment
Loan. SAL III was approved by the Board on April 15, 1993 and signed on April 19. The core of
SAL III is comprehensive reform of the public sector which benefitted from the lessons learned in
the design and implementation of the previous two SALs.
Part II: SUMMARY PROGRAM REVIEW FROM TlE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'2
A.    INTRODUCTION
122.  This summarizes the reports that evaluate the two loans (2158-CR and 3005-CR) approved
by the World Bank to the Government of Costa Rica to support its Structural Adjustment Program
during the period for 1985-91.
12 Thi8summay was prepared by Bank ftff based on the PCR prepared by the Government of Costa Rica. The
Governmment approved this summary.



- 38 -
123.  In this summary, the Government of Costa Rica presents its own independent analysis of the
experience in implementing both loans. In particular, it studies the role of the Bank and the
Borrower during the design and implementation of the loans, examining the relationship between the
two and that between the Government and the cofinancier (in the case of SAL II).
B.    THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
124.  The Bank adopted an active role during the development and implementation of both loans,
facilitating their successful execution. The Bank emphasized the need to focus first on adjustment
and then on the deepening of the of adjustment process.
125.  The above is particularly relevant for an economy such as Costa Rica's which, for more than
three decades, faced a relatively favorable external environment, using heterodox policies with
significant restrictions in order to support sustainable growth in the long run. The influx of foreign
investment in the seventies, the high coffee and banana prices in the mid-seventies and the nearly
unlimited access to foreign loans stopped Costa Rica from having to face the inherent problems in
its developinent policies, which it began in the forties, and the model of industrialization through
import substitution, adopted during the sixties.
126.  Conditions, however, changed by the end of the seventies. The international environment
not only ceased to be favorable but developed a new source of problems; we began to have to face
the obligations of an external debt that was among the highest in per capita levels in the world.
127.  Thus, Costa Rica finally found itself facing the structural dilemma of its recent economic
development pattern: progress in the productive structure had not acquired enough depth to finance
development in the social structure.
128. The Government of Costa Rica developed a recovery and stabilization program which was
implemented at the end of 1982 with IMF support. Its main objectives included the regulation of
inflationary pressures, the reestablishment of equilibrium in the balance of payments and the
improvement of relations with external creditors. Economic recovery, however, was slow and the
country's external position continued to be fragile because of weak export performance and high
debt-service payments.
129. The Bank's involvement during the preparation of the first structural adjustment loan was
crucial throughout the process up until the approval by the Legislative Assembly in August of 1985
of the Loan Agreement, known as SAL I which aimed at initiating a series of economic adjustments
at the macro and sectoral levels. Through this first Structural Adjustment program linked to Sal I,
the Government renewed its efforts in strengthening the afling fiscal and financial sectors, productive
efficiency and the promotion of non-traditional exports.
130.  After May 1986, a monetary program designed to strengthen the stabilization program was
introduced. It was aimed at reducing the consolidated deficit of the public sector and at curbing
inflation and included an exchange rate policy to reach an external balance of payments.



- 39 -
131.  In 1987, a second Structural Adjustment Program was introduced to strengthen the adjustment
process. This program's goals included: the reestablishment of sustained growth, the strengthening
of the external position through private sector export ventures and the creation of an efficient
productive sector capable of financing the social and political processes of development laid out in
Costa Rica's development strategy. However, apart from the tariff reduction policies, the adjustment
programs focused on correcting various short-term issues without addressing the deep-seated
structural rigidities that prevailed in the national economy. Also, foreign aid from other sources
allowed for a less profound adjustment due to the continued dominant presence of the public sector
in the economy and the inherent weaknesses of the productive system and its foreign ties.
132.  The World Bank's support with respect to the second structural adjustment loan cofinanced
by OECF of Japan made the implementation of policy reforms in foreign trade, public sector
management, financial intermediation and agricultural price-setting highly successful.
133.  The Bank's contribution to the second phase of the structural adjustment plan was invaluable
throughout the process up until it was formally ratified by the Legislative Assembly in October 1989.
134.  During the implementation of this second loan, the Bank played an important role in helping
the Costa Rican Government work efficiently at correcting deviations and finding solutions to
problems within the strict measures outlined in the loan agreement.
C.  THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
135.  Any assessment of the Borrower's performance in the context of structural adjustment must
take into consideration the political factors that weigh heavily in the design and the execution of the
concrete policies to be implemented in the corresponding program.
136.  Within these political constraints which limited the Government's action in initiating the
Structural Adjustment Program, we can conclude that during the first phase (SAL I), the Borrower's
performance did not provoke major setbacks, neither in the design of the measures supported by the
Bank nor in its legislative approval. It was the first experiment of its kind and the Bank itself was
learning about the contents and the limits of this type of program for assisting countries that required
a comprehensive structural adjustment program.
137.  The Borrower's performance was, perhaps, not altogether efficient during the second phase
(SAL II) because the range of policies to be implemented was expanded and the interests of the
affected groups were more evident. This may explain the delays noted during the implementation
stage. The groups involved insisted upon a very gradual execution of the adjustment measures, so
it was not until December 1, 1992, that the last stage of tariff reductions in textiles, shoes and
garments was implemented.
138.  The Government of Costa Rica acknowledges that it is not an easy task to attain stable and
sustainable growth, in which the modernization and diversification of the productive structure have
both the ability to maintain Costa Rica's living standards and social structure. The prolonged debate
of approximately ten months for the second structural adjustment loan reflects the restrictions that
structural adjustment programs must face regardless of the soundness of the program. Political



- 40 -
debate and the arrival at a consensus are two key ingredients which cannot be overlooked when
designing and implementing measures for structural adjustment in Costa Rica.
139.  The Borrower recognizes these restrictions, and the lessons learned from these previous
stages have been drawn upon in the current negotiations of a third structural adjustment loan.
140.  Perhaps the main lesson in the seven years of implementing the Structural Adjustment
Program is the need to undertake the difficult process of political re-education of pressure groups
to expedite measures that deepen the structural adjustment achieved so far.
D.  THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
141.  From the Government of Costa Rica's standpoint, the relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower has been fully satisfactory with respect to the support given to them for structural
adjustment.
142.  The preparatory and supervision missions have been productive and timely; the former ones
for consolidating support and the latter ones for rectifying flaws or helping the program advance in
the direction agreed upon with the Bank and satisfactory to national interests.
E.    PERFORMANCE AND RELATIONSHIP OF OECF AND THE BORROWER (SAL II)
143.  The Borrower's assessment is that the relations with OECF (Japan), which cofinanced the
Second Loan for Structural Adjustment, have been satisfactorily carried out with the Central Bank,
within the norms agreed upon.



- 41 -
Part m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
(Loan 2518-CR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amounts (US$ million)
LOAN POSION
Outstanding
Orizinal      Disbursed      Cancelled      R id          As of 2/28/
Loan 2518-CR           80             80                0         21.53           58.47
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Origrinal Loan Dates         Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum
Letter of Development Policy
Negotiations                            10/03/83                         01/28/85
Board Approval                           11/22/83                        04/16/85
Loan/Credit Agroommnt                     -                              04/17/85
Effectiveness                             -                              08/23/85
Loan/Credit Closing                       -                              06/30/86
Actual Completion                         -                               12/30/85
CUMULAnVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY85       EXY        FY87
Planned                              $40        $80        $80
Actual                               $0         $40        $80
Actul as % of Planned                0%         50%        100%
Date of Final Disbursement: August 1, 1986.
STAEPINPUT
(Staff Weeks)
EXI8  EYM  EY-85  E        Y E7  PY90 E1Y92  EY9   TOTAL
Preappraisal    62.4  174.5  8.2                                      245.1
Appraisal                  58.9                                        58.9
Negotiations                12.3                                       12.3
Supervision                  1.8  35.5  .5   .1                        37.9
Completion                                                    7.2       7.2
Sub-Total    62.4  174.5  81.2  35.5  .5   .1         0      7.2    361.4



- 42 -
STRUCrURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
(Loan 3005-CR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Amounts (US$ million)
LOAN POSMIION
Outstanding
Ori¢inal    Dibro   Cancellod           Rssaid          As of 2/28/93
Loan 3005-CR        100          100          0               0                100
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Original Loan Dates     Actual or Ro-estmstod
Initiating Memorandum
Letter of Developmet Policy
Negotiations                     11/00/87              08/03/88
Board Approval                  05/00/87               12/13/88
Loan/Credit Agreement             -                    12/16/88
Effectivenes                 S.t. Condition 1/                   11/15/89
Loan/Credit Closing             01/31/91               07/31/92
Actual Completion               06/30/91               07/31/92
I/ Subject to conditions (offectivenss expected for 3-16-89)
C V L DI
EXY8   EX9      EPY1   E7Y9
Planned                      $40    $100     $100   $100
Actual                       $0     $ 40      $ 40    $100
Actuala % of Planned         0%     40%       40%    100%
Date of Final Disbursment: June 4, 1992.
STF INPUT
(Staff Weeks)
EPY    E     EPY8  EP8   EPY8  Ep8   P9 Y1 PY2E  EPY9   TOTAL
Pre-appraisal                 42.8  33.1                                   75.9
Appraisal                           17.8                                   17.8
Negotiations                        12.2   1.8                             14.0
Supervision        5.8               0.8   0.6  15.0  18.3  19.0           59.5
Completion                                                    1.8  7.1      8.9
Sub-Total         5.8     - 42.8  63.9   2.4  15.0  18.3  20.8   7.1   176.1



- 43 -
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS I AND II:
RELATED BANK LOANS
Date of
Board
Ii~Purpose                                            royal Statiu                   Comments
Export Development Loan      To provide, through a revolving  05/03/83   Fully disbursed     Completed in
(Loan 2274-CR)               fund mechanism, short-term                                      December 1985
finance of imports by non-
traditional exporters.
Technical Assistance Loan    To support implementation of SAL   04/16/85   Fully disbursed   Completed in
(Loan 2519-CR)               I and carry out preparatory work to                             June 1990
support follow-up adjustment
lending.
Structural Adjustment Loan mI   To support the Government's   04/15/93   Loan Effectiveness   Congressional
(Loan 3594-CR)               adjustment progamn to reform the            pending             approval pending
public sector, continue trade policy
reform, improve competitiveness of
the financial system, increase
coverage and efficiency of social
programs, and reform the pension
system.






45 -
COSTwA RICA: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
1980       1981       1982      1983        1984      1985       1986
GDP per capita (USS)            1,961.5    1,145.7    1,011.5    1,246.6    1,429.2    1,484.6    1,619.9
GDP (Current USS)                4,481      2,696      2,452      3,112      3,671      3,922     4,399
CPI (Growth rate)                18.10      37.10      90.10     32.62       11.95      15.05      11.34
Unenployment rate               5 5.92%    8.75%      9.37%      9.03%      7.91%      6.85%      6.23%
-NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (% of GDP)
Consumption                      83.8       75.9       72.4       76.6       76.9       75.9       73.9
Private                         65.S       60.1      57.8       61.5       61.2       60.1       58.6
Public                          18.2       15.7       14.6       15.1       15.6       15.8      15.4
Total Fixed Investment           23.9       24.1       20.3       18.0       20.0       19.3       18.7
Private                       14.7       15.2       13.1       11.6       13.7       12.3       12.8
Public                         9.2        8.9       7.2        6.4        6.4        7.0        5.8
Resource Balance                 -10.3      -4.9        2.9       -0.7        0.4       -1.8       0.8
Export of G & S                 26.5       43.3      45.1       36.0       34.4       30.7       31.3
Inport of G & S                 36.8       48.2       42.2       36.8       34.0       32.5      30.5
Financing of Investment          26.6       29.0       24.7       24.2       22.7       25.9       25.2
Gross National Savin            11.8       13.9       12.4       13.6      15.5        18.1      20.8
GrossDomesticSavm              16.2      24.1       27.6       23.4       23.1       24.1       26.1
Current Trauers                0.3        1.0        1.3        0.7        0.9        1.1        0.9
Net Factor ncme FromAbroad    -4.8       -11.3      -16.5      -10.6      -8.5       -7.1       -6.1
Foreign Saving                  14.8       15.2       12.3      10.6        7.2        7.8        4.4
-BOP (million of USS)
Exports (G&NFS)                 1224.9     1202.3     1124.6     1118.3     1252.6     1225.5     1396.3
Inports (G&NFS                  -1688.1    -1332.9    -1053.4    -1155.5    -1263.3    -1291.9   -1357.9
Trade Balance                   -527.6      -207.2     -24.9     -159.1     -133.2      -171.9    -75.5
Resource Balace                  -463.2     -130.6     71.1-      -37.3      -10.7      -66.4      38.4
NetDirectForelp Invest.          48.1       66.2       26.3       55.1       51.9       65.2       57.3
Net M&LT Capital flows           8S.2       198.3     -115.0      194.4      -82.0      -57.3     -234.6
Total Refinandng                  0.0        0.0        0.0      1153.0      203.6      374.3      145.9
Total Arrea                      283.0      208.2      562.8    -1070.0      121.5     -143.5      201.1
Principal                         .        60.6       287.4       ..        99.1       -51.0      107.7
Interest                         -.        147.6      275.4       ..        22.4       -92.5      93.4
Net Other Cap. Inflows 1/        190.6      -94.6      -63.9      41.7      -127.3       5.4        6.8
Capital Account Bablce           659.5      422.7      303.1      347.9      280.6      306.0      198.0
Overall Balance                  -38.0     -44.8       113.4      72.4       -3.9       114.3      92.9
Changes in Reseres 2/            38.0       44.8      -113.4      -72.4       3.9      -114.3      -92.9
-NON FIN. PUB. SECTOR (% of GDP)
Current Revenues                 21.0       17.9       18.1       24.2       25.2       24.5       25.0
Current Expeditures              23.3       21.7       20.6       21.1       21.0       20.8       20.6
Current Surplus (Deficit -)      -2.3       -3.8       -2.5        3.1        4.2        3.7        4.4
Capital Revenues                  0.2        0.4        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.0        0.1
Capital Expend.&Net Lend.         11.2       10.2       6.4        6.9        6.0        5.4        6.2
Overall Bal. (- Def.)            -13.3      -13.7      -8.7       -3.6        -1.6       -1.7      -1.7
Fuiancing:                       13.3        13.7       8.7        3.6        1.6        1.7        1.7
,Net External 3/                 4.7        11.2       6.2        1.0        1.6        3.2        2.1
Net Internl                     6.S        3.0        2.7        2.8        -0.1       -1.4       -0.9
Adjustnent                        2.1       -0.S       -0.2       -0.1        0.0       -0.1        0.5
Memo:
C. B. Losses                      0.0       -5.0       -5.6       -4.9        -4.3      -5.3       -3.8
Overall Deficit + C.D. Loss       0.0       -18.7      -14.3      -8.5        -5.9       -7.0      -5.5
3/ lichdm aoand omaie, pdvs md daca r debt
2/ Ince valueio. adjAimA
3/ Zlachd. ch in  xwnml amn an zehdusiag



- 46 -
rwft
COSTA RICA: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS (cont.)
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991         MP92p
1,618.4    1,609.8    1,777.0    1,892.3    1,821.2    2,061.0    GDP per capita (US$)
4,509     4,613      5,226      5,710      5,634      6,530      GDP (Current USS)
16.85     20.83      16.51      19.04      28.71      21.79      CPI (Growth rate)
5.58%     5.46%      3.77%      4.64%      5.54%      4.10%      Unanployment rate
-NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (% of GDP)
77.1      77.3       77.3       79.6       76.7       76.0       Consiuption
62.1      61.7       60.3       61.4       60.5       60.2        Private
15.0      15.6       17.0       18.2       16.2       15.8        Public
19.8      18.9       20.5       22.4       19.7       20.9      Total Fixed Inveshnent
15.4      14.8       16.0       17.7       15.5       14.8          Private
4.4       4.1        4.5        4.7        4.2        6.2          Public
-4.1      -1.8       -3.8       -6.8       -0.7       -3.8      Resource Balance
31.7      34.0       34.8       34.3       38.4       36.9        Export of G & S
35.8      35.8       38.6       41.1       39.1       40.6        Import of G & S
27.0      24.5       26.5       27.2       24.0       28.2       Fmancing of Investment
17.2      16.2       16.2       17.2       21.3       23.0        Gross National Saving
22.9      22.6       22.7       20.4       23.3       24.4         Gross Domestic Saving
0.9       0.9        0.8        1.0        0.9        0.9          Current Transfeas
-6.6      -7.3       -7.2       -4.2       -2.9       -2.3         Net Factor Income From Abroad
9.8       8.3        10.3       10.0       2.7        5.2         Foreign Saving
-BOP (million of USS)
1451.6     1620.1     1841.3    1975.3     2158.1     2556.7     Exports (G&NFS)
-1646.7    -1707.2    -2045.7    -2361.8    -2240.1    -2893.6    Imports (G&NFS)
-282.1     -234.8     -380.3    -642.2     -396.9      -751.0     Trade Balance
-195.1     -87.1     -204.4    -386.5       -82.0     -336.9     Resource Balance
89.5      122.0      101.2      162.4      177.5      114.7      Net Direct Foreign Invest.
-545.9    -263.5     -334.6     -173.2      112.4      -69.3     Net M&LT Capital Flows
42.9       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       Total Refinancing
597.8     348.3      475.0      139.0       82.9       47.2      Total Arars
415.8      97.7      204.5       54.8       34.9       22.2       Principal
182.0     250.6      270.5       84.2       48.0       25.0       Interest
124.7      66.7      188.3       13.4      116.8      492.5      Net Other Cap. Inflowi 1/
453.4    . 383.9      567.0     583.6       269.0     499.2      Capital Account Balance
42.8      104.9      15.1      -305.5      303.7      160.3      Overall Balance
-42.8     -104.9     -15.1      305.5      -303.7     -160.3     Changes in Reserves 2/
-NON FIN. PUB. SECTOR (l of GDP)
26.0      26.7       26.7       26.1        27.6       29.1      Current Revenues
21.4      21.8       23.6       23.9        23.7      23.0       Current Expenditures
4.7       4.9         3.2       2.2         3.8        6.1      Curnt Surplus (Deficit-)
0.1       0.1         0.1       0.0         0.1        0.1      CapitalRevenues
5.0        5.3        5.9       5.2         4.1        5.5      Capital Expend.&Net Lend.
-0.3      -0.3        -2.7      -2.9        -0.1       0.7       Oveall Bal. (- Def.)
0.3       0.3         2.7       2.9         0.1       -0.7      Financing:
0.7       -0.2       0.4        0.3         1.7        0.6        Net Exteral 31
-1.0       0.4        2.1        2.3       -1.6       -1.1        Net Internal
0.6       0.1        0.2        0.3         0.0       -0.3       Adjustment
Memo:
-3.5       -3.3      -2.7       -2.0        -1.8       -1.8      C. B. Losses
-3.8       -3.6       -5.4      -5.0        -2.0      -1.1       Overall Deficit + C.B. Losses



ANNEC 2
STRUCTUL ADAMISLfOAMNI
MARI F IRANC= RElES
CONDffTONS ANDf ACTUAL ACTONS TAKEN
1. Msdendl_sPeliq     ~~~Mm M
A. Ehp RAPO MO                       - M_wd dowlnoim 1981-U
bmd_ by pwodk drvwliooo   _d
a   Iexble  exehasge  rat     poliqy.__  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _   __  _   _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
3. Rafon of Impret Trff              -  Aueeaaa on roul aifW tratY.                FM   t b et cdu a ipos of                 Complin  of trade refom conditions
raw mutailak  amada  - capitatl            Ws aot vay positive, althog it
Pods is a deaan  wit thelekte se          pat beyond the Govenmet's
for  in the Pp m.                         contol. Tfe main aspcts wre:
(i) Th new regiona trff had a range
I) lmplae  fthe Nomclatura                of 10-100% for competing raw
Arcebria Ufrms                            materials and intermediate goods.
Centroamerlcana, (NAUCA 11); G0)         inead of the agreed 20-30%  asn.
.envft tsiff scbeduks m imported          There were also soe octhr, less
goods to - ad-vabrei base; and 0)        importan, differences wkh the new
impbnt a new trade regie in               regional tariff.
rdace with the provisions of the          (ii) Rcfnrm of the Import surcharges
Caal Americn  d   _ad Taff                on final conasm    goods also fell short
Agreement,                                of the envisioned goals.
(iii) In Decembe 195. the Central
(TAL) Underte a analysis of the           Bank approved  vral surcbaSrge and
utriff rform on Ca  Ricn indusrry         regioal tariffs that were, in gcneral,
nd need for furber adjustmaet             subsniy higher thn prior ones,
although they remaid below the levels
agred under SALI
-  (iv) No greement on tariff levels had
been reced regionalY for SoMe
important ie. includg textiles,
goarents, plastics and paper products.
As a result, ech country (ioduding
Coam Ric) set up tariffs for those
ites at veuy high levels, typically in
the 70-100% range.
-Sao PCR of TAL foc detals on the
study which us not earried ot.
/IPragraphs in bold conspod to te Loa  Agernar, otherwis to dw Psuldet's Rcport. Prgph prooeded by (TAL) oonwpond to (mostly) sudies suppoted by the Technial
Assi1t*oce Lon thcat wo am conditions fr the seod tacho of SAL L.



,sta at,,. n..Jnaad, *       1         ..                                j       @. .  ,. . . .                       |
C. Export Taxer                          All expo ptae on non-traditioaal
expors to third market were
_ diimi4.
D.  Export lacenives to Markets      -  Establis   revolving Export
Outside the CACi.                   Fiacing Fund in the Cintra Bank and
iroduced an iaproved dr=_bck
.  ~~~~~~~Wiism.
E. Modeomizo do do lndutrial         -  Govenmet with support of private    c     Del  a prepam of modendtio of   -  It complied with the initia stae of the
Sector                                sectr orpalates and extei                thb Nonvwes indural seor,                 desip of a program to moderizo the
tehic   assistance, pre d props..       iNdg a p*opm for the pilt nd              indutia sector, although laer tha
to asist industries to moderize,        equip.nt uppaln  ued1 polcy               originally eavisiooed.
indcdiog rnging thdir ability to        and tring of management and
obtan the maketig and tchbnologca       labor.
Infonration needed to brek into nev
markets.
Goymiwmet also deviloped strategy
sad progms to arae foreig
Inestors, also wit external tcdnla
11. Impreve the Edcy of Pubic
Sector Maaagememt, Rsesoe
Aocaties, and C_erol of Pbilc
Spending
A. Public Employment and Wags.       -  Pblic sector employment levels fro    -  Take al the aesty measres to               Public Employment bad Incased in
for three yea. beginig Ma  2,           inpleme  a        on pubk sector          1985 by an cimte 2.5% (or 2,800
1.         Reduce the public          1914. Ncw spoitmea limited to           enplsymet in 198S in accordnce            cmpoyees), insead of beig frozen at
sector's sha, in the       epecial cs-e by Contrkwia, ad not to     wih tle provioses of the Law No.        the 1914 evel, as it had been agreed
Oconmy                     ex   eanployment ceiing. Other               .                                    with the Boak. This was caed,
st_p take to eliminae vacat poss,                                                 maiy, by the inabiity of the Ceal
2.        redce the dse of            accelerte retremns and ecouep            (TAL) Cry oat a study of public           Governmet to enforce the employ t
maps in                   transfers to p   nw sector.               sector salay a incentive policiers.      freze i autonomous agencies (e.g.,
aqditue                                                                                                      CCSS hired IS00 nw employe).
In 19U6, Public employment was
still aboe  the agreed 1914 levd. The
.___ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ _  __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __   _ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ ___   registrd  increase (b et   2.0 and
It. Pargaphs in bold corrpon to the Loan Agreaeme, otewie to the Preidecc Rept. P= pba pteded by (TAL) correspond to (mostly) uies a oztd by the Twchncl 
Asidance Loan thas were also condition for the eoond  awche of SAL 1.



SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                                                   j~Y-EOARD  .                        -S STEPS TO DR TAKEN II'ACTIONS TAK-EN
A  Public Employment and Wages.                                                                                             2.5%, depending upon the sources of
(Continued)                                                                                                             figures and estimntes) was, however,
much smaller than in previous years.
when it had averaged about 6%
annually.
Study completed. Sec PCR for TAL
for details.
B. Budget Administration and Control.
and Reorganization of Public
Finances
I         Rcorgniztion of         -  High-lo    Commission eblished by
Public Finances           the Asembly to make rcomnmdatn
nd prepare draft legislation to reorder
public finances and tax syrtm.
Law for the Financial Equilibrium of
the Public Sector limbn: (i) Ceta
Government acces to credit from the
Natil Banking System (SBN) to S
pent of total budgeted expenditures
for the ptevious year. and () forbids
deenalized   tittions from obtaining
exteal crodit to cover crrnt
operational cost
2.         Budge Authority and        Etbidshmeat of a Budget Authority    -  (AL) Ilpfove overall budget pincers    -  Done. For dctails, see the PCR for the
Budpt Process               d preparation of anwl piddi  for        through the doevelopment of procedures   TAL
budget preparation.                      for improved budBet exctiobn an
conuls, including monkoring of
Law for the Finncial Equilibrium of      physcl an finanil progre  of
the Publi Ser esablihed _                projects, nd aalyds of post budgt
eriaeeL for budget pteparation,          pedonmne to aid preparation of future
incuding that, all eatited               budgts.
editures must be tid to a
equimlet level of rev_u as eufied    -  (TAL) Iaiae a review an revision of
by the Controller General; an currnt     the legal fram_atk an admniistrative
expenditu  must be financed with         ta  of the Technical Secrdrat to
current revenuosr ad, noe-priority      Improve  oodinatio In prepring,
budget items of decentralized            imeplnmatinSg and controUing public
istitutions can be dimInat on           soctor budS.                                                                            P
11. Pb eha in bold or on to the Lan Agreemt, otherwine bo the    iddt's Rspout Nagpbp dd by TAL) co spond to (mostly) udie suppotd by the ThnicalI  -a
Asswane Loan tat w, asondition for the second trench. of SAL 1.



2.         BuiptAmorky ami              _ _mmaiaof te Bodre
BudgetPro                  Avt        d qwib CaUtL
3.         Cotrdol Of temked       .    anekin of er*ti mm fit sperM.
taxes Nd com_uwey          pupma  reduced in 1964 sW 19
Nudlag Assembly aqppim of rs,
Of Ssq"kipg syt, Oov_msU wl
so p e no appove my  islatlon
__________p sa  ae .earma-Ing.
C. Raobrpazmoa of CODEZA ad
Resuctring of ki Prtfolio
I.         Divetie of Pontfolio    -  AMa y qprp   of lbgisltlos                C_mplg  a _  of scum  ohed_ag a    -  TeGovernment wa basically Is
asdeizin_g he Executive Drelw    l toenstd_hi for am dEvude la 18S o.              compliac wi the condiions rdated
WI of CODESs shn in ka                   t  _wApiu ewmd by CODISA, I               to te CODESA divetro progam.
e_epris  wit the ecpion ofW              aewdmce wih tD  pevisios of the            albeit at lter dat  than aSreed upon.
perent owsewuhip of FURTICA  ad         Law 055.
CMesto" del Paco                                                                -  Ie prog    for FER1CA ma nota
.  (TAL) Ptaae an action progm  to           done. See PCR for TAL for details.
Within this framework CODESA baa         Improv the maageme  and matketing
coked DAIA mod C     _moe del Valb,     of FEKCA and stregtben
Who  equip_maz vas "Id; sold             maagmen of CATSA.
Malercltara. Acuacul   sad itsbuse
in Smib-poductos del CafE; hacesad
privas particiption in STAEAPAIU.
OGyermmt as abilIsng a Trust
Fund wih forei  financing to expdite
_______ _______ _______ _______ _______ divestiture.
2.    h     nsitton  an Plicy         Agremnt reacbed on ew policy          -  (TAL) Complte a program of                 This was not compltoed. See the PCR
Imptovamnts                objectives and  titution   ideines        reorganization and policy imprvements     for the TAL for details.
for CODESA, to rcoriet iu activitis      under new guilines.
to promote agro-industry projetu and
export proj6ect outside the CACM.
CODESA'r participation Is liited to
30 pect of total capit noeeds. No
loan, guarante  or endorsmenAs
would be made, except for all agro-
indudry projects. All projes  bjet to
sict economi  d fincil feasb
_ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _   _  _       guidelne.                                .__            _  _      _      _       _   _     _      _      __                    &    f
1/. Pngaphs in bold corpond to tie Loan AgreeenYt, othwise to the Pesidd t's Report. Pargrphs preceded by (TAL) cormpond to (mosly) studies suppored by the Technical  
A tnce Loan tht we  lo  conditions for the secow  unche of SAL 1.



w::8:~~~~~. ..        . S .... ; - .   .. . .   ..   .
______B _____R__                             .SEST  ETAE                                   'AONS TA MEN
D.  National Production Council          Agreement to reduce CNP's loues by    -  Take *D the necessary  easusres to     -  The Government did not comply with
(CNP)                               50 percent each year beginning in 1985   reduce the 1984 operating losxs of the     the condition of achieving an annual
through appropriate price and poliqc      CNP by SO% in 198S.                      reduction of CNP losse of 50%
adjumnents. Actions to reduce losses                                               starting in 1985. On the contray,
from corn, beans and rice already    -  (TAL) Carry out a study of price an        during that year, CNP losses increased
tkw=.                                    nuwketing policies, induding              further, owing to higher sorghum
organizational structure of CNP, to       production and larger rice purchascs
definc policy options for reducing costs  than planned. In view of this situation,
of existing framewerk and provide more    tbh Government took additional
cffective incentives,                     measures during the first half of 1986,
of which the most important was
excluding the public sector from the
markceting of sorghum and rice. These
measurcs were designed to cut CNP
deficit in 1986 to no more than 800
million coloncs during the subsequent
12 months, and were accepted by the
Bank as the basis, concerning this
condition, for releasing the second
tranche.
-  Done. See the PCR for the TAL for
details.
E. Public Sector lnvestment Program  -  Agreemet on public investment cediing    -  (TAL) Compite n review of the        -  The implementation of the public sector
of 6.5 percent of GDP for Caetrl         progress in caTrying out the public        investment program was generally met,
Gonment and main public entitics         sector invesment prognam set forth In     although at later dates than originally
during 1984-46.                          the Program, including the                planed. See the PCR for the TAL for
compliance with the 1985 public           details.
Agreement reached on a revised thtee-    sector investment targets set in the
year investment program (1984-86)        Program.
compatible with the expected
avaibabiity of domestic resources,
financial position of public ceterprises
concerned, and service conatra;ntr.
IIl.   Publc Resource Mobilztioa 
A. Tax Reform                            Since taking office the Government
raised Central Government revenues by
about 7.5 percentage points of GDP,
through pplication of new taxes and
revision of existing tax rates.
11. Pfrgraphs in bold correspond to the Lean Agreement, tewise to the President's Repott Pargaphs preceded by (TAL) correspond to (mostly) sudies supponed by the Technical  *
Assiance Loan that wterie ao condikions for h scond uanche of SAL 1.



B Financing of Autonomous Public     -  Sipificant price and tariff increases fog
Sector Entities ead Hon-Finncsial     pr. watcr* tdAecommunkationS.
Enterprises                           petreum  prodts and urban uanspod
weM pt ito effta sice 1912.
IV.   Extenl Deb Management and          -  Directives wes sued rquiring
Centrol                               contracting of new external debt to be
approved by Planning. the Budget
Authorty and the Controfler cena.
Central Bank inslled Debt reporting
n4d monitoring syseem.
Decentralized agencies cannot obtain
external credit to finace current
expenditures.
V. Increasing Agricuturl Production      -  Revision of overall incentive systen
and Exports                              undcrvey, induding actions to adjug
exchange rate and refortm Import
tarifls; liminate export txes on non.
traditionala to third market; ad reduce
tax on beer expons.
V.   Banking Syutem
A. Credit and Ilterest Ra  Polic     -  EstablihrnDt of positive real interest
rats and Govemrneat commitent to
maintain deposit rates above expected
infltion.
B. Inslitutional Framweuek           -  Study of National Banking Systn by
high-level commission completed
November 1984.
-  Amendmeat of Money Law to permit
lending in foreign exchange and
transfer of foreign exchange risk to the
ultimate borrower; and approval of
amendments to Central Bank L1 to
pernit direct prite beak acces to
BCCR rediscount facilities financed
with foreign funds.
-  Eliminadion of credit allocation systa
by s-sectors.                                                                                                                 %
Passr            in bo  oesW   to    Ems AL  e t, o w            to   PrdlaKs RepotL  Pagraphs preceded by (TAL) cospoad to (mostly) tdis supotd by the Technical            W
hcnec lt&n IhCI was a_ ooam for zxdw tnomcwhb of SAL L



ACIN ALREADY rAT(
SECTORA-ND.POLC  ISE 5                         BOARD PRESENTATION                     61EPS T BK                                   ACTIONS TAKE.
VIl  Improving Cost-Effectivness of
Key Institutions and Programs
A. Strengthen the Financing and      -  Social Security (CCSS) Impleamented an
Management of Social Security and    action plan to increase revenues and
Health Programs                      reduce costs, including pcronane
reductions. CCSS budgt for 19S4
dowed a surplus.
B. Improve Cot-Eflfeivenc of         -  Teachber employment levd frozen for
Education Programs, Including         19S4-86 (as part of overall freeze on
Improving Quality and Focus of       public sector employment).
Education Consistent with Current
Needs
1/ pangraphs in bold corrpond to the Loan Agrennent. othewse to the Priden's Report. Paagraphs precedd by (TAL) correpond to (mostly) studies suppoztd by the Technical
Assistance Loan that wer also conditions fur the second tranche of SAL 1.






ANNEX 3
STRUCMURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN n
MATRIX OF TRANCHE RELEASE
CONDITIONS AND ACTIUAL ACTIONS TAKEN
R AC . TONS ALADY AIT                                              ;
SECOR: AND POLCY IS=:                     YBOAAD PRESETTO?B-j                                                                     tfON  AE
L  Export and Trade Swtor
A.  Anti-export bias of the trade    - Implementation of first phuse       a Implement three equal tariff reductions  r Impklmnted the tariff reductions.
regime.                       rationalization of CACM tariff regime,    between June 30, 1938 and June 30.
including reduction of highegt nominal   1989.                                    Reduced prior importer's deposits.
tariffs below 70%, with *ome exccptions.
s   Reduce prior importer's deposits from    t Implkmentod the tariff adjustments
50% to 30% by June 30, 1989.            generaUy on trck.
tImpkment a fourth semi-annual tariff    t Prior imnportcr's deposits were reoduced.
reduction-equal to the prior ones-by
December 31, 1989, to achieve by that
date the folowing tariff structure:
- AU tariffs should be within a S to
40%, except: texies, apparel and
shoes which would take five years;
non-competing essential goods such as
medicines would pay 1 percent; some
non-competing final goods (primarily
luxury goods such as automobiks,
caviar, ancbovies) would have tariffs in
excess of 40 percent Within this
framework, raw materials-
Intermediate goods and capital goods
would have a ceiling of 20 percent and
a floor of 5 pereent
t Reduce prior importer's deposits to
10% by December 31, 1919.
I/ Panpbs in bold eorrerpond to the Loan Agreeunt otherwis to the Pesdents Report. Test folowed by 's correponds to conditions for the second tranche and text following 't 
cornsponds to third trnoah conditionality.



B. Need for * stble incenive       - implncntation Of crawing peg cxchsng    s Mudt hve Ihe new export inentive     s The incentive system is estabtished in
regime to encourge privite       rate regime, with pedodic mini-          systm  satisfatorily operating by June  1991
sector inveStMent in non-        adjusanme.                               1989.
traditional expors intended for
non CACM markets               - inecntive rcegiim system and expon
contat sytem to coordinate benefit to
exporer.
- Eablisbment of privaly adminstered
trade on in 195.
- Application for memberhip in GATF.
- o0eing of air cag   anspottion to
tofeign air carriers.
II.  Agriculturat Pdwng Pondl
A. Pricing policies for basic grin   Freezing of nominal suport price to   t SL ptoducer wspport prioes for carn,      Complied in 1991.
crops that doot reflc4t woaM     producen of bean and comn during 1987.    bewn and doe not to exced 1.4 times
market psicae offering inadequat                                          the;t isnalon  fivo-year avenage
incentives                     - lAeMnlization of rice primes in 1987.    during 1990.          -     -
B. Publik sector monopoly on         Tranfer   impont rights on rime to tbe    Eb_ine CNts mnopoly an Imports   s Private traders were *owed to Import
impods of some basic giimni      private sector.                          and rnit len   to permit traders to      but not until 1991
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   m p ort   basic   grkai s.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
11. Public Sortwr M    get                            -__                     _
A. Need to increas overU public    - 1987f198 tax actions to inc_eas       s Rabe PbIk Seco Savg to 5.7%   *     The Public Savings condition was
sector savings                   revmenes ata rate of 1.3% of GDP per     GDP in 19M  sad introduce  provision   waived by the Board for second tranche
bi the 1989 budgetto icras the          disbu rt in July 1991.
muwelted 198    average of publc
savgs to at kast  perent of GDP.      t The rbow waiver %as carried over to
the thir tranclie.
t Inrodce a proion in the 1990 budge
setins PubliC Saving to aa enviged
average of at luet 6 peret of GDP for
the 1988-90 Period.
1t Paragphs in bold coroespond to the Loan Ageinnut otherwise to thu Ptealdenta Repost. Tex fbDlwed by s' orresponds to conditions for th second trache and tcxt folowing  t
corresponds to third tran   coaedtiaaiy.



ACTtONS ALREADY TA.                               - . ..                  . ;
SECTOR AND) POLICY ISSUE               - BY BOARD PESENTATION                      STE-i        TO BE TAKEN l:                ACTIONS TAEN
B. Limited discretionary authority to   - Stricter control of actual budget    Not propose new legislation         s Complied, with delays.
manage public expenditures       allocation on pait of Finance Ministry,  establishing earmarked revenues
given high percentagc of                                                 during 1988 and 189.                   s Investment program was implemented
earmarked expenditures
a Implement in the 1988 budget the      t Complied
projected three year public investment
program that was presented to the
Bank.
I Should have implemented the 198849
components of the above investment
program.
C. Need to reduce public sector   - 1984 Emergency Law with divestiture
size and provide incentives for  program of Government's owned
private sector activities        CODESA's enterprises.
- Tax Reform Project to reward
reinvestment of corporate projects
presented for Congress approval.
IV.  Fnancial Sector
A. Nced to increase financial     - Libermzation of interest rate and credit   s Maintain subsidized credit by public  s Initially the caps on subsidized credit
savings and to improve their     allocation controh.                    commercial banks at the December 31,    were not met. Hawever, they were
allocation                                                               1986 levd of C 5.3 bdLion in nominal     complied by 1991.
- Total subsidized credit reduced to about  terms and seasonal variation not
16% of total lending.                   exceed an average of 5 percent in real
tenm.
B. Need to improve efficiency of  - Draft Law submitted to Congress to relax   s Reduce public commercial Bask's 180    a The conditions wemr eventually met, but
and competition in the banking   administrative controls on publc banks.  days overdue portfolio to 5 percent of  not by the target dates.
system                                                                   total outstanding loans made by such
- Prognum to allow private banks to       banks as of December 31, 1988 and to    t Complied by late 199 1/beginning of
intermediate financial assets of less than  4 perent by June 30, 1989.          1992.
180-days of maturity.
tReduce abovc portfolio to 3 percent of
total outsanding  asu by December 31.
1989.
1/ Pagraphs in bold correspond to the Loan Agreemen otherwise to the President s Report Text folowed by 's' corresponds to conditions for the second tranche and text following t b
crmsponds to third unnche condstioahty.



~iCTIQNS ALREADY TI,          T
S,CTOR-AND POL CY ISSE                   BY BOARD PRESEWNATION  .K ,                          O   BEEN.11   . .... AONSTAEN
C. Need to strengthen supervision of  - Draft law submitted to Congress to   s The Superintendency of Banks should    s The conditions were eventually met, but
the financial sector              strengthen supervision of financial       inplement regulations aimed at: (i)      not by thc target dates
institutions by Auditorla General de     allowing banks to chare penaly
Bancos (AGB).                            Interest rates for debts not paid at their
maturity; (ii) prohibiting banks to
register as incore the interest accrued
on bans that had betn past due for
more than 180 days; (iii) instructing
banks to publish annual financial
statements in newspapers with nation-
wide circulation; and (iy) requiring
banks to have their financial statements
audited by external auditors.
D. Need to pmmote equity financing   - Draft law submitted to Congress to    s Approval of the draft Law              s Complied
on new investments                strengthen the operation of securities
markets.
00
11 Paragmphs in bold cormspond to the Lan Agreeeat otherwise to the Preside"W  Report. Text foDowed by "s' coresponds to conditions for the second trnche and text following t   b
corresponds to third trancho conditionality.



- 59  -                     ~~~~~~~~~Atuchikit
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARTE II
(PAE-I y PAE-II)
INTRODLUCCION'
Estas notas forman parte de los informes de finalizacio'n de
los dos-prstamos (2158-CR y 3005-CR) que el Banco Mundial concedio
Al Gabierno de Costa Rica para apoyar su Programa de Ajuste
Estructural durante el perlodo 1985-1991.
Se expresa aqui el juicio independiente del Gobierno de Costa
Rica sobre la experiencia de implementacion de los dos 'prestamos.
Especificamente  as  enjuicia  el  desempeno  del  Banco  y  del
Prestatario durante la evolucion e implementacion de los prestamos,
se establece la efectividad de la relacion entre ambos y del
Gobierno con el cofinanciador (solamente para el PAE-1I).
DESMWEO DEL BINCO
El papel activo asumido por el Banco durante la evoluci6n e
implementaci6n de los dos prestamos, permiti6 una ejecuci6n exitosa
de ellos. En efecto, el papel del Banco ha sido clave para
reforzar la toma de conciencia sobre la necesidad del ajuste
primero, y de profundizarlo despues.
Lo anterior es especialmente cierto para una economia como la
costarxicense que durante mas de tres decadas enfrento un ambiente
exterior relativamente favorable, que permiti6 una aplicaci6n de
politicas heterodoxas con serias limitaciones para sustentar un
crecimiento sostenido en el largo plazo. El flujo de inversi6n
extranjero de los setentas,-los altos precios del cafe y del banano
a medLados de los setenta y, finalmente el acceso casi irrestricto
al endeudamiento externo, Rosibilitaran que estilo del desarrollo
costarricense que se gesto en la decada-de los cuarentas y el
mAodelo de industrializaci6n sustitutiva de importaciones que se
puso en marcha durante los sesentas, no tuvieran que enfrentar
seriamente sus propias limitaciones.



- 60 -
Page 2 of 4
Pero a finales de los setentas todo esto cambi6. La situaci6n
internacional no s6lo dej6 de ser favorable, sino que se convirti6
en una nueva fuente de problemas, en especial cuando tuvimos que
empezar a enfrentar los compromisos- que representaba una deuda
externa que habia alcanzado uno de los niveles per cipita mas altos
del mundo.
Asf, Costa Rica se vio finalmente confrontada con el dilema
estructural de su desarrollo reciente: los avances en su estructura
productiva  no  habian  logrado  la profundidad  necesaria  para
financiar los logros en la estructura social.
No  obstante  los  esfuerzos  del  Gobierno  de  Costa  Rica
adelantados mediante un programa de estabilizaci6n y recuperacion
puesto en prictica de fines de 1982 con el apoyo del Pondo
MonetaLrio Internacional, cuyos objetivos principales fueron el
control de las presiones inflacionarias, la restauraci6n del
equilibrio en la balanza de pagos, y el mejoramiento de las
relaciones con acreedores externos, el restablecimiento del ritmo
del crec.iiento econ6mico fue fragil y la posici6n externa del pals
continuo  siendo  dibil,  debido  al  pobre  desempeiio  de  las
exportaciones y a los pagos tan elevados en
el servicio de la deuda externa.
%El desempeiio del Banco resulto crucial en esta etapa de
preparacion para la puesta en marcha del primer prestamo de ajuste
eutructural, hasta culminar en el mes de agosto de 1985 con la
aprobaci6n por parte de la AsambleaL egialativa del Convenio de
Prestamo conocido como SAL I, orientado a inicar una aerie de
ajustes economicos a nivel global y sectorial.  Mediante el primer
Programa de Ajuste Estructural asociado con el'SAL I, se reforzaron
los *sfuerzos del Cobierno en las ireas de saneamiento fiscal y
financiero, eficiencia productiva y promocion de las exportaciones
no tradicionales.
Hacia mayo de 1986, con la nueva Administracion, el programa
de estabil.izacion fue fortalecido con med$das diseiiadas para
reducir aun mas el deficit consolidado del Sector Pfiblico, un
programa uonetario orientado iacia la contenci6n de las presiones
inflacionarias, y unaL politica de tipo de cambio destinada a lograr
el balance en los pagos externos.
Duranto el anio 1987, se tomo la decisi6n.de profundizar ei
proceso de ajuste con e1. apoyo de un segundo Programa de Ajuste
Estructural por medio del ceal sQ pretendia lograr una recuperaci6n.
sostenida de la economia, una posici6n externa mis fuerto
encabezada por actividades. exportadoras del sector privado y un
eficiente sector productivo que sea capaz de financiar los procesos
de desarrollo social y politico quo definen y distinguen el estilo
costa=ricense de desarrollo. Sin embargo, aparte del proceso de
desgravaci6n arancelaria, los ajustes se centraron en la correcci6n
de algunos aspectos relativamente puntuales, y no se atacaron en
profundidad las rigideces estructurales presentes en la economia
nacional.   Ademas, la ayuda  internacional percibida de otras



-61-
Pas 3 of 4
fuentes permiti6 continuar con ese estilo de ajuste moderado de los
desequilibrios estructurales propios de la exacerbada presencia del
Sector Piblico en la economia, y de las debilLdades inherentes al
sistema productivo y sus vinculaciones externas.
En esta segunda fase, el apoyo del Banco Mundial en los
t&rminos del tercer prestamo de ajuste estructuxal cofinanciado por
The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund de Jap6n, fue altamente
satisfactorio para la implementacion de reformas en las politicas
de comercio, manejo del sector pyiblico, intermadiacion financiera
y fijacion'de precios agricolas.
La concepci6n misma de la !uegunda fa se del ajuste estructural
fue tarea en la que el aporte del Banco resulto invaluable hasta
llegar a concretar el segundo pre"stamo, el cual quedo fonmal.mente
ratificado por la Asamblea Legislativa en octubre de 1989.
En la etapa de implementacion de este segundo prestamo fu. mis
visible la presencia orientadora del Banco para corregir deavios o
parp  ayudar en la buisqueda de salidas a impasses en la puesta en
prictica de medidas concretas que se contabilizaban en las
condicionalidades del p$estamo.
DESEIPENO DEL PRESTATRIO
Todo enjuiciamiento del desompsno del prestatario en el
contexto de1 ajuste estructural, debe considerar los elementoa de
orden politico que pesan fuertemente en el disoiio y la ejecuci6n de
las nedidas de politica concretas para implementar el programa
correspondiente.
Dentro de esas restricciones politicas en que se acota la
accion del Gobierno en la puesta en zarcha del Programa de Ajuste
Estructural, podemos afirmar quo pare la primera fase (PAE-I), el
desempeno del Prestatario no tuvo grandes contratiempos ni an la
etapa de concepeion de las medidas con el apoyo del Banco nl en la
de aprobacion legislativa. Era el primer experimento de eate tipo
y el propio Banco estaba aprendiendo de los contenidos y alcances
de este tipo de instrumentos para apoyar a los paises que requerian
de un programa comprensivo-de ajuste estructural.
Quizis el desewpeno del Prestatareo no fus del todo eficiente
durante la sogunda fase (PAR-II), por cuanto el menu de pollticas
por poner en escena fue aumentado y los intereses de grupoa por
afectar fueron mis evidentes. De ahi quizia la prolongacion on e1
tiempo quo exhibe la etapa de implemontacian.  So exigla tanta
gradualidad al Prestatario por parte de los grupos de poder en la
aplicacion do las medidas de ajuste, que no es sino hasta el lo. do
diciembre de 1992 en que entra a regir el 'ultimo tracto de
desgravaciones arancelarias para los rubros de textiles, -calzado y
confeccionn.



- 62 -
Pago 4 of 4
El Gobierno de Costa Rica reconoce gue no es taresa facil
lograr un crecimiento estable y sostenido, en el cual la
modernizaci6n y diversificaci6n de la estructura productiva tengan
adem&s la capacidad de mantener sanamente los niveles de vida y la
estructura  social  que  caracterizan  al  estilo  de  vida  del
costarricense. El proloncado debate de aproximadamente diez mesas
a que fue sometido el segundb prestamo de ajuste estructural,
refleja esas limitaciones a que debe hacer frente un pro7rama de
ajusto  estructural,  par  mejor  estructurado  que  este.    La
negociaci6n  politica  y  la  bCusqueda  de  consenso,  son  dos
ingredientes clave que no pueden soslayarse en el proceso de
concepcion e implementaci6n de las medidas del ajuste estructural
en Costa Rica.
El Prestatario es consciente de esas restricciones, y las
lecciones aprendidas de las etapas previas le han servido para
aplicarlas en las actuales circunstancias en qua se negocia un
tercer prcstamo de ajuste estructural.
L4 necesidad de enfrentar un tortuoso proceso de reeducacion
politica de grupos de poder para viabilizar medidas que profundicen
el ajuste estructural hasta ahora alcanzado, es quizas la principal
leccion  aprendida  en  estos  siete aios  de la experiencia  de
implementaci6n del Programa de Ajuste Estructural.
mEr&CION ENMRE EL BWCO Y EL PRESTA5ARIO
Las relaciones mant3nidas entre el Banco y el Prestatario han
sido plenamente satisfaczorias desde la perspectiva del Gobierno de
*Costa Rica, en torno al apoyo del primero en el campo del ajuste
estructural.
Las misiones preparatorias de los pristamos y las de
seguimiento, han sido muy fructiferas y oportunas. Las prlperas
para concretar el apoyo y las segundas Vara enmendar yerros o para
hacer avanzar el programa.en la direccion convenida con el Banco y
satisfactoria para los intereses nacionales.
DESEXPEkO Y REIACION DEL COFINkCIADOR PEL PAZ-Il
Sobre esto punto, la apreciacion que tiene el Prestatario eo
quo las relaciones con The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(Japon), cofinanciador del Segundo Prestamo de Ajuste Estructural
se han manejado satisfactoriamente con el Banco Central dentro de
las normativas acordadas con el primero.



