Page  1
January 31, 1992
Ing.  Rodolfo Mendez Mata 
Minister
Ministry of Finance 
San Jose, Costa Rica
Re:
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3005-CR)
Pending Audit Reports
Amendment of paragraph 3(b)  of Schedule 1 to Loan Agreement
Dear Minister Mendez:
This is in connection with Loan Agreement between Republic of Costa Rica and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated December 16, 
1988 for the captioned Loan (the Loan Agreement).  Thank you for your telex of January 
23, 1992 discussing the understandings reached, in principle, between you and Mr. 
Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria.  I am happy that the Government of Costa Rica has agreed to 
take measures to provide for quick and satisfactory solutions to the pending problems 
of the audits of First Structural Adjustment Loan - Ln.# 2518-CR (SAL I) and the 
captioned Loan (SAL II).
It is our understanding that these measures will include the following actions 
to be taken by the Government of Costa Rica.
a.
Audit of Second Tranche of SAL I. The Central Bank shall provide the 
auditors new statements of expenditures (SOES) for about US$ 43 million equivalent.  
The auditors would select a sample of about 20 percent of the total value of the SOEs 
presented.  Once the audit sample is determined, the Ministry of Finance shall provide 
supporting documents commensurate to the value of the selected sample from Customs 
files and other appropriate records. on that basis, the auditors will produce a 
supplemental audit report for the disbursements of this tranche.
b.
SAL II - Audit of First Tranche (as defined in Section 1.02(c) of the 
Loan Agreement).    The Central Bank will provide new SOEs dated after August 12, 1988 
and before December 17, 1988 to the auditors, with an aggregate value of not less than 
US$ 6.033.193 equivalent.  These new SOEs will substitute for the imports that were 
made before the period specified in the Loan Agreement.  On that basis, the auditors 
will produce a supplemental audit report for the disbursements of the First Tranche 
corresponding to US$ 6.033.193 equivalent.
c.
SAL II -Audit of Second Tranche (as defined in Section 1.02(d) of the 
Loan Agreement). The Government shall submit to the Bank the audit report of the 
Second Tranche, fully disbursed on July 7, 1991.
d.
SAL II - Pre-audit of SOEs statement of expenditures to be submitted in 
support of withdrawal applications for the Third Tranche (as defined in Section 1.02 
(e) of the Loan Agreement).  The SOEs to be presented to the Bank in support of the 
withdrawal applications shall be accompanied by an unqualified audit opinion issued by 
an audit firm acceptable to the Bank.
The carrying out of all action requested to bring to fruition all of the above 
points, including the reception by the Bank of four unqualified opinions on all audit 
reports referred to above, shall be deemed incorporated under paragraph 3(b) of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as additional conditions to withdrawal of Loan 
proceeds under the Third Tranche.
If you are in agreement with the aforesaid, please indicate so as representative 
of the Republic of Costa Rica under Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement, by signing, 
dating and returning to us the attached form of confirmation.   In view of his 
interest in the above, we are copying this letter to Mr. Jorge Guardia, President of 
the Central Bank of Costa Rica.
Page  2
Agreed by Republic of Costa Rica
Minister of Finance
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
