Page  1
The Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Republic of Costa Rica
San Jose
Costa Rica
Re:
Loan No. 3005-CR  Second Structural Adjustment Loan
 
Dear Mr. Minister:
We refer to the loan agreement (the IBRD Agreement) dated December 16, 1988 
between the Government of Costa Rica (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in respect of the above-mentioned loan, and 
to the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Overseas Economic 
Fund-Japan (OECF) (the OECF Loan Agreement) under
which the OECF will provide a loan to the Borrower.
In view of the provisions of the OECF Agreement we would propose the following 
amendments to the IBRD Agreement:
1.
The preamble is amended by the addition thereto of a new paragraph after the 
paragraph commencing "WHEREAS (A)" as follows:
"WHEREAS (B) by an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement), dated July 28, 
1989 The 
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan (OECF) has agreed to 
make a loan (the OECF Loan) 
to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of 
twelve billion four hundred and 
sixty-eight million Japanese Yen to assist in 
financing the Program on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the OECF Loan 
Agreement; and
2.
The paragraph presently commencing with the words "WHEREAS (B)" is amended to 
commence instead with the words "WHEREAS (C)".
3.
Article IV is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
 
Please confirm your agreement to the above amendments by signing and dating the 
attached duplicate original in the space provided below and returning it to us.  
Whereupon this amendment
shall come into force on the later of the following two dates: the date of 
countersignature by you of this letter, or the date on which the IBRD Agreement shall 
become effective.
Yours sincerely,
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:
December 4, 1989
Page  2
