Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3005 CR
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 3005 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 26, 1988 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required during 
such execution; and
WHEREAS (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."; and
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"Tranche" means a portion of the Loan to be made available by the Bank to 
the Borrower on the Effective Date for the First Tranche (as such term is hereinafter 
defined) and upon the adoption of the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement for the Second and Third tranches;
(c)
"First Tranche" means a Tranche, as so defined, not exceeding the 
equivalent of $40,000,000 to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(d)
"Second Tranche" means a Tranche, as so defined, not exceeding the 
equivalent of $35,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon compliance by the Borrower 
of the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Third Tranche" means a Tranche, as so defined, not exceeding the 
equivalent of $25,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon compliance by the Borrower 
of the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Colon" and "Colones" mean the currency unit of the Borrower;
 
(g)
"Subsidized Credit" means credit granted at interest rates lower than the 
six-month average deposit interest rate paid by all Public Commercial Banks for a 
comparable period, published by the Central Bank of Costa Rica;
(h)
"Public Commercial Bank" means Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, Banco 
Anglo-Costarricense, Banco de Costa Rica and Banco de Credito Agricola de Cartago, or 
any successor thereto;
(i)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central de Costa Rica, the Borrower's Central 
Bank; and
(j)
"Legislacion" means the legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
approved by the Borrower to revise its Tariff Law.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1991 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the  Borrower the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period"  means  the six-month period commencing on each 
date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in 
which this Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
The first such exchange of views shall take place not later than July 31, 
1989, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
Page  4
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to  the  Bank  such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following  event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Legislacion has been approved by the Borrower's 
Legislative Assembly and published in the Diario Oficial.
Section 5.02. The date March 16, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  5
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 5016-1000
San Jose
Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MIN HAC
FAX:
(506) 338 267
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Danilo Jimenez Veiga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
Page  6
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
  -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
  -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
  -
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525
  -
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
  -
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for
nuclear reactors
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares (including set gems)
971
  -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after August 13, 1988;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of: (a) $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
Page  7
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program, and (ii) that the actions related to the release of the 
Second Tranche described in paragraph (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been 
taken; and (b) $75,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program, and (ii) that the actions related to the release of the Third Tranche 
described in paragraph (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.
If, after any of the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Bank 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1994
through February 15, 2006
4,165,000
 
On August 15, 2006
4,205,000
 
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding
on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
Page  8
multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods (other than petroleum and petroleum 
products) estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded 
through international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), 
subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation 
in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or 
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted. 
 
2.
Contracts for goods (other than petroleum and petroleum products) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the 
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Page  9
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the  Loan  Account in respect thereof, such 
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support withdrawal 
applications in respect of such contract.
5.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not apply to contracts 
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) (ii) and
(b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(a)
With relation to the release of the Second Tranche:
 
1.
The Borrower shall have reduced the ceiling of each of its import tariffs from 
the respective level prevailing as of June 30, 1988 (the Ceiling), so as to achieve 
certain levels of reduction of the Ceiling for each six-month period or fraction 
thereof between such date and the date of the corresponding exchange of views taking 
place pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, said levels to be measured as a 
fraction of the difference (the Difference) between the Ceiling and 40%, as follows: 
one-sixth (1/6) of the Difference in respect of (i) all imported items with the 
exception of (ii) textiles, apparel and footware, where the fraction shall be of 
one-tenth (1/10) of the Difference and (iii) strategic goods and non-competing imports 
(as specified in Annex II to the Program) which shall not be necessarily subject to 
reduction; provided, however, that the aggregate reductions to be achieved pursuant to 
the preceding provisions shall be of not less than three-sixths (3/6) of the 
Difference, in respect of items under (i) above and of not less than three-tenths 
(3/10) of the Difference, in respect of items under (ii) above.
2.
Banco Central shall have taken all necessary measures to reduce, by June 30, 
1989, the prior deposit in colones required from importers purchasing foreign 
exchange, from 50% to not more than 30% of the amount of foreign exchange purchased.
3.
The Borrower's new export incentive system, established by the Export Incentive 
Law shall be in operation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 1989.
4.
The Borrower shall have taken all necessary measures to eliminate, during 1988, 
the Consejo Nacional de Produccion's direct price subsidies to consumers of beans, 
corn and rice.
5.
The Borrower shall have taken measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the 
difference between domestic official producer prices for corn and the average prices 
of the past 5 years of their international equivalent (determined in accordance with a 
methodology satisfactory to the Bank) to a maximum of 50%.
6.
The Borrower shall have taken measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the 
difference between domestic official producer prices for beans and the average prices 
of the past 5 years of their international equivalent (determined in accordance with a 
methodology satisfactory to the Bank) to a maximum of 45%.
7.
The Borrower shall have taken measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the 
difference between domestic official producer prices for rice and the average prices 
of the past 5 years of their international equivalent (determined in accordance with a 
methodology satisfactory to the Bank) to a maximum of 40%.
8.
The Borrower shall have taken all necessary measures to permit private traders 
to import beans, corn and rice in case of insufficient domestic supplies, including 
the establishment of a market system for the granting of import licenses for said 
Page  10
products.
9.
The Public Commercial Banks' over 180-day overdue portfolio shall have been 
reduced to 5% of the total outstanding loans made by such Banks as of December 31, 
1988, and to 4% as of June 30, 1989.
10.
The Subsidized Credit granted by Public Commercial Banks from their internally 
generated resources shall have been kept at the December 31, 1986 level of 5.3 billion 
Colones or shall have increased by no more than five percentage points (5%) in real 
terms, and the Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that 
such increase is of a temporary nature.
 
11.
The Borrower shall have issued regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at:
 
(i)
allowing banks to charge penalty interest rates for debts not paid 
at their 
maturities;
 
(ii)
prohibiting banks to register as income interest accrued on loans 
that have 
been past due for more than 180 days;
 
(iii)
instructing banks to publish their annual financial statements 
(balance sheets 
and income statements) in newspapers with nation-wide 
circulation; and
(iv)
requiring banks to have their financial statements audited by 
external auditors.
 
12.
The Borrower shall have reached an annual public sector savings level of not 
less than 5.7% of the gross domestic product in fiscal year 1988, and established a 
budgetary target of at least 6% of the gross domestic product for fiscal year 1989. 
13.
The Borrower shall have  been  executing, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
its projected 1988-1990 investment program furnished to the Bank as an annex to the 
Program.
14.
The Borrower shall not have proposed, during fiscal year 1988, new legislation 
establishing earmarked tax revenues.
(b)
With relation to the release of the Third Tranche:
 
1.
The Borrower's new export incentive system established by the Export Incentive 
Law shall have been functioning in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall have maintained all measures taken pursuant to paragraph (a) 
4. above.
3.
The Borrower shall have continued to grant licenses to permit private traders to 
import beans, corn and rice.
4.
The Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
Subsidized Credit has been kept at the level referred to in paragraph (a) 10. above.
5.
The Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
regulations referred to in paragraph (a) 11. above have continued to be in effect.
6.
The Borrower shall have been executing, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
the investment program referred to in paragraph (a) 13. above.
7.
The Borrower shall have put into effect further reductions of the Ceiling 
pursuant to paragraph (a) 1. above, provided that the aggregate reduction to be 
achieved shall be of not less than four-sixths (4/6) of the Difference, in respect of 
items under paragraph (a) 1.(i) above, and of not less than four-tenths (4/10) of the 
Difference, in respect of items under paragraph (a) 1.(ii) above.
8.
Banco Central shall have taken all necessary measures to reduce, by December 31, 
1989, the prior deposit referred to in paragraph (a) 2. above to not more than 10% of 
the amount of foreign exchange purchased.
Page  11
9.
The Public Commercial Banks' over 180-day overdue portfolio shall have been 
reduced to 3% of the total outstanding loans made by such Banks as of December 31, 
1989.
10.
The Borrower shall have taken measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to establish 
for fiscal year 1990 the producer support prices for corn, beans and rice at levels 
not higher than 1.4 times the average prices of the past five years of their 
international equivalent (determined in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to 
the Bank).
11.
The Borrower shall have reached an annual public sector savings level of not 
less than 6% of the gross domestic product in fiscal year 1989, and established a 
budgetary target of at least 6% of the gross domestic product for fiscal year 1990.
12.
The Borrower shall not have proposed, during fiscal year 1989, new legislation 
establishing earmarked tax revenues.
