Document of    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2964-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
EIGHTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
February 25, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 18, 1981)
Rs 1           =         Paise  100
US$1.00        =        Rs   8.185
Rs 1.00        =         US$ 0.1222
Rs 1 million             US$122,200
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions in
the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
GOI    -  Government of India
P&T    -  Posts and Telegraphs Department
OCS    -  Overseas Communications Service
ITI    -  Indian Telephone Industries Limited
HCL    -  Hindustan Cables Limited
HTL    -  Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
BPE    -  Bureau of Public Enterprises
ERC    -  Economic Research Cell
DEL    -  Direct Exchange Line
PCO    -  Public Call Office
OYT    -  'Own Your Telephone' Program
SDR    -  Special Drawing Right



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
EIGHTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:   Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T);
Indian Telephone Industries Ltd. (ITI);
Hindustan Cables Ltd. (HCL); and
Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL)
Amount:           SDR 252.4 million.
(US$314 million equivalent on January 31, 1981)
Terms:            Standard
Relending
Terms:          For P&T Subproject:  Government of India (GOI)
would channel the proceeds as GOI's capital-at-charge
to P&T, in accordance with its standard arrangements
for financing telecommunications development. P&T pays
a dividend on the total capital-at-charge at a rate
determined by GOI, currently 6% per annum.
For Factories Subprojects: GOI to ITI, HCL, and HTL:
at an interest rate to be determined by GOI at the time
of lending, comparable to the prevailing interest rate,
and acceptable to the Association. Currently the terms
are 11% per annum, less 1/4% prompt payment discount,
over fifteen years, including three years' grace.
GOI to carry exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The project comprises four subprojects.  The main
subproject covers a three-year time slice, from fiscal
year 1981 to 1983, of the P&T Telecommunications Branch's
investment program. It involves expansion of the present
telecommunications network through the provision of addi-
tional local telephone switching and direct exchange
lines, long-distance public call offices and rural tele-
phone exchanges, and trunk and telex facilities. The
subproject also includes the provision of equipment and
raw materials for P&T's telecommunications workshops;
equipment for P&T's Telecommunications Research Center
and its Technical and Development Circle; transmission
equipment; and computing equipment for the four major
metropolitan districts. The three remaining subprojects
comprise the upgrading and modernization of the produc-
tion facilities of the three major Government-owned
telecommunications equipment manufacturers -- Indian
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Telephone Industries Ltd., Hindustan Cables Ltd., and
Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. -- and the construction of a
new factory for each. The upgrading and modernization
activities involve the replacement of machinery in the
production and tool-making units, and the addition of
modern testing and measuring equipment to replace and
supplement obsolete existing equipment. New factories to
be established comprise an ITI electronic switching pro-
duction facility at Palghat in Kerala, an HCL cable fac-
tory at Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh, and an HTL elec-
tronic teleprinter factory at Hosur in Tamil Nadu. There
are no serious technical risks in implementing the pro-
ject.
Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Subproject                              Local        Foreign         Total
P&T Subproject:                     1,074.0        211.0        1,285.0
ITI Subproject:
a) Factory Upgrading and
Modernization                   5.3         11.0           16.3
b)  New Factory                      10.1         10.7           20.8
HCL Subprolect:
a) Factory Upgrading and
Modernization                   5.9          9.4           15.3
b)  New Factory                      20.1         21.9           42.0
HTL Subprolect:
a)  Factory Upgrading and             2.1          2.6            4.7
Modernization
b)  New Factory                       4.8          5.1            9.9
Total Before Contingencies              1,122.3        271.7        1,394.0
Contingencies                             183.1         42.3          225.4
Total Project Cost                      1,305.4        314.0        1,619.4
Taxes and Duties included                 239.9          -            239.9
Project Cost Net of Taxes              1,065.5         314.0        1,379.5
and Duties



-iii-
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local        Foreign      Total
IDA                                        -            314.0      314.0
P&T                                    1,250.0            -       l1,250.0
ITI                                       18.2            -          18.2
HCL                                       29.3            -          29.3
HTL                                        7.9            -           7.9
Total             1,305.4          314.0    1,619.4
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year                           FY81   FY82   FY83      FY84   FY85
Annual                                  40.0   73.0   108.5   77.5   15.0
Cumulative                              40.0  113.0   221.5  299.0  314.0
Rate of Return:  17%, for the P&T Subproject (including purehases from
domestic factories).
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3169-IN, dated February 23, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
EIGHTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 252.4 million
(US$314 million on January 31, 1981) on standard IDA terms to help finance
an eighth telecommunications project. The major portion of the credit
amount (about US$243 million) would be channelled to the Posts and Tele-
graphs (P&T) Department as part of GOI's capital-at-charge, in accordance
with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing telecommunica-
tions development. P&T pays a dividend on total capital-at-charge at a
rate fixed by GOI, currently 6% per annum. The balance of the credit
(about US$71 million) would be relent to the public sector companies par-
ticipating in the project, at an interest rate to be determined by GOI at
the time of lending, comparable to the prevailing commercial interest
rate, and acceptable to the Association. Currently the terms are 11% per
annum, less 1/4% prompt payment discount, for 15 years, including three
years' grace. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an ade-
quate livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, espe-
cially the landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost
(measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7%
in 1978/79. The share of industry has increased over the same period from
14.5% to 22.7%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb
the growing labor force, nor to bring about the substantial economic
transformation that has led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same ass Parts
I and II of the President's Report for Madhya Pradesh Medium Irriga-
tion Project (No. P-2961-IN dated February 18, 1981).



-2-
in some other developing countries.  The urban population was 18% of the
total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate
of GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agri-
culture -- 2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall
growth, not only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also
because scarce foreign exchange has often been required to import food.
Industrial value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between
1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth has not been as high as in many other
countries, nor as high as required. Gross domestic saving more than dou-
bled from 10% of GDP in 1Q50/51 to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly, gross
domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from 10% in 1950/51 to just
over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion
of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early
1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much lower
levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of
CTP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued
a strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world
trade has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of
growth of imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of
exports. During the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically,
spurring a relatively rapid period of export growth through the mid-1970s.
For the five years ending in 1976/77 the volume of India's exports grew on
average over 10% per annum, demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Mid-
dle East, contributed to this process, adjustments in trade policies
designed to improve the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to lQ78/79, growth in real GDP (at fac-
tor cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged
4.7%, 2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a
marginally better growth performance than the long-term trends from
1950/51 to 1975/76. However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3%
in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural
production and input constraints in other sectors, bringing recent trends
back in line with the long-term picture. Industrial production stagnated
in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the production of major inputs
such as coal, steel and cement, as well as constraints in the provision of



-3-
infrastructure, notably power and transportation. As a consequence of
these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1475 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal
year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1Q79 the price index rose
sharply, and under the drought conditions, which were then quite serious,
prices failed to make the normal downward adjustment over the winter. The
result was that the level of prices at the end of the year (1979/80) were
almost 20% above the level at the beginning of the year. Foodgrain prices
rose over the summer and fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed
close to the Goverment's ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas
were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices through the pub-
lic distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains also pro-
vided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program for
low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
apDropriate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly
evident and have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural
production, which had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to
record levels each year, fell about 10% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production
is estimated to have declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 116
million tons in 1979/80. Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute
drought, coming after two successive years of record output, the foodgrain
production achieved -- still the fourth highest in Indian history -- pro-
vides a measure of the contribution that expanded irrigation, extension
and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture. Furthermore, the capa-
city of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought conditions
might have been even more clearly demonstrated had not the diesel shor-
tages inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in
the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Addi-
tions to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million
hectares during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 mil-
lion additional hectares a year during the most recent three-year period.
Fertilizer consumption in 1q79/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons,
twice the level consumed in 1974/75.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of
the late lQ7Os, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again over-
taken domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter
appears limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30%
in the household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely
on enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending
resource scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between
1975/76 and lQ78/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfort-
ably small in relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid com-
mitments. This was primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements
and rapidly growing net invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends



-4-
in the volume of exports, which has barely grown since 1976/77. Particu-
larly serious is the evident decline in the quantum of manufactured non-
traditional exports which had contributed much to the export growth of the
first half of the decade. A combination of strong domestic and slack
international demand, exacerbated until recently by apparent lessened
interest in export promotion, have been the major causal factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and
there have been important changes in composition. As a result of the
accumulation and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports --
which had been a traditional item in the balance of payments -- have
declined to insignificant levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of
the liberalized import policy adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain
imports increased sharply, so that their level in 1978/79 was over 80%
higher than in 1975/76. In large part, the liberalization in import pol-
icy and increase in imports were limited to raw materials, basic commodi-
ties and intermediate goods; consumer goods remained banned and capital
goods imports were permitted only on a selective basis. Strong new pres-
sures on the balance of payments have developed during 1979/80. The terms
of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of unexpectedly
large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import bill to
double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US82.5 hillion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill
to about USSl1 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of merchandise
exports now exceed 44%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have
the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the
industrial sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it
nevertheless has a highly diversified structure and is capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Rasic infrastructure
-- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope for
expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and
ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and suf-
ficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the pro-
cess of formulating its policies and programs. AKnew Plan for the period
1OP1485 is being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83.
At this stage it is not possible to corment in detail on the new develop-
ment strategy; however, it is clear that the priorities accorded to



-5-
agriculture and power will be maintained. Furthermore, developments in
India as well as in the world economy during 1979/80 have brought to the
surface urgent issues which will need the attention of policy-makers,
irrespective of the broader context of development strategy that the new
Government may adopt.  Armong these issues are the following:  (a)  the
bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production of
several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for
imported petroleum; and, (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance
of payments in the near future.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur
well for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to
existing demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally
low growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport ser-
vices, steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have
benefitted from large investments in the recent past may not materialize
unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel
and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds
of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to pro-
mote further investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although
in 197Q/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the
shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import the final product ---power
and transportation-- the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more
crucial.  Although there is scope for improvement in the shortrun perfor-
mance of these sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization
programs as well as new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate
and stable growth in the mediurt term. The presence of infrastructual con-
straints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the
expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarc:e
resources with significant implications for public versus private and
short versus long-term investments.
13.     The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be rever sed in
the near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for
India. India imports the equivalent of almost two-thirds of its petroleum
consumption. In order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on
foreign oil, the Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration
program, to increase the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to
increase the development of India's considerable hydroelectric potential.
However, recent shortages of coal and power are symptomatic of operational
problems reflecting, in part, past planning and investment decisions which
are inhibiting the timely implementation of India's long-term conversion
program.



-6-
14.     In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies,
development programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining
a period of high growth during the 1980s. India ended the 1979/80 rabi
season with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported
foodgrains during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of
1978/79, but also reflects the trends of the last five years during which
substantial foodgrain stocks were built up while imports were reduced to
negligible levels. In view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural
inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate, the long-run
prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable. Per-
sistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis
on foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly
falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of
foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, and diversification to the production of other higher
value crops. This prospect will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis
rather than a dramatic break with past policies.
15.     Foreien exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situa-
tion is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties
in the prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious
and rapid deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.
Reserves were only marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a
year earlier and, in terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month
level for the first time since 1977. A sharp decline in the reserve level
is expected in 1980/Rl. At best, India's reserves may provide a cushion
for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance of aid
flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years.
Investments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete
with longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's con-
liderable physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives
will place a difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year
Plan. The primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate
domestic adjustment policies, although the aid community can and should
play an important role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to
inadequate foreign resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the
rate of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement
level) will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the



-7-
population of India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase
of about 81% over the mid-1080 level of 663 million. Family planning has
played an important role in achieving the fertility decline in the past
decade, and the extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by
the continuation of a successful official family planning program. The
family planning performance data for 1978/79 and the first ten months of
lQ7Q/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp decline observed in
virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78. Except for male
sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive methods sur-
passed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the total
acceptors of IPT) and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Data
for the first ten months of 197Q/80 confirm a secular upward trend in
overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major attempts
to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have opted
for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained
population growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special
attention to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income
groups. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless
laborers and small farmers. In addition to marginal holdings of physical
assets, the poor are ill-endowed with human resources, being dispropor-
tionately represented among the illiterate, the malnourished and those
having otherwise poor health status. Improvements in the living standards
of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture and non-farm
rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment opportunities in
urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from market
forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate govern-
ment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the
scope for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farners and rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of
those services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve
living standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs
Program which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past
decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary
education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision of
secure village water supplies. Recent innovations, including the commmn-
ity health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign, are
encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can
lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPEPATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, ITS$1,133 million had
been repaid, and US$4,107 million was still undisbursed as of January 31,
1981. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year
through January 31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling
US$110.6 million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 mil-
lion sold and US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 mil-
lion, USA46.2 million represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A sum-
mary statement of IFC operations as of January 31, 1981, is also included
in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.
The Bank r-roup has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation
and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and
in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, a7ricultural extension, and dairying are other agricul-
tural activities supported by the Bank rroup. Also, the Bank Group has
been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions,
in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale indus-
trial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitat-
ing better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been
active in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunica-
tions, and railways. Family planning, water supply development, urban
investments and the development of oil and natural gas have also received
Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The
emphasis of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other
infrastructure sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to
foster agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs,
particularly water and credit for on-farm investments, will continue to
receive emphasis.   Improved water management and intensification and
streamlining of extension systems form an important institution-building
aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers. The Bank
Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector also assists India in the
more efficient provision of another key input in the agricultural growth



process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, urban development
and investments in the petroleum sector also form an integral part of the
Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several years.  Lending in
support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on those
subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on India's
overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consor-
tium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.
However, there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to
an even greater deterioration in balance of pavments anticipated during
the 1980s by augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As
in the past, Pank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to
include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to he small in most projects. This is partibularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supp:Ly.
24.       india's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible,
external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and
should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount oE IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support. Therefore, India should be eligi-
ble and regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The
ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79
and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31,
1981, outstanding loans to India held by the Rank totalled US$1,766 mil-
lion, of which US$561 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Rank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disburse-
ments, and 12% of net disbursements as compared with 64%, 60% and over
100%, respectively, in 1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank
Group's share was US$5.2 billion or 34% (IDA's IJS$4.5 billion and IBRD's
US$0.7 billion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly
in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.O0 of India's total debt service payments
were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
26.       W4hile India has a comparatively large telecommunications network
by world standards, with more than two million direct exchange lines
(DELs) and more than two and a half million telephones, the quantity and
quality of telephone and telex services is poor compared to many other
countries. India's 1978 telephone density (number of telephones per 100
population) of 0.36 is low compared with other countries in Asia: Malaysia
- 2.86; Philippines - 1.26; Thailand - 0.8; and Sri Lanka - 0.5. The
average for developing countries in Asia for which statistics are
available is about 0.6, while the world average is 10.2. The telephone
density in the major cities of India is also low compared with principal
cities in other countries. Densities vary from about 2 for cities such as
Hyderabad, Calcutta and Lucknow, to close to 4 for Delhi and Bombay. This
compares with telephone densities of 4.8 for Bangkok; 7.7 for Manila; 8.7
for Tehran; 11.2 for Yairobi; and 19.6 for Singapore.
27.       The present official waiting list for telephone service in India
is about 336,000, of which about 197,000 are in the four major cities.
The waiting list has grown at an average rate of 16% per year over the
past four years, and more than 30% per year in the last two years.
Moreover, manv rural areas and towns are without service, and thus have no
officially recorded waiting list. Consequently there is a high level of
suppressed or hidden demand.
28.       Away from the larger towns the telephone service is provided by
a network of long distance public call offices (PCOs) which comprise a
single line with a telephone connecting the town or village to the
national telephone network. As demand in a town grows, a small telephone
exchange is installed at the PCO and the original line used as a trunk
circuit to the network. In March 1980, there were about 14,000 PCOs and
5,000 small (less than 100 lines) telephone exchanges. However, of the
45,000 towns with a population exceeding 2,000, less than half have
telephone facilities, either in the form of a long distance PCO or a
telephone exchange.
29.       Due to the significant shortage of telephone lines and the
resultant network overloading, the calling rates in most large cities in
India are extremely high, and the probability of making a successful call
at the first attempt is relatively low. This situation brings about
repeated call attempts to busy numbers and, as a result, generates
additional traffic throughout the network. This not only creates
congestion in the call handling plant, which is shared by all subscribers,
but also substantially increases the overall probability of encountering a
busy subscriber.
30.       Such congestion is not limited to the local network.  A high



-11-
level of congestion also exists in the long distance network, this being
brought about partly as a result of the local network congestion, and
partly by the inadequate provision of trunk switching equipment. For
example, only about 77% of attempted manual trunk calls are ultimately
successful and the probability of a successful automatic subscriber
dialled trunk call at the first attempt is less than 50%. Manual trunk
calls often encounter delays of more than four hours, although it is
possible to pay higher charges for a priority connection. In the longer
term, however, the most effective method of improving the trunk service
will be to expand the automatic trunk network and upgrade the quality and
reliability of the network overall. The new five-year plan (covering
fiscal years 1981-85), currently in preparation, provides for additions to
the automatic trunk switching system and for measures to monitor and
improve system performance, both of which will help alleviate congestion.
Sector Organization
31.       The telecommunications sector in India is largely State-owned9
the most important entities being the Posts and Telegraphs Department
(P&T), the Overseas Communications Service (OrS), and three major public
sector telecommunications manufacturing companies. In addition, there
are numerous smaller private manufacturers who act as subcontractors to
the major manufacturers, as well as supplying direct to the P&T.
32.       The P&T is a Government department under the Jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Communications. It is controlled by a seven-member board of
senior executives, whose chairman is the Secretary of the Ministry of
Connunications. The board has adequate autonomy in policy formulation and
day-to-day operations. The Telecommunications Branch of P&T operates all
public telecommunications facilities within India and to adjacent
countries. It also carries out telecommunications research, development
and training activities through its Telecommunications Research Center and
its Technical and Development Circle.  The Overseas Communications
Service, a separate agency also under the Ministry of Communications,
operates all international communications with non-adjacent countries.
The telecommunications manufacturing industry consists in the main of
three public sector companies: Indian Telephone Industries Limited (ITI),
Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL), and Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL)
(see paras 43, 46 and 49). ITI manufactures telephone exchange equipment,
transmission equipment and telephone instruments. HCL manufactures almost
all of the telephone cable now used in the P&T network. HTL manufactures
teleprinters and miscellaneous telegraph, telex and data terminal
equipment. The Telecommunications Branch of P&T employs approximately
310,000 full-time staff, and the three manufacturers together have about
32,000 employees.



-12-
Sector Objectives
33.        The Government's new five-year plan, covering fiscal years
1981-85, supersedes and extends the previous 1979-83 five-year plan which
provided the basis for the Seventh Telecommunications Project. To provide
a sound, sectoral basis for its part of the new five-year plan, the P&T
prepared a ten-year plan designed to achieve a series of service
objectives by 1990. P&T's five-year plan (1981-85) has been established
within this longer-term context. The major objectives of the ten-year
plan are to expand the network to make telephone services more widely
available, to reduce the unsatisfied demand for access to telephone and
telex services, and to reduce the congestion that now exists in the
network. These objectives include the provision in urban areas of
telephone services, either through telephone exchanges or long distance
public telephones, to within five kilometers of most inhabited locations
in the country; the provision of an automatic long distance subscriber
trunk dialling network connecting all cities and towns with a population
of 50,000 or more; and the provision of telephone and telex connections on
demand by 1990. Other important sector objectives, concerned primarily
with improvements to the quality of service, include the adoption of new
technologies, the full automation of the local telephone exchange network,
and the replacement of obsolete and worn out equipment in the network as
needed. Domestic equipment manufacturing capabilities are also to be
greatly expanded.
34.       With regard to new technologies, the Government of India, in a
recent policy decision, plans to embark on a major program for the
introduction of modern electronic switching systems technology. The
decision is consistent with the Bank's view, which is based upon a
recognition of the world-wide trend toward the use of this type of
technology, and the belief that its early adoption is critical for the
successful least-cost development of the sector in India. In addition to
including new electronic switching and electronic teleprinter factories
under the proposed project, the Government has approved the establishment,
within P&T's current five-year plan period (1981-85), of two 500,000-
line-per-year local electronic switching equipment factories. These
factories would not only produce switching equipment at a lower cost than
with the present technology, but would also provide equipment of
considerably greater reliability and flexibility. The use of the new
technology should lead to reductions in equipment failure, reduced traffic
congestion in the national network, more efficient use of equipment space,
and improved services to subscribers.
35.       Given the scarcity of resources allocated to the
telecommunications sector in India, pricing policy is one means by which
the benefits of the sector can be focussed on high priority users. This
is being applied in India where currently the pricing mechanism is used to



-13-
control access to, and priority usage of, the system. Pricing policy is
further used to promote cheaper local service for those residing outside
the larger urban areas. In general, both subscri'?r deposits and monthly
telephone rental charges are lower in the smaller rural telephone service
areas.
The Bank's Role in the Sector
36.       The Bank Group has made seven loans and credits for
telecommunications since 1962. 7)uring this period, the number of
telephones installed has increased from 373,000 in 1962 to more than 2.6
million today; the trunk network has been expanded and modernized, and an
automatic telex network of about 18,000 subscribers has been established.
The Bank Group has also assisted the P&T in modernizing its organizational
and management structure, and in establishing an Economic Research Cell
(ERC) which has begun to analyze pricing, demand, and investment issues in
the sector. Bank Group support has also been instrumental in making
possible higher levels of investment in the telecommunications sector.
Equally important have been the Bank's contributions to institutional
improvement, which have helped P&T make more efficient use of available
resources. The success of Bank Group involvement with the Indian
telecommunications sector may also be judged by the declining dependence
of the P&T capital works programs on Bank Group financing. The Bank
Group's financing of the P&T construction program will drop from about 32%
in 1964 to a projected 15% in the period of the proposed project.
37.       In line with these developments, Bank emphasis within the sector
has heen changing during recent years. Present emphasis is directed more
towards alleviating the chronic congestion of the existing services, and
to pursuing the large-scale introduction of modern electronic
telecommunications technology. The problems of the three major
manufacturing entities in the sector are being addressed primarily through
the provision of the necessary capital equipment for upgrading and
modernizing the existing factories, and for establishing new factories to
exploit the benefits of modern technology. These steps will hetlp to
enhance the overall efficiency of factory operations and the
manufacturers' ability to supply reliable equipment and materiaLls to P&T
in adequate quantities and at reasonable cost.
38.       A project performance audit has been conducted on the third,
fourth and fifth lending operations to the telecommunications sector in
India. These projects were considered by the audit to be successful. The
audit for the fifth project observed that the aims for institutional and
organizational improvement had largely been achieved. However, the
provision of direct exchange lines had not been commensurate with the
growth in demand, and the quality of service continued to be inadequate.
In addition, the price rationing system for obtaining and using telephone
service needed to he retained as a means of allocating telephones and



-14-
alleviating some of the traffic congestion. The audit also stressed the
desirability of adopting electronic switching technology as a long-term
objective within the sector. These concerns have been addressed to a
considerable extent in the present project. The P&T's present five-year
plan, which forms the basis for the P&T subproject, raises considerably
the levels of investment in telecommunications. Although the prolections
show the unsatisfied demand for direct exchange lines rising in the short
term, they also indicate that based on an average growth rate of 12% per
annum, much of the demand can be satisfied as it occurs by 1990. The
subproject also contains a network upgrading component as a direct attempt
to improve the quality of service. For the time being, it will be
necessary for the relatively high prices for subscriber telephone access
and usage, which serve to depress demand and to allocate existing supplies
to high productivity users, to be maintained. Electronic switching
technology is also being introduced under the present project through the
establishment of an initial manufacturing capacity for these systems. The
proposed project will therefore assist considerably in satisfying the
maior recommendations of the project performance audit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was appraised in July, 1980, and a Staff Appraisal
Report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February, 1981. The Government of
India was represented by a delegation with Mr. B. S. Lamba as coordinator.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
40.       The P&T's 1981-85 five-year plan, involving a total capital
program of some US$4.3 billion, envisages the installation of 1.4 million
direct exchange lines, 3,500 telephone exchanges, 20,000 long distance
public call offices, and 1.5 million lines of automatic switching
equipment. In addition, new technologies such as electronic local, trunk
and telex exchanges will be introduced in the four large metropolitan
areas of Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras. The long distance telephone
system will also be improved through the use of communications satellites,
digital microwave systems, and other digital transmission media. New
technologies for the extension of telecommunications facilities to rural
regions and to backward, hilly and tribal areas are also planned for field
testing with a view to developing alternative technologies to meet the
particular needs in these areas.
41.       The proposed project is designed to help achieve these
objectives during the first three years (fiscal years 1981-83) of the
five-year plan, and includes the major part of the P&T's construction
program as well as the capital investment programs for ITI, HCL and HTL in



-15-
these years. It consists of four subprojects: (i) the Posts and
Telegraphs subproject; (ii) the Indian Telephone Industries subproject;
(iii) the Hindustan Cables subproject; and (iv) the Hindustan Teleprinters
subproject.
The P&T Subproject
42.        The P&T subproject accounts for almost US$1.5 billion of P&T's
three-year capital investment program of about US$2.1 billion. The
subproject will use a major portion of the credit proceeds (about US$243
million) to support P&T's investment program over the three-year period to
improve the quantity and quality of telecommunications services in India.
The investments to be financed for the expansion of the telecommtunications
network include the installation of 700,000 lines of local telephone
exchange equipment; the provision of subscribers' cable and associated
equipment which will permit the connection of 630,000 new direct exchange
lines; the provision of about 11,000 long distance public call offices and
1,600 telephone exchanges, mostly in rural areas; the extension of the
automatic trunk network by the provision of about 40,000 automatic trunk
switching terminals; the provision of about 6,200 telex facilities and
12,000 telegraph offices; and the installation of about 3.7 million pair
kilometers of underground telephone cables. In addition to these
network-related investments, several other important components are
included in the subproject: computing equipment to handle accounting,
directory enquiry, and telecommunications management activities for the
four metropolitan districts of Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and Madras; plant,
equipment and raw materials for the P&T telecommunications workshops;
testing and measuring equipment for P&T's Telecommunications Research
Center and its Technical and Development Circle; and transmission
equipment for trunks and junctions. A network upgrading program, designed
to improve the overall performance of the telephone network by reducing
the frequency and duration of faulty conditions and by improving the
quality of transmission and switching performance, is also included as
part of the subproject; plant and equipment for this program will also be
provided.
The ITI Subproject
43.       ITI is the largest of the three main telecommunications
equipment manufacturers, with total sales of about Rs 1,000 million
(US$119 million) in fiscal year 1980. Its production units consist of
factories located at Bangalore in Karnataka, Naini and Rae Bareli in Uttar
Pradesh, and Srinagar in Kashmir, employing a total of about 26,000
people, and an electronic switching division at Palghat in Kerala. The
company manufactures switching equipment, transmission equipment,
telephone instruments and other miscellaneous telecommunications
equipment. Approximately 85% of its output is purchased by P&T. A
further 13Z is sold to GOI entities such as the Indian Railways and the



-16-
Overseas Communications Service and to private industry, and about 2% is
exported.
44.       The ITI subproject accounts for about US$43 million of ITI's
three-year capital investment program of about US$122 million. The
subproject is intended to increase the quality and quantity of ITI's
current products and to commence larger scale production of electronic
switching equipment for rural trunk and private automatic exchanges, based
upon P&T's requirements for expansion of the telecommunications network.
It comprises two major components: the continuation of the upgrading and
modernization program begun under the Seventh Telecommunications Project;
and the establishment of a 150,000-line-per-year electronic switching
facility at Palghat. The upgrading and modernization activities for the
existing factories at Bangalore, Naini and Rae Bareli involve improving
the manufacturing processes for telephone instruments through redesign of
the instrument and through automation of the production processes for key
elements, in order to attain higher standards of quality and reliability
for the finished instrument. The total production of telephones at ITI is
expected to increase from the current level of about 500,000 per year to
about 750,000 per year by fiscal year 1983. The manufacturing processes
for transmission equipment at the Bangalore and Naini factories will also
be improved. The emphasis in this case is on improved quality control and
higher reliability of transmission equipment products. This will be
brought about primarily through the introduction of automatic testing
facilities for electronic components and associated systems, and a new
facilitity for the manufacture of modern printed circuit boards. The
value of the total annual production of transmission equipment is expected
to increase from about Rs 300 million (US$36 million) in fiscal year 1980
to about Rs 500 million (US$60 million) by fiscal year 1983. Additional
upgrading activities include the expansion of the research and development
facilities throughout the company, the replacement of tooling and
production equipment in the Bangalore and Rae Bareli factories, and
extension of the use of consultancy services for product and reliability
engineering which was commenced under the Seventh Project.
45.       The second component of the ITI subproject, involving the
establishment of new production facilities at Palghat for electronic
switching equipment, represents the first indigenous move into large scale
production of electronic telephone switching systems and is of vital
importance to the telecommunications and electronics industries in India.
The Palghat facility will be designed to manufacture annually 150,000
equivalent lines of electronic switching equipment, comprising 30,000
lines of digital electronic trunk switching equipment, 50,000 lines of
integrated electronic low-capacity exchanges, and 40,000 lines of private
digital electronic automatic exchanges.



-17-
The HCL Subproject
46.       HCL produces a wide variety of telephone cables and line wire
with total sales of approximately Rs 550 million (US$65 million) in fiscal
year 1980. It has factories at Rupnarainpur in West Bengal and Hyderabad
in Andhra Pradesh, where it employs a total of about 4,000 people. Its
output is sold primarily to the P&T with a small part of its production
going to other customers such as the Indian Pailways.
47.       The HCL subproject accounts for about US$66 million of HCL's
three-year capital investment program of about US$102 million. As with
the ITI subproject, the HCL subproject comprises an upgrading and
modernization component for its two factories at Rupnarainpur and
Hyderabad, together with the establishment of a new cable manufacturing
plant at Hyderabad. The upgrading and modernization involves the
replacement of obsolete and worn-out production machinery and the addition
of new testing equipment for production line and research and development
purposes. At the Rupnarainpur facility, modern cable sheathing equipment
will replace the obsolete and worn-out equipment, and modern automated
testing equipment will be provided.
48.       The second component of the subproject covers the establishment
of a new cable manufacturing plant at Hyderabad. This factory is required
to meet-the growing demands for cable to satisfy P&T's development plans.
For this purpose, a new factory with a potential capacity of three million
pair kilometers per year will be established. By 1988, the P&T's cable
requirements will reach about seven million pair kilometers per year; the
proposed new factory, together with the two existing factories., should be
adequate until that time.
The HTL Subproject
49.       RTL produces teleprinters, electric typewriters, data
communication modems and miscellaneous items of telegraph and data
equipment, with total sales of Rs 75 million (US$9 million) in fiscal year
1980. Its main product line is the teleprinter, which, togetheer with
spares and accessories, accounts for more than 95% of its output. The
company has a factory at Madras in Tamil Nadu, where it employs about
2,000 people. HTL produces on average about 7,000 teleprinters per year,
of which 60% to 70% are sold to P&T, about 30% to other customers and
about 2% exported.
50.       The HTL subproject accounts for about US$17 million of HTL's
three-year capital investment program of about US$20 million. As with the
ITI and HCL subprojects, the HTL subproject consists of two components --
the upgrading and modernization of the existing factory in Madras, and the
establishment of a new electronic teleprinter manufacturing faLctory at
Hosur in Tamil Nadu. The upgrading and modernization involves the



-18-
replacement of machines and equipment in the machine shop, production
line, and tool room in a manner which will enable a changeover to the
manufacture of electronic teleprinters to be made. The proposed new
factory will manufacture the electronic components of the teleprinters and
carry out the final assembly, testing and packaging. Offers are being
invited from electronic teleprinter manufacturers for a collaborative
arrangement with HTL in establishing the indigenous teleprinter
manufacturing facility.
Project Implementation
a) The P&T Subproject
51.       The P&T subproject, which comprises many separate works spread
throughout the country, will be executed by the P&T with its own staff of
engineers, technicians, linemen and tradesmen. To facilitate project
implementation, some bids will be called prior to approval of the credit.
This applies particularly to the new computing equipment for Bombay,
Calcutta, New Delhi and Madras, the medium-capacity digital electronic
trunk switching system, and the local switching system for rural
subscribers' small exchanges. A key policy decision concerning the
establishment of electronic switching equipment factories has already been
made by GOI (see para 34).
52.       The network upgrading program, designed to improve the overall
performance of the telephone network in terms of frequency of faulty
conditions, duration of faults, and quality of transmission and switching
performance, will be implemented by the P&T. During project negotiations,
GOI and the Association reached an understanding on the performance
indicators and program monitoring indices to be used to measure.the
implementation of the program and the quality performance of the network.
53.     As part of its regular progress reporting procedures to the
Association, the P&T will review and report on the annual performance of
the three domestic equipment manufacturing companies participating in the
project. In particular, the P&T report will include data on product
prices and on factory output measured against established targets. The
information requirements and reporting methodology were agreed upon in
principle during project negotiations.
54.     The Economic Research Cell, established under the Seventh Project,
carries out economic analyses of demand, investment, and tariff
structures, and similar economic studies for the P&T. During
negotiations, GOI and the Association reached an understanding that as
part of its ongoing research program, the ERC would undertake appropriate
pricing and tariff studies under the project. These studies would be
designed to assess the effect of tariff policies on traffic distribution
in the Indian telecommunications sector. Terms of reference and a



-19-
schedule for these studies will be provided to the Association by P&T by
June 30, 1981. GOI and the Association also agreed that appropriate
action would be taken, as considered necessary by GOI, on the
recommendations arising from these studies. With regard to ERC staffing,
-&T plans to appoint an additional economist and a statistical officer to
e ERC during 1081, and has submitted a proposal to the Ministry of
Finance for these additional positions.
(b) Factory Upgrading and Modernization, and Establishment: of
New Factories
55.     In the case of ITI, factory modernization was part of its earlier
1979-83 five-year plan and certain of these works were incorporated into
the Seventh Telecommunications Project. The company is therefore aLready
in a position to implement further improvements along these lines.
Quality assurance aspects of ITI's products were also addressed under the
Seventh Project, and a quality assurance manual, explaining quality
control methodology, was developed by ITI. Quality assurance procedures
adopted under the Seventh Project would continue under the proposed
project, and a quality standards manual for ITI's operations, specifying
quality levels and methods of inspection, has been drafted by ITI. The
agreed ITI/P&T version of the manual will be submitted to the Association
by June 1981.
56.       For HCL, factory upgrading will proceed with bids called during
fiscal year 1981 and equipment delivered and installed in fiscal years
1Q82 and 1983. A quality assurance department is presently being
established within HCL as a result of recommendations made by Bank
missions last year. BCL's proposals for the department were discussed
during project negotiations, and we expect that it will be established and
adequately staffed by June, 1981.
57.       For HTL, as for ITI, the upgrading and modernization component
will continue along the lines established under the Seventh
Telecommunications Project. Bids will be called during fiscal year 1981
and equipment delivery and installation will take place in fiscal years
19P2-1Q83.
58.       The ITI electronic switching plant at Palghat, the HCL cable
factory at Hyderabad and the HTL teleprinter factory at Hosur are
scheduled to be completed in fiscal year 1983 and in production in fiscal
year 1984. The implementation schedules for these factories will
therefore need to be closely monitored. The implementation schedule for
the new ITI factory is particularly important in view of the urgent: need
for electronic trunk switching equipment in the P&T network, so a
stringent implementation plan for this establishment is essential. The
Government recently approved the establishment of the three factoriLes, and
bids for the system and collaborator for the proposed ITI factory iwere



-20-
called in November, 1980. Bids for the system and collaborator for the
proposed HTL factory are expected to be called in March 1981.
Project Costs and Financing
59.       The total project cost, including contingencies, of the four
subprojects is estimated at about US$1,619 million, including about US$240
million in taxes and duties. The proposed credit of US$314 million would
finance all of the foreign exchange costs, or about 23% of the project
costs net of taxes and duties. Retroactive financing of up to US$30
million (about 10% of the credit amount) is proposed to cover expenditures
incurred since June 30, 1980 for the purchase by the P&T of
telecommunications equipment and components from ITI, HCL and HTL. Such
retroactive financing is considered appropriate in this case in view of
the expected timing of the credit approval and agreement, which will be
close to the end of fiscal year 1980/81, the first year of the project.
Project appraisal took place considerably later than originally intended,
due to the Association's concern that the complex policy decisions that
had to be made by GOI concerning the introduction of electronic switching
technology into India be finalized prior to appraisal, and that equipment
specifications be well advanced by the date of Board presentation. By the
expected time of credit signing, most of the project's anticipated first-
year expenditures of about US$40 million will have been made; the proposed
retroactive financing amount of US$30 million will therefore cover about
75% of these expenditures (para 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
60.       The cost of the P&T subproject is estimated at US$1,493 million,
including about US$243 million in foreign exchange. The total cost of the
three factories subprojects is estimated at about US$126 million,
including US$71 million of foreign exchange. For the factories
subprojects, GOI will on-lend the credit proceeds contribution to the
individual factories under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between GOI and each of the three companies (ITI, HCL and HTL), and to be
approved by the Association. On-lending arrangements will be in line with
prevailing commercial terms (currently 11% per annum, less 1/4% prompt
payment discount, with repayment over fifteen years, including three
years' grace). Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements has been made
a condition of effectiveness for the credit (Section 6.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The balance of about US$1,250 million of
P&T's investment requirements will be met from internal cash generation,
GOI contributions, supplier credits and subscriber deposits. The
remaining US$55 million approximately of the investment requirements of
the factories will be similarly met from internal cash generation or GOI
equity contribution.
61.       The project also provides for price contingencies of about
US$225 million, based on projected price escalation of about 7% per annum



-21-
for local and 7% to 9% per annum for foreign cost components over the
project period. As is customary in the telecommunications industry, no
physical contingencies have been included, since engineering designs for
equipment and buildings are standardized and quantities are accurately
known. Within the P&T, average unit costs for the many small components
making up the subproject are well known, and a high degree of
standardization in engineering design for transmission works and for
technical buildings has been adopted. Upgrading requirements for the
factories subprojects are well defined and costs are well established.
Details of the cost estimates and financing plan are given in the Credit
and Project Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       All equipment imported directly by P&T for the P&T subproject
(US$80 million) will be procured on the basis of interna.onal competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines. All
equipment to be financed by the Association for the ITI, HCL and HTL
factories subprojects (US$71 million) will also be procured under ICB.
Procurement associated with the choice of collaborator and acquisition of
technical expertise for the new electronic switching manufacturing plant
at Palghat and the new electronic teleprinter factory at Hosur, will also
be made under ICB.
63.       As with previous lending operations, ICB is not proposed for
those equipment items in the P&T subproject for which considerations of
economy and efficiency give a clear advantage to domestic factories.
Items produced by the three domestic telecommunications equipment
manufacturers are comparable in quality with internationally procured
equipment and costs are competitive. For switching and transmission
equipment, there is further strong justification for domestic acquisition
on the basis of economy, compatibility, and standardization. In the case
of cables, different sizes and wire gauges are required in thcusands of
individual works throughout India and a well-coordinated local cable
supply is particularly important for the efficient implementation of
telecommunication systems of this size. IDA financing (US$163 million) in
this case is limited to the foreign exchange content (imported raw
materials and components required for production) of the domestically
procured goods. These materials and components will be procured by the
three factories under ICB arrangements in line with Bank Group guidelines.
64.      For direct imports by the P&T under the P&T subproject, and
procurement of imported items of machinery, equipment, and services for
the factories subprojects, disbursements will be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange expenditures. In the case of P&T purchases from the
local factories, disbursements will be made against invoices to the P&T of
a percentage of the purchase price calculated to represent the foreign
exchange costs of the imported raw materials and components included in



-22-
the goods and equipment purchased for the subproject. These percentages
are currently estimated as follows:
for purchases from ITI:  24% of the selling price
for purchases from HCL:  40% of the selling price
for purchases from HTL:   6% of the selling price
These percentages will be subject to review during the project period and
revised if necessary in the light of changed conditions.
Financial Aspects
(a) P&T
65.       As a department of the Central Government of India, P&T's
finances form part of the national budget. Funds provided by the
Government in excess of P&T's internal generation are called capital-at-
charge, and the Government requires that P&T pay dividends on these funds
at a rate currently set at 6%. P&T keeps separate accounts for its
telecommunications and postal operations. For the Telecommunications
Branch, P&T maintains commercial accrual accounts in addition to the
conventional Government cash accounts. Present arrangements of submitting
unaudited accounts within four months, and audited accounts within a
reasonable time after the close of the fiscal year will continue under the
proposed Credit (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
66.      The Telecommunications Branch transfers a substantial amount from
its profits to cover Postal Branch losses. The Government has maintained
telecommunications tariffs at a level which permits such transfer of funds
to the Postal Branch without damaging the Telecommunications Branch's
ability to meet its financial needs. Such transfers during the three-year
project period, fiscal year 1981 to 1983, are estimated to be about Rs
1,163 million.
67.       In compliance with the legal agreements under the Seventh
Telecommunications Project, the Telecommunications Branch completed in
March 1980 a revaluation study on the various categories of its fixed
assets. The rate of return on the revalued assets (22% in fiscal year
1979 and 18% in fiscal year 1980) was significantly higher than the rate
of return (11%) required under the legal agreements. Projections for
fiscal years 1981 through 1983 show the rate of return falling from about
16% to 14%. P&T will continue, on a memorandum basis, to revalue annually
its telecommunications assets and periodically review the adequacy of
depreciation rates; it will also continue to attain a rate of return of at
least 11% on these assets (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
68.       Other financial indicators for fiscal years 1977-80, based on



-23-
P&T's commercial accounts, showed an acceptable performance with current
ratios of at least 3.5 times, and debt-equity ratios remaining fairly
constant at around 18/82, reflecting the Telecommunications Branch's
strong equity base; operating ratios ranged between 54% and 57%. P&T's
collection performance has improved over the past few years and subscriber
accounts receivable amount to about two months' billings, which is
considered satisfactory by the Association.
69.       Financial projections, based on existing tariffs, indicate
continued satisfactory performance. Over the fiscal years 1981-85, the
debt-equity ratio is projected to be no more than 20/80, current ratios at
least 3.4, and debt service and transfers coverage ratio of at least 4.7.
Internal cash generation, net of debt service and transfers, wilL average
about 65% of total funds requirements through the proiect period.
(b) Domestic Manufacturers
70.        The three domestic telecommunications equipment manufacturers,
ITI, HTL, and HCL, are operating in what is essentially a vertically
integrated telecommunications industry. Historically, these companies
have performed reasonably well and have had no cash deficit probLems since
their inception. On the basis of the companies' investment programs and
projected sales to P&T, this situation is expected to continue in the
future.  Forecast financial results show that gross margin ratios are
expected to be above 13%, and return on net fixed assets is expected to
range from 12% to 22% over the project period.
71.       The financial and management performance of the three companies
is investigated annually by an independent Government body, the Bureau of
Public Enterprises (BPE); the results are included in BPE's Annual Survey
and reported to Parliament. The survey is thorough and critical. During
negotiations, GOI and the Association reached an understanding on the
reporting procedures for the companies under this project. Beginning in
fiscal year 1981, all three companies will submit to the Association the
BPE's analyses and recommendatiois together with the companies' comments
and planned corrective actions, if necessary. Also beginning in fiscal
year 1981, the three companies will submit to the Bank through the P&T
copies of any new pricing agreements concluded with P&T.
Economic Justification and Risks
72.       In India there is a large and growing unsatisfied demand for
telecommunications services which is unlikely to be met before 1990.
Hence, GOI is paying increasing attention to how the limited resources
allocated to the telecommunications sector are used. On the manufacturing
side, the emphasis is on assuring that appropriate technical decisions are
taken in a timely manner. On the telecommunications services side, a high
priority is being given to investment in rural and smaller district



-24-
centers, and in those sections of the large metropolitan areas in which
there is a large OYT 1/ demand. With regard to quality of service, GOI's
continuing attention to its improvement is reflected by the inclusion of
the network upgrading program in the P&T subproject.
73.       The distribution of benefits from the proposed project should
touch all segments of the population in India. Goverment administration
and private business should incur communications-related efficiency
increases, or lower costs, since telecommunications is the least-cost
means of communication for a wide variety of economic and social welfare
activities. As a result of the emphasis on investment outside the larger
metropolitan areas, a major improvement in quality of service will be made
in smaller cities and district centers, while in smaller towns and
villages, potentially 40 million people will receive local public access
to telephone facilities for the first time during the fiscal 1981-83
period. The 11,000 additional rural PCOs, the 1,500 additional small
rural exchanges, and the 405,000 new DELs allocated to districts centers
and to those cities other than Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi or Madras during
the project period will facilitate achievement of the Government's goals
of stimulating economic development outside the major metropolitan areas,
encouraging decentralization, and reducing transport and communications-
related costs in a wide spectrum of economic and social activities.
74.       The Telecommunications Branch of P&T has a much wider impact on
the communications and other sectors in India than is apparent from
telephone statistics. Overall, during the fiscal 1981-83 period, the
Telecommunications Branch will contribute to the Government's consolidated
fund a net amount of about Rs 3,296 million, which includes transfers to
the Postal Branch to cover postal losses (see para 66).
75.       Given the scarcity of resources allocated to the
telecommunications sector in India, pricing policy is another means by
which the benefits of the sector can be focused on high priority users.
However, despite the healthy financial position of the P&T, there is need
for a continuing review of the tariff structure. To this end, the ERC
will undertake appropriate pricing and tariff studies under the project
(see para 54).
76.       Given the externalities associated with telecommunications
service, the discount rate which equalizes the expected streams of
revenues with the capital and operating costs of P&T's fiscal 1981-85
investment program is at best a very conservative estimate of the total
1/ 'Own Your Telephone' - a system whereby advance payment of a re-
latively large deposit gives an applicant priority status for ob-
taining telephone service.



-25-
program benefits. With labor costs shadow-priced at 80% of the market
wage rate and foreign exchange at a conversion factor of 0.8, the economic
rate of return is estimated to be a minimum of 17%.
77.       The program is technically feasible and least cost, and involves
no special risks. No adverse environmental or health effects are expected
from the project. The subprojects are well defined and the implementing
agencies are adequately staffed and experienced to carry out the project
without undue difficulties.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association; the draft Project Agreement between the Association, Indian
Telephone Industries Ltd., Hindustan Cables Ltd., and Hindustan
Teleprinters Ltd.; and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI and
each of ITI, HCL, and HTL, has been made an additional condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 25, 1981






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A'V7RAGES
LAND AEA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                   MOST RECENT ESTIMATIE-
TOTAL          3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                             MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIHATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (1US$)               60.0       100.0    190.0             212.4                1114. 7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    106.0/c    141.0k   176.0/c           166.0                 342.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9      547.6    643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9      19.7     21.7              20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                  974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     132.0      167.0    196.0             193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0     308.0    353.0             409.6                2:150. 4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       40.0        42.5      41.4             42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                       56.5        54.6     55.6              55.0                  56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3. 5        2. 9     3.0               3.0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            1.9         2.5       2.0              2.2                   2.4
UTRBAN                           2. 5/d      3.3       3.3              3. 9                  4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0       40.0     35.0              37.4                  28. 7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0       17.0      14.0             14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         2.9      2.4               2.6                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..       12.0      16.9             15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        98.0       102.0    103.0             101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 93.0        92. 0     91.0             92.4                 !i08.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        52.0        51.0     50.0              49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     17.0        15.0      13.0             12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0       22.0     18.0              17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0       48.0     51.0              50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..       134.0       ..                ..                  52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF.
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0     33.0              30.2                  42.4
URBAN                             ..        60.0     83.0              66.0                  62.1
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0             20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0     20.0              17.7                  52.8
URBAN                             ..        85.0     87.0              71.3                  71.1
RURAL                             ..         1.0      2.0               ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        5800.0/e   4890.0   3617.0             6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   9630. O/e   5220.0   5675.0            9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         2149. 0/f   1629.0   1289.0            1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                             ..          ..
RIURAL                            ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..                ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.2         ..       5.2
URBAN                            5.2          ..      4.8
RURAL                            5.2         ..       5.3
AVERAGE NIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.6         2.8
URBAN                             ..          ..
RtlRAL                            ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INC(ME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb  ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0        72. 0     80.0               80.9                  98.6
MALE                 80.0         87.0      95.0               94.3                  99.2
FEMALE               40.0        55.0       64.0              66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0        29.0      28.0               26.6                  55.5
MALE                 30.0         39.0      38.0              34.8                   60.7
FEMALE               10.0         17.0      18.0              18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  8.0           6.04       ..                9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0        40.0      42.0               41. 1                 34.6
SECONDARY                          16.0        17.0        ..               20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0        33. 0     36.0               40.9                   85. 8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         1.0       1.3                1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0        21.0      24.0               25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.1       D. 5               2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUIATION                  11.0        16.0      16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3       3. 8                ..                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3         32.6      32.0               29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0        74.0      74.0               70.5                   51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0         11.0      11.0               11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0        40.2      39.2               37.9                  39.1
MALE                                 57. 1       52.3      51.3               51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                               27.9        27.1      26.2               23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1. 1              1.2                    1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3 .1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6         17.2        ...
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      88.0              107.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      76.0               86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ,.      40.7               46.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      47.9               51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, 1d 1951-60;  Le 1962;  /f 1958;  /R 1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Althoagh the          e t  a drn fro  sources goner.ally judged the moot  utho-itative and reliable, it  hould also be noted thbt they say rIot be inter-
nationally  oepavuble because of the laob of atandordi-ed deftiitinon  and concepts used by differet tcoetelen in colleotfng the data.  The dote are, enne-
theles,  oneful tO describe ordors of magnitude, indicato trends, and characterize certain sorjo  differencea betweencounrtres
The reference gronpa are (I) the same country group of the sobiect country and (2) accoutry gcoup etch sosoohat higher average income than the co=*try group
of the sob)iect country (excopt for 'Capital Surplu- 01 Exporter:" group where  Middle Isco-o North Africo and MEddle tact" is chosen because of stroeger
soe.o-rul. ural offiuitie).  In  hn toftereece group data the  averages are populanion weighted ar-ith -et  mesans for each indicator and shown only abet at
least half of the c.ouneres in a group has data far thot indicator   Sincet the             f c.unori- oote biodietors depends co the avoai]ability of
data and is not  -nifarm, caution est beeexrcied in relating averages of coo inditatcr to another   Thb eaverges ore only useful is nusparieg the value
of one indicator at a rime  _mong she -ountry and reference groups.
LAND AREA (thousand sq.m.k(                                                              Puralati.n tee Physictan- Fopulation dividea bysntsert 5 preosictag phy-
Total - roctal surface area comprising laed arrea std tnland eaters,                    siciane qualIfied from a medical school as university levl.
Agricultural -   fteit:ae of agricultural area used temporarily or permanently        Population Per Nursing Person - Populatiol  dinided by number of practoicig
for crops, pastures, nrbet and kitches gardens or to lie fallow; 19(7 data,           sale and female gradute nurses, practical nurses, and asaisat euraa.
Population per goseital Bed - total, urban. aad enrol - Pepslaties (tonal,
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNp per capita _etteo        at current macbet priors, cal-        orban  and rural) dtvided by their respective sasber of hospital beds
9ulatad by ndat  -coversion method as Wovld Dent Atlas (1977-79 basis); 1960,           availble in public and  private general and aperiaised hospital and e-
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                    h bilitatie ce9tes.   hospitals are estabDishme fts perranently staffod
Elf OiNCENEMFIID  it AFIA -Annal cssuprlo o  comerool  nery (oal   by at least one physiotan.  Establishments providing peiocipally  tsatodial
ENERdY CONSUgPTION PER CAoITA - A s... endh  cptio.n of Scc erand geoermal e(c-a          care are not included.  toral bspitale, however, include health tff mdiral
centers not  permanently staffed bp a physicies (hot by a p edicol  saisaetd,
teSiciy) in hilogoans of coal equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979               nurse, odotifo, etc.) which offer in-patient acrommodastos and provide a
d lta.                                                                                  El_t_ed range of medical facilities.  Poe sttistirAl panpoaes urbe beapi-
911 Id hyd,.-  -I__   g_tal,isoude  110 pdsia d                          erladseiaie    optas's   sa
POPULATEED AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          bep itc7ud local orinrural hositarls ad mledical  nd matrrnitp casters
Tottl Population. Mid-Near (aillious) - As of July li 1960, 1970. and 1970            Admissioco per hspitnal ded - Total somber of admissions to or diacharges
data.                                                                                 from hospirals divided by the ether of bads.
Urban Population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popoultion;
different definitions of orbaun arosemay affect comparability of datu            NOUSING
am ong countries; 1960, 19707 and 1979 dot.                                         Average tie of Eusehold (persons per hoehold) - toal, urhba, sand eal-
?orulatioe Pro(ectioos                                                                  A household consists of a group of individuals who shoes living quarters
Povulation to Your 21000 - Current population Projections see based on 1990           sod their solo me1sls   A hoarder or lodger may or mFay rot ha included Es
total population by age and son end their sorsality and fertility rates.            the household for statisttcal purposes.
Projootios pacomatocs foe mortality rates comprise of three levels auss=-         Averages amnber of poersos oar room - total, urban  and rural - Average sum
lug life eucectaucy at birth inreaosing sith country's per toapita income           her of persoc: per root Ia all urbsn, snd runel nccupied tonventionel
level, and femle life eupecttoty stabilizing at 77.5 years.  Tbo pare-              dwellings, respectively.  foellings ruclude non-per=maeat structures  rand
meters for fertility rate also have three levels assuming docline tn                ucoccupied parts
fertility acoreding to ieccme level and peast family plannieg peefoe neca.        Ateesa to Electricity forercast of dvellisga) - toteS, urban,g asd rorel -
Each country tz thee assigued one of those site combisotions of mertalisy           Convontionol dwellings sith electricity to living quarsafa aa porceatasge
and fertility treeds for projection purposes.                                       of itetl, urhan, and rural dwyellings respectively.
Stationary poculation - Eu a stationary population thero is no growth since
she birth rate is oquel to obe death rea, and can- she age structure re-    EDUCATION
mlains conatant.  Thia is achieved only after fertility 7 ates decline to         Adlusted torolioent laneos
the coplactesst level of unti net reproduction rate, sirs eonh generatioe           Primary  school - total, male and female -  irosa tonal, male med famle
of woseo replaces itself exaitly.  The stationary populanion star was                 trsollmout of all ages at the primacy level as perreo:togea of respective
earimated on the haste of the projectod oharacteristics of the population             primlary school-age populationss  eorcally includes ohilidreas agad b-Il
is the year 20500, and the rate of declcne of fertility crate to re place-            years but odisarod for differens lengths of petrzary eIducatira; for
tnent lel                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~coantoimnsvith aniversal ednoation enrallment may exceaed 100 percent
Tear stationaro population Is maacbed - The year when stationary populotion             sInce some pupils are below or above rho off icial school age.
sies has her  reached.                                         Seondar noo -. tota,nal en deml  -ICmue  msoe   eodr
PorulotioA oloysiy reached                                    1dec97a. iocrqp tr 7  r-i-i s.t moe yess of approved pImtary inetraceion;
Pro.b.- did-year popuiation yer sqearo bilonoter (lOt hectares) ofyrovides gecocal, vocational, or teacher training instructtons foe peptk
d' ares     `  f"usually  of  12 to 17 years of abge; correspondnce courses are geserally
Pet sq. hkc agricultural laid - Competed as above for agricultural land                 exoluded.
veily     tiIOofcatto-nit erime   rreto   eode)-Octo:llsiuis
Popu7ation Ags Diruetore (rercent) - Children (0-li years), worlolof-age (IS-              istludea technicl,Industerial, or oethnery p-gs Vcairba opeat tit dept a-
64 pears), and ratitred (65 years and over) as porceseegee of mid-year popu-            doetly or an departmarts of asecondary inatitutionss
latio t; 196D,  1970, and 1970 dare.                                                   uc-l-teachor eaioy  - ofdars e and seonedery - Totl sudests enrslled ie
Population Erowth tate (rercest) - total - Ameual groeth rates of total mid-              penmary tand secondary levels divided by sombees of teacohers is the
year popi latirsa for 1957-60, 1960-78, aod  1970-78                                    aorrespouding levels
Popolatios irovth hate (percent) - urban - Annoal grosth raeea of urban popu-           idolS literaoy rate (pot-ent) -  itereeadulse (able so road and wtite)
tiona for 1950-6P   1960-70  and 1970-78                                               ah    pr  .tag.  of total adult pop lation aged OS yess and over.
Crude Birth sate (oar thoneaud) - Annual love births poe thousand of mid-yae 
population; 1960, 1970, and 1979 daa.                                             CONSU'PTION
Crude Death Rato (Per  thousand)  - Annual deaths per thousand of rid-year            Passessee Cara (car thooeed populatiot) - Passenger cars  oompriss mosar
populatios; 1960, 1970, aed 1979 dnata                                                ours seatring less than sight psesons; atxlades ambelasree * hsarsesoand
Eross Reorodantton R te-Average  unubee of daughters senor I will tear io               eElitory vehicle
her normal reyroductive ported if she experiences peresent age-spec if ic fee-      Radio Receivers (pee thausaid populatior) - All typos of rsoeivers fof rado
olity rates; usually fivo-year averages  ndiog  to 1960, 1970  and 1977.              broadcasts to general poblic pee thousand of populatine  excludes asi-
Family Plaanning-Acceptors, Annual (thoosands) - Asnnual unhber of acceptors            ceouse  receivers in countrels and is years shoen rogirs atist of radia asmt
of hirth-control devices under auspices of rational family plaening program.          san in effect; data for recent years ma not hr cospatshlo ainoe most
family Plamelna- Users (percent of married enseol - Percentage of married               countries ahP-ched licersing.
00mmn of ohild-hearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to           TO tceivors (per thousand copulation) - TV receioora fos broadcast to
all married women is samne age grnoy.                                                 general public per thoosand population; eaeludos usliom!nsed TV receivers
Iedtn of toed Froduction car farina (1969-71-100) - ledeo of per capita anoual         tEar of "daily georea interehstn swpopeivn d        hf o as a psertda  gab-t
produontcon of all ford cossoditien.  Prod.sotionexacludes seed and fend sod          lEcation devoted primarily to recording grerarl sees.  It is considneed
is on calendar year basis.  Cosmcoditirs cover primaxry goods (e.g. sgoaroase         to be 'daily' if it appears at least fear rises awveeb.
insttmad of euger) slich are edible end contain nuscients (0.0. coffee sod         Ciena= Annual Atrendasce oer Cacita oreOrYar-DEased non the susber of
tea are excluded).  Ag gestate prodoction of ouch country is based 00                 tichots sold during the year, including admissIons to seine-is tisema-
national average producer price  eights  1961-65  1970, and 197  data                   d  obil   it
oer cuotta suarlv of calories (cercent of reciretohnta) - Computed from               an  =    e un t.
eneorgyequivalest of net food supplies acailable in coontry per toapita         hABORn FORCE
pee day.  Avstlahle supplies oamprin  domestic production, isprts lean             Total Labor Force (thousands) -  tono=itally  active perstes    d incltding
exports, end changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal  read, seeds,           armed forces and unemployed boo exoluding housewives, students, eto.
qoanotetats used in food processing, and lotses is distribution.  Reqoire-          Definitions in varioun countries are rot cosporoahle; 19E60  1971 sand
sects were estimated by Pit based on physiologinal needs for narul act-             1975 d
viry and hlealth considsring eeviroomental tesperarure, body weights, age         Fematle (ceeceot) - Fem Iaher fac  en preag  of  ctaJtl labor forte.
and sen distribution  of populatio, and alloring 10 percent foe wuote at           -er tur (cceni) - l aor forcs                                ht    adt aI
household level; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 dotea                                      fishing an percentag  of total labor force; i960, 1970 and 1978 data
For capita sucely of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of pee ca pine       Indausec (percent) - Lahor force is mining, construction, masufattutiug
set supply of food per day.  Not sapply of food is defined at above,  to-           and electricity, netor and gas as percentage of total labor force; 196D,
quiroarots for all countries established by USDA provide for minimum                1970 and 1978 dae
allowance of 60 grams of ttotl protein yer day aol 20 gesms of suinatl end        Participation Rato (percent) - total, male, end female - Paritiipation or
pulse ororeo, of which 10 grams should he anital protein.  Theeestand-              activity rates are .omputed as total, sale, and female lebor forts as
and- are loser than those of 75 gras of total preteSt and 2) grana of               percentaget of total, malle and fele populotion of slI sages respectively;
aeal pro tein aa as evernge fee the world, proposed by FAt in the Third             1960, 1970, ead 1975 data, Tbds are OLD's participatIon rtes  eflatlg
Uorld  Pond Darmey; 1961-65  1970 und 1977  dana.                                   age-se        of tir
Pee carita prental surely from ae-tmal end pulse  -      Protein supply of food de-   ae-se   tc            W   t outn      ,n  lge 
A                                                            Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b-aePaefo  ntoa   1nurte..
rived trama asials and pulses to grams per day; 1961-65, 1970 und 1977 data.   Economic Derendency Rttnio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 *nd svees
Child (agee 1-4,) Mortality Rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thossapd in         to the total labor forcee
age group 1-, years, to cbildren in this age group; for mast developing coos-
trier data derived from lots tables; 1960, 1970 end 1977 data.                    INCObE DISTRIDUTION
EEALT2                                                                                  Peecantage of Private tucose (both is cash asd tied) - Itteived by riobest
LifeaEst ctascya    s  (     )         - A g  Y. o7  yatoff            Snig              pel, richest 2  percent, pooest 2D percent  end poorest IS pertent
Infant iMortality Rate (Per thansend) - Annual deaths of infants under ode oer   POttTf TAEIST OUPS
of age per theusd ive births                                                        tsttmated Ahsolute Poverty Income level (01$ cer 00pita) - urban and rural-
Access to S -f Migu   ..r (percent of  Ropulation) - total. urban, ad rural - No         Absolote poverty lienie level is that income level  beltw which a misimal
Namtber of people (renal, urban, sand rural) wtith reaosoable access to safea         nutritionallyeadequate diet plus essential use-food reet;uiresasten is eno
water supply ( includes treated surfaen  wators or untreated hut anronsamcinatad      affordabe
water such as that foomt protecned bsmebelaa, springs, aad seantatry wells) as      Estimated tolarive Povarto ICeome Level (11$ per oaeita) - urhtam tad rsral -
perceotagoa of their respective popaunaionse   Esnoa rham  aresaapublic               tural relative poverty inceee level is one-third of ave rage pee ea pita
fountain or satndpnen loeamed sot mere rhas 2OS meters fromu a housee may he          prsalicmofteoury OusevlIdrve:fnsheel
conaidered as being with is reasonableo acoesa of thatt house.  In rural areas        leveonl incot  t adjuthes  founryg cs ofba   living is aeheaeero   he  ura
reasonable accets svold imtply that the bousonife or seahern of the leasehold       Etuimatsd Pocalarirn Doeso Ahsolute Poverty Osreme Level (rercttst) - urbon
do nt have to speed a disproportionate part of the day in fetoting  the                and rural - Percent of populotion (urban aed rorol) vat are "tihYluta pas".
metess to lEotresa Disaosal (rarneaqt of  kooulatioa.- tota 1  ham -- and
rural - Nusher of poople (esatal, urbun, and rural) earmad hyssoreta
diaposal as percentages of their reepeotive popolationsa  georeta dia-                                              Econodio and Social Dlata Dt!aisio
poass nay include the collection  and disposal, with or wtthnut treatment                                      fcoogemic Anal ysis and Projectiosxt  Departssnt
of homo  sooreto a ad wasearmater bY water-horse systems or the use of                                                             Ortober 1990
pin privies and eimllae tuseallttio ss



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ICONCIEC DRVWIWPMINT DAlh
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: ISS 0IS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197S/79                                                             ANNUAL RATE OF SROWTH 1%. constant Prices)
US$ Bln.        7,                1955156-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974175   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                 117.08       100.0                      3.7                3.6               3.7                2.8                5.6
Gross DoIenetio Investment            28.28        24.2
Gross National Saving                 28.11        24.0
Current Account Balance  d/            0.50         0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Val.e Added (at factor cost)           Labor Porte             V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.            %               Nil.         %            ASS L         of National Average
Agriculture                         24.5              46.6             130.0      72.1            188               64
Industry                            11.8              22.3              20.2      11.2            582              199
Services                            16.3              31.1              30.2      16.7            542              186
Tot-l/average                       52.6             100.0             180.4     100.0            292              100
GOVERNKENT FINANCE                                              S/
General Goverment                                             Central Goveroment
Ra  Bln                f                                                        Z s.o.f GDP
RI 871n     197/    1974/75-1978/7i9                                         71  ofGD
Current R.ecipts                   183.65        19.1         18.3                                107.71      11.2          10.6
Current enpenditures               177.26        18.4         16.7                                108.99      11.3          10.1
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.41        0.7           1.6                               - 1.28       -0.1          0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/            78.41        8.1           7.2                                 57.34       6.0           5.1
Enternal Assistance (net) d/         8.15        0.8           1.4                                 8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71      1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78     1978/79   September 1978   SesteMber 1979
(Rs Billion outtanding at end of pertod)
Money and Quasi Money              121.4        198.4       220.3        254.7       308.9        370.4       445.6         398.5          473.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)    52.6         87.3         95.3       101.1        110.2       134.7        153.9        139.5           161.7
B.nk Credit to Co-mierial Sector   64.6         107.0       126.7       153.9        185.1       212.2        253.3        225.8           273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                            January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Money as 2
of GDP                           30.1        33.5         31.5        34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0       139.7        174.9       173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         20.2        25.2        - 1.1         2.1          5.2          -           0.4            20.9
Rank Credit to Government (net)    10.8          12.3         9.2         6.1          9.0         20.2        14.3          16.9           15.9
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4         22.6         18.4        21.5         20.3        14.6         19.4         15.6            21.3
_/  The per capita GNP ostimate is at market pricen, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conver-ions to dollarn in this table are et the overage exchange rate prevailing daring the period covered.
bl Quick Estimates.
El  Computed from trend line of GNP at f-cto- coat serina, including one obherv-tion before first year and one obsery-tion
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bonk estim tee; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All Inane and advances to third parti.a havs bean -ntted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYNINS                      1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80             M HERCIMNISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978179)
US$ KIn.        X
Exports of Goods                         5,753       6,315       6,976       7,800           Engineering Goods               671         11
Imports of Goods                        -5,928      -7,188      -8,488    -11,000            Tea                             420          7
Trade Balance                           -  175      -  873      -1,512      -3,200           Gems                            499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882       1,050           Clothing                        378          6
Leather and Leather
,ource Balance                           204      - 181       - 630      -2,150                    Product.               319           5
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  _/               -182       -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                        270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -          -              Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers   j/                         695       1,077       1,000       1,000           Sugar                           224          4
-                                                                           Others                        2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807         500        -750            otal                         2,649         45
Total                        5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,955       1,628       1,695      1,870            EXTIERNIL DEBT. MAIRCH 31. 1979
Amortization                           -560        -645        -702    -   687                                                 US$ billion
Transactions with 1MF                     -337        -330        -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199    -  -183            Undisbursed                                  5.2
Outstanding, including                     20.7
Increase in Reserves ()                 -1.575      -2,076      -1,534    -   250                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747       5,823       7,357       7,607                                             h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276       5,668       7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   IBRD/IWA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                                 USS million
of which: Petroleum                   1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                              IBRD            LID
Exports                                     37          32          24         -             Outstanding and Disbursed         689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                      21          18         n.e.                      Undisbursed                      614              2,621
Outstanding, including         1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 - Bs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Bs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                 US$1.00 - Re 8.188
Rs 1.00 - U8$0.122
End-December 1979                           US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
h/  Estimated.
T/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to DIF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization end interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                          1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                    --         12.0      4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                  --          8.0       1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I        --         55.0      1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing              --         13.0       6.43
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0          --       14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy              --         30.0     19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD          --         83.0     31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy              --         27.7     14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --         16.4      6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas          --         35.0      2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer            109.0       --        1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI              94.8       --        1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0       4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development              --         34.0       9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD             --         24.0       2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0     17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry          --        105.0     35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV        --        150.0     60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0     1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0            90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                    40.0            16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I           25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --        21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --         8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --      150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --       12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0    --      11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --       23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --       70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --       13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation          --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    ---    15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --      107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                  25.0   --           21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power          105.0   --           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation       --    117.6         88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power        --    200.0        161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture            --      14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation         --      85.0        73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II          --      16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   --             56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy             --    150.0        135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation         --    111.0         59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              --      38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                       --      30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   50.0   --           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                   --    200.0        176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation          --    129.0        112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                          48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                       175.0       151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ miLlllon
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                  --      250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries          --       20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --      210.0     192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --       37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II             --       46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --         32.0       32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells            --       18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --        175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --        300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                 --       22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980      Indla   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --       10.0       10.00
1033-IN    1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --       56.0       56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --         54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --       80.0       79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XIII        100.0    --          94.87
1887-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    --          25.00
1053-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --      225.0      225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --          30.00
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads         --       35.0       35.0
1078-IN*   1980      India   Mahanadi Barrages         --       83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0    --         400.0
1082-IN*   1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --         42.0       42.0
Total                                            2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                       1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                            1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                     560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -         1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                          25.9        1.7      27.6
Repaid                        20.8        -       20.8
Cancelled                      6.2       1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2       8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                   44.5        1.1     45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corpora:ion of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977: Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, L980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10. 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that. they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978: Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department: remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments.  IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378 Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project:; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978: Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5. 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975),
redesign of major project components and the addition of a supplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily.
The water treatment works were successfully completed on schedule at the
end of 1979. Completion of construction of the project sewerage works is
scheduled for mid-1980. Financial performance of the project entity is
satisfactory. Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants.  While improvements have been made i n the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continiue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978: Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition prob-
lems and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and
service areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of
the final sections of these areas. Increased attention should be turned
to the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that
anticipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading
components and thus replicability is actually achieved. Technical assis-
tance is being sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Prolect; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977: Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977: Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research ProJect; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Blihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind ithe original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project: US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Guiarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Proiect; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31. 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: Tune 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availabiLity of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31. 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 M.W extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
EIGHTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Program and project planning is a continuous process in
telecommunications in India.
(b) The agency which prepared the prolect
Telecommunications Branch, Posts and Telegraphs Department
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the first
mission to consider the proJect
May 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 30, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 9, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GOI would establish suitable subsidiary loan agreements
with each of the three factories (ITI, HCL, HTL), as a
condition of effectiveness (paragraph 60).



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(b) P&T would maintain its telecommunications tariffs at a
level adequate to achieve an annual rate of return of at
least 11 percent on the average net value of its fixed
assets in operation (paragraph 67).
(c) P&T would continue to revalue, on a memorandum basis,
its telecommunications assets in a manner acceptable to
the Association, and periodically review the adequacy of
depreciation rates for the purpose of calculating rate
of return (paragraph 67).






,LX~~~~~~~~  ~~~~ ~INDIA
DEMOCRATIC           %N
REPUBLIC                                                                                      TELECOMMUNICATIONS
OF
AFGHANISTAN    ~~~          U,A~~AAA~A                                    Coaxial and  Microwave  Systems
EXISTING    UNDER'I  PLANNED
3  \OAAMop~~~~~~~~~~~~or ~     ~        ~        ~                 CO~~~NSTRUCT[C
PA  K-I--T-A N
I
PAKISTAN  /  LXMRXMqMIMLO~Y' B UTAN
OAMO..O  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MA~~~~~~~~AAMM~~~.. T
NOVA CCLXI   COOLA                                                                                       C'~J.-  A-
00"~~~~~  00508CC          MACDIX                                                                                C ZAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..A-
ALCOMO  sooojo~~2\    >~ PA  r<-fl/7~    ) v
AAAO\  \MALAABURM
-I ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    A
I-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
LOCCOOMACA C               SRI LANKA



