CREDIT NUMBER 1112 IN
, DOCUMNTS
Project Agreement
(Eighth Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDIAN TELEPHONE INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
and
HINDUSTAN CABLES, LIMITED
and
HINDUSTAN TELEPRINTERS, LIMITED
Dated      A   4           , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1112 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    fa     " 214, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), of
the one part, and INDIAN TELEPHONE INDUSTRIES, LIMITED (herein-
after called ITI), HINDUSTAN CABLES, LIMITED (hereinafter called
HCL), and HINDUSTAN TELEPRINTERS, LIMITED (hereinafter called
HTL), of the other part.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred fifty-two million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 252,400,000), on
the terms and coiditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ITI, HCL and HTL agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of ITI, HCL and HTL, the proceeds
of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to ITI, HCL and HTL on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ITI, HCL and HTL, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ITI shall carry out Part B of the Project,
HCL shall carry out Part C of the Project and HTL shall carry


﻿-2-
out Part D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ITI, HCL and HTL each undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by it to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ITI, HCL
and HTL shall each cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for its Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ITI, HCL and HTL shall each furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for its Part of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) ITI, HCL and HTL shall each: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of its
Part of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the portion of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in said Part of the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in said
Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of said portion of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning said Part of the Project, its cost and, where


﻿-3-
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of said portion of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as the Association may agree, ITI, HCL and HTL shall
each prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of its Part of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Association and ITI, HCL and HTL, as
the case may be, of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) ITI, HCL and HTL shall each enable the Association's
representatives to examine all its plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.05. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each duly perform all
its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, ITI, HCL and HTL shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each: (a) at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
its Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the portion of the Credit relent to it by the Bor-
rower; and (b) promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
its Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
said portion of the Credit, or the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ITI, HCL and HTL
Section 3.01. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future


﻿expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
sound business, financial, administrative and engineering
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) ITI, HCL and HTL shall each at all times
maintain its corporate existence and the right to carry on its
operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and
maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties, and
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) ITI, HCL and HTL shall at all times operate and maintain
its projects, machinery, equipment and other property, and make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ITI,
HCL and HTL shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets required for the efficient
operation of the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. ITI, HCL and HTL shall each: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each


﻿- 5 -
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited-and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ITI, HCL and HTL thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, -the Association shall promptly notify
ITI, HCL and HTL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-6-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ITI:
Indian Telephone Industries, Limited
Dooravani Nagar
Bangalore - 560016
Karnataka, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
PHONINDUSTRY                        043 - 222
Bangalore
For HCL:
Hindustan Cables, Limited
P.O. Hindustan Cables
Dist. Burdwan 713335
West Bengal, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
HICABLES                            065 - 240
Rupnarainpur
For HTL:
Hindustan Teleprinters, Limited
G.S.T. Road
Guindy, Madras 600032
India
Cable address:                       Telex:
TELEHIND                            041 - 477
Madras


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ITI, HCL or HTL may be taken or
executed by its respective Managing Director or such other person
or persons as it shall designate in writing, and ITI, HCL and HTL
shall each furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/X&              Al i
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDIAN TELEPHONE INDUSTRIES, LIMITED
Authorized Representative
HINDUSTAN CABLES, LIMITED
Authorized Representative
HINDUSTAN TELEPRINTERS, LIMITED
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  02        day of
198F                         R.
FOR SECRETARY


