Doaua3at of
The World Bank
FOX1 OMFCIAL USE ONLY
ReputNo. 6143-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
_IC AGRICULTURAL CREDIT W PROJECT
August 15, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
TIbi dseummt ha a rtom-ui dkmIbkwm5mad MaY be Oud by meclpmat only In the Pufwameew of
their on"1 datiwl    -on -n ma ad ehwh..  b disel   wihot WON BOA   a. th e.



CURRENCY EQUIVALE.NTS
(July 1986)
US$1 = 110.0 Sucres (SI )
S/ 1 - US$0.009
SI 1 million - US$9,091
In August 1986, the Government began to float the exchange rate.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)          -       10,000 m2 - 2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)        -       1,000 m- .62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)         -       2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)       -       1,000 kg - 2,200 pounds
1 quintal (q)           -       100 pounds - 45.4 kg
1 liter (1)             -       0.26 gallons
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BCE      -  B.nco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
BEDE     -  Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador
(Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BNF      -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CFN      -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
DPAs     -  Direcciones Provinciales Agropecuarias
(Provincial Directorate)
ENAC        Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento y Comercializacion
(National Enterprise for Storage and Marketing)
ENPROVIT -  Empresa Nacional de Productos Vitales
(National Enterprise for Essential Products)
IERAC    -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y
Colonizacion
(National Institute of Agrarian Reform and
Colonization)
INEC     -  Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos
(National Institute of Statistics)
INIAP    -  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAG      -  Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(M!nistry of Agricultu--e and Livestock)
PB       -  Private Banks or Financial Companies
SEDRI    -  Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural Intcgral
(Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development)
GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......      ................................  1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...*         ..................................  3
Agriculture in the Economy *         ...................................  3
Agricultural Policy ........... .....    ......... ............... ...  3
Public Institutions in the Sector       .............................  4
The Financial System in Ecuador ...........................           4
The National Develop'uent Bank (BNF)          ...........................  5
Past Experience with Bank Landing           .............................  5
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................        6
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .....        ................  6
Project Objectives and Description .......,...........*******..        7
Project Exec,ition ....................       ... .*...................  8
Lending Terms and Conditions         ........  ...............  .....  8
Utilization of Loans to BNF .............                             9
BNF's Future Financial Performance                                    10
Project Costs and Financing ............................ .......      10
Procurement ...                                             *         10
Disbursements ..                                         .            11
Accounting and Audits ...                                             11
Reporting                             ...                             12
Financial and Economic Justification .       .    .                   12
Project Risks ..                                ......               12
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................          13
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador from October 15 - November 1, 1985. The mission comprised Messrs.
J. E. Fernandez, C. A. Plaza, and A. Guzman (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without Wotld Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Pagie No.
ANNEXES
1. The National Development Bank (BNF) and Agricultural Credit ....        14
Tab';e  1 -   iNF Financial Performance Indicators e...,9e-ee      19
Table  2  -   BNF Income and Expenses e                            20
Table  3   -  BNF Fow of Funds   *...0..   0-e...e-.o.....,,       21
Table  4  -   BNF Balance Sheet *                                  22
Table  5   -  BNF Income and Expense Forecast e...e.,..e.e.e       23
Table  6  -   BNF Flow of Funds Forecast *...e.-..-.o..,..         24
Table  7   -  BNF Balance Sheet Forecast ...ee-.e..e.-..-          25
Table  8  -   BNF Financing Plan (SI Billions) ..............      26
Table  9  -   BNF Financing Plan (%) *.oo...eee...e.oe...ee-       26
Chart  1 -    BNF Organization Chart e.,.....,o,...e...e..e        27
2*  Resource Mobilization .............................                    28
Table   I -   Saving Mobilization Cost Table ....... ..0.....      31
3.  Institutional Strengthening .....* ..*.*...                            32
Table 1 - Institutional Strengthening Cost Table e9ee.ese-*e       38
4. Illustrative Investment Plans,
Financial and Economic Justification .,,**...-...*,........**          39
Table 1 - Model 10 hai Sierra, Farm Financial Analysis ......      41
Table 2 - Model 40 ha Dairy Farm, Sierra,
Farm Financial Analysis .......e........e,e....         42
Table 3 - Mod3l 100 ha Crop-Livestock Farm, Sierra,
Farm Financial Analysis e.....ee-..-.,....e,..ee        43
Table 4 - 20 ha Crop Farm, Coast, Farm Financial Analysis .        44
Table 5 - 200 ha Crop-Livestock Farm, Coast Region,
Farm Financial Analysis ...,....,,oo,e.....,,.o         45
Table 6 - 50 ha Crop-Livestock Farm, Amazon Region,
Farm Financial Analysis .....................           46
5.  Subsidiary Loan Agreement *. oe....... ....******....**.               47
6.  Project Costs, Financing, Disbursements .....e..e....,......           48
Table I - Project Cost Summary ee....oo.o.o.oe.......              48
Table 2 - Project Financing Plan o...e,ee.eoc....eee.oo.e          49
Table 3 - Disbursements   e*.....ee.e.o.eeeo.e.oooooos             50
Table 4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..............       51
7. List of Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File .........,...o,,.,e.o           .o040e06040    52
MAP:  IBRD 19508



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUhMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Ecuador.
Beneficiaries:       National Development Bank (BNF) and participating
private banks (PB). The ultimate beneficiaries would be
about 5,000 crop/livestock farmers receiving project
subloans.
Amount:              US$48 million.
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:     The Borrower, through tte Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE)
would make available to BNF, a publicly owned
agricultural creeit bank, and private banks the
equivalent in sucres of the proceeds of the loan. BNF
and private banks would relend to project sub-borrowers
at market rates of interest with repayment terms cf up
to 12 years, including a grace period of up to 4 years.
BNF would be permitted to earn an initial spread of 8%
p.a. and PB a spread of 5% p.a., over BCE's flexible
onlending rate. The revenue from the difference between
the onlending rate and the Bank's lending rate would be
used by BCE to cover the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan; however, any shortfall would be made up by
the Government, which would assume the foreign exchange
risk. BNF, through its existing agricultural credit
infrastructure, would facilitate the participation of
commercial private banks.
Project              The project's main objectives would be to: (a) expand
Obiectives:          production especially of exportable products aad
increase farmers' profitability through on-farm
investmepis; (b) strengthen BNF's operating efficiency
and enhance its domestic resource mobilization capacity;
and (c) stimulate private bank participation in
agricultural lending.
Project              The project would include: (a) medium- to long-term
Description:         lending to finance on-farm investments for livestock and
crop production and marketing infrastructure at the farm
level; and (b) a program to strengthen BNF's and PB's
operational efficiency in relation to their agricultural
lending and BNF's domestic resource mobilization.



Proect                It ts expected that the project would cause an increase
Benefits:             in production of a range of products leading to signi-
fics-t foreign exchange earnings/savings. There would
also e intangible beneflts resulting from instltutS.._31
stren%thening, and increased farm employment estliated
at 1.7 million incremental worker/days, Including income
increase for 5,000 farm families of which about 40X
would be small-scale farmers.
Project               The main risk is the sustainability of the macroeconomic
Risks:                adjustment program through which the Government is
reactivating agriculture. The WaIinIstration has to
date ¶oved successfully forward with its reform which
are supported and monltored by both the Bank and the
Fund,
Estimated
Costs:1f
Local          Foreign       Total
(US$ Million)
A. Credit
6n-farm Investments2/                    38.4            36.8         75.2
Incremental Short-term                    5.5            0.6           6.1
B. Institutional Strengthening
Vehicles & Equipment                      001             8.4          8*5
Furniture                                 0.3             0.2          0.5
Local Traliung                            0.6             0.3          0.9
Forelgn Training                           -             0.2           0.2
C,  Base Cost                                44.9            46.5         91.4
Physical Contingencies                    0.0            0.5           0.5
Price Contingencies                       0.1             1.0          1.1
Total Project Cost3/                  45.0           48.0          93.0
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign       Total
US$ Nillion -
IBRD                                      0            48.0           48.0
Particlpating banks (BNF, PB)            31.0                         31.0
Farmers                                  14.0                         14.0
Total                                 45.0          48.0           93.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank PY:         1987    1988     1989    1990    1991     1992    1993    1994
-  -  -  -   ~- -- (-US$ kilillon)  -    --
Annual            3.7     7.9      8.3     7.1     6.0      6.0     6.0     3.0
Cumulative        3.7    11.6     19.9    27,0    33.0     39.0    45.0    48.0
Rate of Return:       Financial returns range from 30S to 37X
Estimated economic rates of return range from 33% to 38%
/ Rounded. Excludes taxes because BNF is seeking exemption from duties.
/  Includes marketing Infrastr.cture and related services at the farm level.
PI Prices as of July 11, 1986.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURlAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
2.01      Ecuador covers about 28.3 million ha, of which about 4.0 million ha
are used for agriculture. There is potential, especially on the coast, for
increasing both the area under production and yields. The nunber of farms
was estimated at 519,000 in the 1975 agricultural census, 67% were 1-5 ha,
19Z were 6-20 ha, 12% were 21-99 ha, and 2% were 100 ha or more. Land
distribution 1s highly skewed: 2% of holdings occupy 482 of the area while
702 occupy 72 of the land.
2.02      In 1970, agriculture accounted for about 33% of GDP, 90% of export
earnings, and employed 652 of the economically ae.tive population. During the
next decade, Influenced by the discovery and export of petroleum, the
relative importance of agriculture declined; and by 1983 the sector,
including fisheries, accounted for only 12% of GDP, 22% of export earnings
and 5OZ of the, economically active popa1-rti&r.  In genEral, avefage yields
have not increased for major crops, remaining at a level of 302 to 752 below
those obtained by farmers using improved technology. Except for livestock
production, forestry, and the shrimp industry, agriculcure has grown slowly.
The growth rate of real. value added for the major export crops-bananas,
coffee, and cocoa-has been about 1.72 p.a. from 1970 to the early 1980g.
The other traditional crops which constitute Ecuador's food production have
grown at only 0.6% p.a., well below the rate of population growth of 2.8Z.
As a consequence, food imports have been rising at a compounded annual rate
of 192; food now constitutes 11% of total imports. Wheat is the major food
import reaching about 330,000 tons in 1983/84. While the comparative
advantage of Ecuador's traditional exports--coffee, cocoa, and
bananas-remains strong, domestic resource cost calculations indicate that
Ecuador also has a comparative advantage in rice, hard corn, cotton and
soybeans, products which are currently imported or only occasionally exported
in years of surplus. An attractive exchange rate and policies that encourage
agriculture investment could stimulate production and eventually lead to
sustained exports of these non-traditional export crops.
Agricultural Policy
2.03      In the past, agricultural development and production were
constrained by inadequate public support and by low investment levels induced
by price, exchange rate and interest policies which no longer stimulated
agriculture. The administration that took office in August 1984 formulated a
new development program designed to: (a) raise farm prices;
(b) progressively eliminate consumer and producer subsidies; (c) achieve
realistic exchange rates; (d) make interest rates adjustable for medium- and
long-term loans, positive in real terms and unified for the sector;
(e) emphasize efficient import substitution and export expansion;
(f) strengthen agricultural support services; (g reduce Government
intervention in the marketing system; and (h) ir)rove terms of trade for
agriculture. Good progress has been made on each of these and Bank is
monitoring further action in the context of sector lending. For instance, In
August 1986, the Monetary Board decided to float the exchange rate and some
interest rates. Earlier this year, the Government helped initiate a
commodity exchange mar'-t for principal agricultural products.



-4-
Public Institutions in the Sector
2.04      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) is responsible for
policy on agricultural research, production and marketing of agricultural
products. It provides extension services to farmers through its Provincial
Directorates (DPAs) and 14 commodity-spbcialized extension organizations to
help mainly commercial farmers and provide back-up support to the DPAs.
However, the DPAs are ineffective because coordination between the commoditv
groups is poor, extensionists' salaries are low and training is deficient.
Most other public sector support to agriculture is carried out by specialized
autonomous agencies of which the most important are INERHI (the Irrigation
Institute), INIAP (the National Agricultural Research Institute), IERAC
(Agricultural Land Titling), ENAC (National Enterprise for Storage and
Marketing), ENPROVIT (National Enterprise for Essential Products), and BNF.
2 05      Agricultural institutions are inadequately organized, managed and
staffed; while there are large numbers of agricultural administrative and
technical staff, many lack the experience, training, equipment, facilities
and incentives to serve adequately. However, the current Administration has
begun to reorganize and strengthen MAG. As an initial step, an Agricultural
Policy Analysis Group has been created and is being strengthened under the
Bank's kriculture Sector Loan to Ecuador (Loan 2626-EC of January 15,
1986). Among its objectives is the preparation of a study to reorganize the
Ministry in order to provide more efficient services. Also, the Government
is aware of the urgent need to upgrade and improve the quality of technical
assistance to farmers. As a result, MAG completed a feasibility study in
1985 for a National Technical Assistance Program in which the organizations
responsible for these activities would be integrated and work toward common
objectives. The IDB is expected to give financial assistance for the
implementation of this program.
The Financial Sy'tem in Ecuador
2.06      The financial system consists of the Central Bank (BCE), the
Government-owned BNF and 32 private banks, 13 finance corporations, 11
savings and loan associations, 26 insurance companies and 2 securities
markets. The five largest private banks held about 50% of the outstanding
credit in 1985. Most of the agricultural credit of private banks is oriented
to short-term commercial credit, and for customers largely concentrated in
urban areas, financing involves mainly short-term loans for agricultural
marketing: transport, packaging, distribution and selling operations for the
domestic or export markets. The current administration's economic policies
which make agriculture investment more attractive, together with the
resources of the proposed loan, should expand the role of the PB in
agriculture to providing long term investment credit as well.
2.07      The policy-making agency iii Ecuador's financial system is the
Monetary Board, which sets policies related to interest rates, exchange
rate, credit, legal cash reserves, and import deposits. The Central Bank
implements and the Superintendency of Banks monitors the measures enacted by
the Monetary Board and ensures the control and audit of the Banking system.



- 5-
The National Development Bank (BNF)
2.08      BNF is, by far, the main source (88%) of agricultural credit.4/
Its institutional capability was improved with the assistance of UNDP/PAO/IDB
consultants during 1980-85.1/ Its annual lending increased 4% in real terms
during 1975-85, and the number of loans increased from over 56,000 in 1975 to
over 67,000 in 1984; most of them (about 75%) were granted to the crop/
livestock sector. During this period, short-term lending (up to two years)
averaged 60%, medium-term (two to seven years) averaged 30%, and long-term
(over seven years) averaged 10%. As of December 31, 1985 its outstanding
loan portfolio was equivalent to about US$507 mIllion6/ and accounted for
about 76% of ics total assets. Amounts in arrears were equivalent to USS50
million or 9.8% of its total loan portfolio, and loans refinanced due to
circumstances beyond the control of its borrowers were equivalent to US$61
million, or about 12% of its total loan portfolio. Around 40% of the total
loan portfolio was made up of loans granted to small-scale producers.
2.09      The financial performance of BNF during 1982-85 was mixed, and
earnings were insufficient to compensate for losses due to inflation;
therefore, extensive borrowings and government equity contributions were
necessary to cope with incremental demand for credit in real terms. Its
ratio of operating cost to average loan portfolio grew from 7.7% in 1982 to
9.9% in 1985. However, considering that BNF is a multi-purpose bank with a
nationwide branch system and a multitude of small loans, its operating cost
is reasonable and compares favorably with similar banks in other countries.
BNF performance is expected to improve as a result of Government's new policy
of maintaining positive real adjustable interest rates. Inspite of fixed low
interest rates on loars granted prior to 1986, BNF's average return on its
loan portfolio is expected to increase from 13% in 1984 to over 22% in 1987
and to 25% by 1990. In addition, BNF is expected to finance (during project
execution) on average about 40% of its annua'l lending with internally
generated funds.
Past Experience with Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has carried out extensive sector work in Ecuador.   A
report-Agriculture: An Assessment and Direction for Development--was issued
in August 1983 and recommendations in it were endorsed by the new
administration, which quickly began to take action supported by the report.
Of the 12 loans and credits totaling US$199.2 made by the Bank for the
sector, four are under implementation: (a) Tungurahua Rural Development
(Loan 1644-EC) for US$18 million; (b) Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development
(Loan 1991-EC) for US$16.9 million; (c) Esmeraldas Rural Development (Loan
2044-EC) for USS16.1 million; and (d) Agricultural Sector Loan (Loan 2626-EC)
for US$100 million signed in January 1986. The three rural development
4/ Agricultural credit defined as loans for six or more months, a period
suitable for agricultural production.
5/ Annex 1 contains a detailed assessment of BNF's organization and
performance.
6t SI 95.75 = US$1.00 (exchange rate as of December 31, 1985).



projects are progressing 8lowly due to complexity of project design,
inadequate institutional capacity and lack of counterpart funding, with
disbursements lagging behind appraisal estimates. To accelerate project
works, a restructuring of the Tungurahua Project became effective in early
1985, which effectively resol' A carlier execution problems.  The Puerto
Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas Projetes were reprogrammed in the same year to
expedite their lmplementation, but progress remained slow (because of a
change in the institution that ove,sees rural development) until mid-1986
when the bidding process for feeder road components finally took place.
2,11      Performance of the past agricultural credit projects (Loan 173-EC
and Credit 222-EC) were assessed in Project Performance Audit Reports dated
October 21, 1975 and December 28, 1979. The reports found them well managed,
improvlng productivity and output on participating ranches. However, there
were deficiencies in the accounts and internal controls of BNF, the principal
participating bank. The most recent livestock credit project (Loan 1459-EC)
was closed in September 1985. Its performance was less than satisfactory and
it had to be extended for two years. The main causes for delays were:
(a) inadequate counterpart funding; (b) declining performance of a
coordinating unit; and (c) availability of competing, lower interest rate
funds which caused delays In disbursements. In the design of the proposed
loan, these problems have been addressed: (i) a savings mobilization program
will help BRF generate lts own funds; (ii) considerable other institutional
strengthening of BNT is also planned; and (iii) onlending terms of the
proposed loan will be competitive with other sources of credit.
III. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01      The proposed project was prepared by BNF, assisted by FAO/UNDP
consultants under a Technical Assistance Program to BNF (PNUD/FAO/ECU80/001),
and Bank missions that visited Ecuador between February 1984 and June 1985.
The project was appraised in November 1985 and negotiations took place In
Washington, D.C., from July 7, 1986 to July 11, 1986. Mr. Marcos Espinel led
the Ecuadorian delegation.
3.02      As a result of the present Administration's sector adjustment
program, supported by the agricultural sector loan, the economic efficiency
and piofitability of the sector is Improving. Consequently, there is an
intensification of the demand for investments in the areas of production,
marketing and exports of agricultural goods. The recent application to the
sector of a system of adjustable interest rates for long-cerm loans and the
support by the project of a savings mobilization program to capture local
savings for 3ubsequent Investments in the sector are aspects which would
enhance the incentives for financial entities to initiate or Intensify
lending for development credit in agriculture, However, the recent decline
in oil prices has affected significantly Ecuador's financial capacity to take
full advantage of these opportunities. The proposed loan would help to
remedy the country's current lack of resources to meet the rising demand for
agricultural investments.



kroject Objectives and Desrito
3.03      The objectives would be to:  (a) expand production, especially of
exportable products, and increase farmers' profitability through on-farm
investments; (b) improve PB's and BNF's operating efficiency regarding
agrlcultural lending and enhance BNF's domestic resource mobilization
capacity; and (c) stimulate the participation of PB In agricultural lending.
3.04      To achieve these objectives, the project would:
(a) establish a program for medium- (2-7 years) and long-term (8-12 years)
loans to finance on-farm investments for crop and livestock production,
and marketing Infrastructure at the farm level. Although no
pre-allocation of loan funds will be made, about 752 of the funds are
expected to be lent by BNF and 252 by PB. The main items of investment
would be Irrigation systems, cattle acquisition, fences, veterinary
equipment, pasture development, fruit trees, equipment for poultry
production, farm machinery, and storage and packaging installations.
Nationwide, about 5SO00 families in an area of about 100,000 ha would
benefit. About 40% of the beneficiaries would be small-scale
farmers,7/ with an average of 10 ha In the Sierra, 20 ha In the Coast,
and 50 ha in the Oriente.
(b) provide institutional strengthening to BNF to complement the UNDP/FAO
and IDB assistance provided to BNF In the past five years (Annexes 2
and 3).   The program would aim specifically at strengthening the
capability of the Departments of Credit and Finance. It would also
train staff, both locally and abroad, In the areas of: savings
mobilization, credit policy promotion, prograimmiAg and planning,
accounting, auditing, reporting, project formulation and subloans
appraisal, approval and supervision. Data collection would be improved
by training personnel who would focus on the impact of credit,
production and productivity, and on technological change. To increase
rural resource mobilization and lending, 8 new branch offices would be
opened and 42 existing ones would recelve additional equipment.
Overall, credit operations would be improved with the procurement of
300 vehicles for loan generation and supervision, and 15 mobile banking
units to serve farmers in areas difficult to reach, and offlce
equipment.
3.05      Domestic resources mobilization would be focused on BNF which would
explore savings mechanisms new to the rural areas such as floating rates,
certificate of deposits, and the provision of broader banking services to
customers to attract savings. Also, to further induce PB to lend for
agricultural investmenit, BNF would analyze the possibility of establishing a
second tier rediscount facility at BN! for PB lending to farmers. To define
these actions, BNF would, no later than March 1, 1987, hire an expert with
qualifications and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank to: (a)
advise on the saving mobilization plan; and (b) carry out the study on the
rediscount facility (Annex 2). The estimated consulting cost is USS70,000,
b sed on the expert's fee, international travel and local allowances [para
4.01(a)J, The Government would review with the Bank semi-annuallly the
7/ Defined as farmers with assets not exceeding the equivalent of US$24,000
including the value of land but excluding housing and agricultural
inventories.



- 8-
adequacy of the resource mobilization [para. 4.01(b)]. Finally, because PB
generally do not possess an adequate infrastructure for processing
agricultural credit, during the initial period of the proposed project BNF
would undertake the evaluation, approval and supervision of subloans made by
the PB for which it would receive a 2% (including those services of para
3.17) fee paid by the PB through BCE at the time of rediscounting. During
this period, BNF would help train PB staff in agriculture subloans evaluation
and supervision. After 18 months, a Jo.nt Borrower-Bank review would take
place to determine whether these functions could be fully assumed by PB
(para. 4.01(c)1.
Project Execution
3.06      BNF would implement the project over a seven-year period using its
normal procedures and would serve as a focal point of communication and
coordination between the Government, PB and Bank. Its 74 branch offices and
420 supervisors under its Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) would prepare
farm development plans for subloan applications and would provide limited
technical assistance to beneficiaries. Its Financial Department (FD) would:
(a) be the liaison between the Bank and BNF maintaining separate accounts to
reflect the operation and financial situation of the loan, its credit
operations, consultant services and training costs; and (b) prepare and
submit annual reports to the management and Bank. BNF's Technical Department
(TD) would be responsible for programing and planning and, in coordination
with MAG, would prepare annual plans for long- and short-term credit
requirements under the loan to be submitted to BNF13 Board of Directors and
subsequently to the Bank.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.07      The Borrower would be the Government of Ecuador, which would assume
the foreign exchange risk. The Central Bank, as the financial agent of the
Botrower, would on-lend the proceeds of the loan to BNF and PB in local
currency. BNF and PB would on-lend these resources to project beneficiaries
at market interest rates. The Central Bank would charge flexible onlending
rates which would initially permit PB to earn a spread of 5% p.a, and BNF a
spread of 8% p.a. In addition, BCE's onlending rate to PB would provide for
an additional 2% fee which PB would pay to BNF for its subloan evaluation and
supervision services. At the recent market rate of 21%, therefore, BCE's
onlending rates would be around 13% to BNF and 14% to PB. The difference
between this onlending rate and the Bank's rate would be used by BCE to cover
part of the exchange rate risk on the Bank loan (this difference would be
4-5% now). BNF's spread 2eflects its transaction costs as a bank with a
nationwide branch system and a large clientele of small- and medium-scale
farmers. The PB spread represents an attractive margit in the current market
(where resources mobilized through other mechanisms are on-lent with a four
point spread) and reflects the lower-cost urban branch system of PB and
clientele who will tend to be larger farmers. Any PB in Ecuador in good
financial standing (confirmed through criteria, such as debt:equity ratios,
satisfactory to BCE and the Bank) could participate. Execution of
Participation and Subsidiary Loan Agreements between BCE and PB, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement against payments made by
the PB and execution of a contractual arrangements between the Borrower and
BCE and of a Participation Agreement between BCE and BNF, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be conditions of loan effectiveness [paras. 4.03(a) and 4.02
raantAurv&1 _



3.08      Subloans would be appraised on the basis of:  farm investment plans
and farm budgets and financial cash flows. BNF would apply the following
crtterla for approval of subloans: an internal rate of return (IRR) on the
cash flow of one point above the opportunity cost of capital for Ecuador
currently at 122 and satisfactory technical and financial feasibility.
Small-scale farmers without land titles could apply for medium-term credit
(up to seven years) on the security of the certificate of possession of their
plots. Fleld officers would prepare the farm investment plans for subloans
no greater than SI 22 million (US$200,000). Plans for larger subloans would
be prepared by specialized local consultant firms. No individual farmer
would receive accumulated loans in excess of US$400,000; for farmers
associations and cooperatlves, this limit would be US$600,000. Sub-loans
above US$300,000 for individual farmers and US$500,000 for farmers
associations and cooperatives would require Bank approval [para, 4.01(d)].
3.09      Repayment terms of subloans would be up to 12 years with a grace
period of up to 4 years. Small-scale farmers would finance at least lOX,
includlig family labur, and medium- to large-scale farmers 20% of the value
of the investment plan. Short-term credit and counts )art funds required to
complement investment plans would be provided by BNF and PB from their
sources of funds.
3.10      In August 1986, the Monetary Board decided to cease fixing savings
and lending interest rates, (except for loans financed with Central Bank
credit), so rates should now be market-determined. Consistent with other
Bank loans to Ecuador, lending rates for subloans would be expected to be
positive in real terms (as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank),
unified and adjustable. Unified rates mean that lending rates would be the
same for all loans except as justified by transaction costs. Adjustable
rates would permit the recuperation of the real value of loans and avoid
financial losses to lending institutions in the sector thus inducing
participating banks to make long-term loans. Inflation during 1985 was 22%,
but in the last six months of 1985, inflation rates declined to annualized
rates of below 15%. In early 1986, following a devaluation and seasonal
pressures, price increases fluctuated around a 201 annual rate. Lending
rates in the sector averaged 21% as of July 1986 plus 2% commission for
long-term loans. The Government would assure that adequate lending terms for
the subloans are maintained and would review with the Bank the adequacy of
these terms at least semi-annually beginning April 1, 1987 [para. 4.01(e)].
If, during any of these reviews, the lending rates and spreads to
intermediaries were determined to be inadequate, and if the Government and
the Bank were unable to agree on remedies for this, the Bank would have the
right to withhold financing of further subloan commitments under the proposed
loan [para. 4.03(b)].
Utilization of Loans to BNF
3.11      BNF's lending forecast for the project period (Annex 1, Table 6)
shows an average annual incremental lending of 22 in real terms, which is
lower than the historical trend because of devalued future collections of
past portfolio and constraints of future resource availability in the
Ecuadorian financial system. The proposed loan is based on BNP's financial
gap for incremental medium- and long-term credit and is expected to
contribute around 2% of BNF's total annual lending. An IDB loan of US$120
million, formalized in January 1986 and expected to be disbursed in four
years, would support short-, medium- and long-term needs of BNF and would



- 10 -
finance about 4% of BNF's annual long-term lending. Consequently, the two
loans 'iould not saturate BNF's capacity to make subloans. Furthermore,
onlending arrangements to BNF for 1DB and proposed Bank loans would be such
that both have the same cosc to BNF and ultimate beneficiaries.   During the
loan execution period, BNF would finance about 40X of its lending from its
own resources. Financing from deposits, as a result of the proposed
mobilization plan, Is projecced to grow from 10% In 1986 to 50% in 1993
(Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9).
BNFs Future Financial Performance
3.12      BNF's financial results would be monitored against three
performance indicators: (a) the ratio of loan amounts in arrears to total
amounts falling due as of Decem'Der 31, would be maintained below 25%; (b) the
operating costs (personnel and administrative costs) would be maintained
below 10% of average loan portfolio; and (c) the debt to equity ratio would
not Exceed 3:1.
Project Costs and Financing
3.13      The total project cost would be about US$93 million, including a
foreign exchange component of about US$48 million, or 52% of total projects
costs. There are no taxes on imports or sales of agricultural inputs and BNF
is pursuing a waiver of any duties it might be liable for in the Importation
of vehicles and equipment to be procured under the project. The base cost,
calculated at November 1985 prices and updated to July 1986, Is estimated at
US$91.4 million, price and physical contingencies, estimated only on vehicles
and equipment, are US$1.6 million or 1.7% of base costs. The physical
contingency allowance is 52. Price contingencies calculated In US dollar
terms following Bank guidelines are 7.22 In 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0%
in 1989, 7.1% in 1990, and 4.02 in 1991. The proposed Bank loan would
finance the full foreign exchange component (US$48 million). tocal costs
would be provided by BNF, PB and ultimate beneficiaries at US$23.0 million,
US$8.0 mlllion, and US$14.0 million, respectively.
Procurement
3.14      Aside from the vehicles and equipment for BNF, the range of goods
to be financed under the project is varled and would be procured by more than
5,000 project sub-borrowers over a seven-year period. Bulk procurement
through international competitive bidding (ICB), therefore, would not be
appropriate. Sub-borrowers would purchase items of their choice through
local commercial channels, who represent a broad spectrum of international
and domestic suppliers. Najor suppliers of agricultural equipment and
production inputs from Bank member countries are represented in Ecuador, and
after-sales service is provided. The consultant for the savings mobilization
component would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. The Borrower
would provide assurances that any purchase of equipment and vehicles for BNF
worth over US$100,000 would be procured under ICB following Bank guidelines.
Smaller purchases would be procured on the basis of local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank provided, however, those contracts so procured shall
not exceed in aggregate US$1.8 million [para. 4.01(f)J.



Table 3.1   Procurement Arrangements a/
(in USS Million)
PROCUREM4ENT                   ICB          LCB          OTHER b/     TOTAL
On-farm Investments                        -           75.2         75.2
(39.2)       (39.2)
Vehicles and Equipment       6.7           2.0          0.9          9.6
(6.7)         (1.6)                     (8.3)
Furniture                     -            0.2          0.4          0.6
Local Training                             -            1.1          1.1
(0.2)        (0.2)
Foreign Training              -            -            0.3          0.3
and Consultants                                       (0.3)        (0.3)
Total                     6.7          2.2          77.9         86.8
(6.7)        (1.6)        (39.7)       (48.0)
a! Values in parentheses reflect amounts estimated to be financed by the
Bank.
b/ Force Account or direct contracting for acquisition under US$30,000.
Disbursements
3.15      Disbursements over 7 years, the standard profile, would be made
against: (a) 651 of BNF's subloans disbursed and for PB subloans 75X the
first year, 652 the second year and 602 thereafter; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported vehicles and equipment, and 802 of
expenditures for goods procured locally; (c) 100% of consultants services and
foreign training; and (d) 20% of local training agreed with the Bank. The
transitional arrangements for PB were necessary because they are experiencing
severe liquidity problems at this time owing to the economic effects of the
drop in oil prices. Disbursements against expenditures on subloans or
contracts valued at under US$50,000 equivalent would be made under Statement
of Expenditures procedures. Relevant documentation in support of such
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank; it would be retained by the
BCE and made available to Bank missions for review. All other disbursement
requests would be fully documented. In order to further facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account would be established at the Central Bank
with an initial deposit from loan resources of US$3.5 million, the equivalent
of four months average loan disbursements requirements.
Accounting and Audits
3.16      BNF and participating banks would maintain separate accounts per
subloan, project accounting records and accounts, and statements of
expenditures (SOE) to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
under the project, including the Special Account. The financial statements
of BNF and PB as well as the accounts and SOE referred to previously would be
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and with
terms of reference approved by the Bank. Not later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year (six months for BNF, which has many rural
branches), a certified copy of the audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank in such detail and scope as requested by the Bank |para. 4.01(g)1.



- 12 -
Reporting
3.17      Participating PB would submit co BNF semi-annually a rcoort which
would include:  (a) amounts committed; (b) number and type of loazkc granted;
(c) disbursements made; (d) subloan repayments and repayments to the Central
Bank; and (e) withdrawals from the loan proceeds. BNF would: (i) prepare
simllar information and consolidate it with that of the PB plus information
on Its own financial situation, liquidity position, profitability, changes in
lending policies and procedures; (ii) submlt to the Bank annual reports on
the results and evaluation of project operations and progress on the
institutional strengthening program; and (lii) prepare, in coordination with
MAG, annual plans for long- and short-term credit needs under the loan to be
submitted to BNF's Board of Directors and subsequently to the Bank. BNF
would also prepare and submit to the Bank a project completion report no
later than six months after the closing date (para. 4.01(h)].
Financial and Economic Justification
3.18      The main project benefits would be:  (a) increased production of a
range of products leading to significant foreign exchange earnings/savings;
(b) intangible benefits resulting from BNF's institutional strengthening;
(c) greater PB lending to agriculture; (d) external economies resulting from
the resource mobilization plan; and (e) alleviation of poverty through about
1.7 million incremental man/days of labor drawn principally from landless
workers at the absolute poverty level. Furthermore, family income of 5,000
families would increase. About 20% of these families have an average per
capita annual income of about US$420, which is below the rural relative
poverty income level in the country.
3.19      An Illustration of financial benefits is given through six farm
models representing the types of farms most likely to receive credit
(Annex 4). Financial rates of return ranging from 30% to 37% reflect the
benefits that can be obtained by using additional inputs to capitalize on
underutilized resources in the current favorable production environment.
Average annual family incomes would increase from the equivalent of US$3,000
to US$9,000 about the seventh year of farm investment. Economic rates of
return for the six farm models range from 33% for milk production to 38% for
crop/livestock production. The difference over financial returns is
explained mainly by shadowed wages which were estimated for unskilled labor
at 70% of the unskilled labor market wage; similarly, family labor was
considered to be 75% of the unskilled labor market wage.
Project Risks
3.20      The main risk is that of the sustainability of the macroeconomic
reforms under way which are improving the profitability of the agricultural
sector. The collapse of oil prices could have negatively affected the
Government's commitment and ability to maintain the reforms but the
fundamental exchange and interest rate decisions introduced in mid-August
1986 (para. 2.03) suggest that such commitment continues to be strong.
Furthermore, the IMF and the Bank are supporting and maintaining Ecuador's
adjustment program, through a stand-by agreement and sector adjustment loans,
respectively, and to date the Government has successfully resisted pressures
to discontinue its reforms. It is expected that no adverse environmental
impact would result as a consequence of the project.



- 13 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations tbat:
(a)   an expert with qualifications and terms of employment acceptable to
the Bank would be contracted to advise on the savings plan and
study on'second tier operations (para. 3.05);
(b)   the Government and the Bank will review semi-annually the adequacy
of BNF's resource mobilization scheme (para. 3.05);
(c)   the Government and the Bank will review the adequacy of BNF's
approval and supervision of subloans made by PBs, as described in
para. 3.05;
(d)   no individual farmer and farmers associations and cooperatlves
would receive accumulated loans in excess of USS400,000 and
USS600,000 respectively; sub-loans above US$300,000 and US$500,000
for individual farmers and farmers cooperatives and associations
respectively would require Bank approval (para. 3.08);
(e)   the Government would maintain adequate lending terms for the
subloans and review with the Bank the adequacy of these terms at
least semiannually beginning April 1, 1987 (para. 3.10);
(f)   procurement would be as specified in para. 3.14;
(g)   accounting and audit procedures would be as described in para.
3.16;
(h)   reporting procedures would be as outlined in para. 3.17*
4.02      It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that:   (i) the
Borrower and BCE executed contractual arrangements; and (ii) the Central Bank
and BNF had signed a Participation Agreement, both satisfactory to the Bank,
concerning on-lending arrangements (para. 3.07).
4.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)   against payments made by any PB, that such PB had executed a
Participation and Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Central Bank,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.07); and
(b)   if lending rates and spreads to intermediaries were determined to
be inadequate and if the Government and the Bank were unable to
agree *n remedies for this, the Bank would have the right to
withhold financing of further subloan commitments under the
proposed loans (para. 3.10);
4.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of VS$48 million to the Republic of Ecuador on the terms and
conditions shown in Chapter I.



- 14 -
ANNEX I
Page I o0 5
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
The National DevelopMent Bank (BNF) and Agricultural Credit
Legal Status and Objectlves
1.        BNP is an autonomous financ!al institution operating under the
legal framework of its Organizational Law issued on March 28, 1974 by
Presidential Decree 327. Its main objective Is to promote development
through the provision of credit. It f. iishea credit mainly for agrlculture
and livestock production and for artisans, small industry, agroindustries,
and for marketing needs of these subsectors. It also grants credit for dev-
elopment of forestry, fisheries and related medium-scale industries, and
tourism infrastructure. In addition to its credit operatlons, BNF is empow-
ered to carry out normal banking functions (e.g. receiving deposits and gran-
tiag guarantees), and it administers and acts as an agent for special Govern-
ment funds. It is also empowered to issue securities marketable at the local
stock exchange, and to promote, organize and finance as shareholder, enter-
prises for marketing a-d processing of agricultural products and for supply-
ing inputs for agricultural production and small industries and fisheries.
Organization and Management
2.        BNF currently comprises the head office located in Ouito, 11
regional offices, 57 branches and 9 agencies spread all over the country. It
is the only bank in Ecuador able to reach to almost all the farmers of the
country. Its organizational structure is shown In Chart 1. BNF's Board of
of Directors includes: (a) the Minister of Agriculture or the Subsecretary of
Agriculture; (b) the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Integration or the
Subsecretary of Industries; (c) a representative of the Supreme Counsel of
the Presidency of Ecuador; (d) the Deputy General Manager of the Central
Bank; (e) the Technical Director of National Planning and Economtc
Coordination; (f) a representative of the armed forces; (g) a representative
of the artisans and small industry; and (h) three representatives of the
agricultural producers. It has 3,400 employees, of which 9% are at the
executive level, about 412 are techniclans, and the remaining 502 are support
staff.  Of the total staff, 742 are located in branches and agencies; and
over 60% have more than five years experience with BNF.
Lending Policies and Procedures
3.        BNF's lending policies are basically sound.  Its lending
procedures. which were developed with the assistance of FAO experts during
1981-1984, are in general satisfactory. The basic requirem^nts for its many
lines of credit are advertised in a booklet published annually and
distributed nationwide. Its lending programs are approved annually by the
Monetary Board and their execution monitored monthly by BNF's management.
TheAe programs are well structured and include a critical analysis of the
national economy, production trends, resource availability, production
priorities and credit needs by regions and by subsectors.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
4.        Policies on interest rates and other charges for BNF's lending
operations and for savings and time deposits, are set by the Monetary Board.
Previously, the interest rates set at tire time a loan was granted were fixed
during the life of the loan. Now, under the proposed loan, interest rates
would be variable and would be maintained positive in real terms.
AccointLM and Audit in Procedures
5.        BNF's chart of accounts Is approved by the Superintendency of Banks
and its accounting procedures follow regulations stated in the Banking Law.
Its accounting records are partially processed using electronic data
processing equipment. In the near future all accounting, budgeting and loan
portfolio control will be processed electronically with additional equipment
to be purchased under IDB financing and under the proposed project.
Prior to 1982, accounting records were carried out on a cash-basis.
Currently, accruals accounting is followed except for recording revenues on
loan amounts in arrears. These are recorded only after legal collection
efforts have been successfully completed and payments made by subborrowers
usually beyond the fiscal year on which the revenues are earned; therefore,
loan revenues are understated. Since this is not a generally accepted
accounting principle in Ec-ador, arrangements would be made during project
execution for BNF to accre revenues on loan amounts in arrears until these
loans are paid or written off the books. Interest and principal amounts
overdue for over two months are recorded as amounts in arrears and provisions
for bad debts are made proportionally to the age of the amounts in arrears,
at rates ranging from 1.25% for arrears one month old to 100% for arrears 36
months old. Amounts in arrears for over three years are written off the
books against accummulated provisions for bad debts.
6.        BNF's consolidated financial statements are audited annually by its
internal auditor, by the National Controller's Office (Interventoria General)
and by independent external auditors. BNF's overall system of operational
and internal control was weak and Inadequate until consultants from
UNDP/FAO/IDB assisted BNF (from 1980 to 1985) to improve these systems
substantially. As a result of this technical assistance, BNF's institutional
capabilities Improved significantly.
Agricultural Credit
7.        BNF is the main source of credit for the agriculture sector.   It
provides about 88% of the sector's institutional credit, with the remainder
coming from private banks. Its lines of credit include: (a) banking credit,
mp-inly for well established medium- and large-scale farmers; (b) development
credit, mainly for small-scale farmers that are beginning operations in the
sector; (c) commercial credit, mainly for marketing operations of farm
products. Short-term credit is available under (a), (b) and (c) above.
Medium- and long-term credit is available only under lines of credit
described in (a) and (b) above. Up to 80% of an investment plan is financed
under the line of credit described in (a) above, and up to 100% under the
lines of credit described in (b) and (c) above.



- 16 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
8.        BNF's annual lending increased by 4% p.A. In real terms during the
period 1975-85. During this period short-term lending (up to 2 years)
averaged 60%, medium-term (2-7 years) averaged 30%, and long-term (over 7
years) averaged 10%. Lending to the agriculture/livestock sector exceeded
consistently 70% of the annual lending. The number of loans granted also
increased from over 56,000 in 1975 to over 67,000 in 1984. Most of them
(about 75% average) were granted to the agriculture/livestock sector. Loans
to small-scale farmers averaged about 50% of the total number of loans
granted during the period and about 30% of the value of total loans.
9.        Forec:asts prepared on the basis of financial resources expected to
be available for BNF (Table 6) shows an average increase of about 2% per
annum in real terms of BNF's lending during the period 1986-1992, assuming a
yearly 20% inflation rate.   This increase is lower than its historical
lending trend and it is the result of: (a) devalued future collections of
past portfolio and; (b) estimated constraints of future resource
availability.    BNF will be able to cover about 60% of the sector's estimated
demand for credit for the period 1985-19881/. Therefore, a greater
participation of private banks will be pursued in order to cover the sector's
financing gap.
Financial Aspects and Financial Performance
10.       Main sources of funds for BNF operations have been: (a) equity
contributions made by the Government: (i) 86% of the 2% tax on mining and oil
concessions; (ii) compensation for losses due to devaluation (hardly made
effective)2!; (iII) national emergency funds (FONEM); and (iv) foreign
borrowings (IDB, AID); (b) collections from loan portfolio; (c) internal
borrowings from: (i) Central Bank (lines of credit approved by the Monetary
Board); and (ii) National Financing Corporation (FOPINAR program for
small-scale industries and artisans); (d) foreign borrowings (CAF, IDB);
(e) issuance of development bonds; (f) trust funds: (i) 5.6% of coffee export
tax; and (ii) rural development projects (SEDRI); (g) deposits: (i) from the
public, and (ii) from Government agencies.
11.       BNF financial performance during 1982-1985 was mixed and earnings
were insufficient to offset losses due to inflation. Its performance was
seriously impaired by its policy of fixed interest rates (para. 4), those
applied prior to 1982 turned largely negative in real terms when inflation
increased substantially during 1982-1984. From September 1977 to August 1982
loans (including medium- to long-term) were granted at interest rates of 9%
plus commissiot. ranging from 2% to 4%. From September 1982 interest rates
were slowly increased to reach a range from 16% to 21%, plus commission of up
to 2% by the end of 1984, while inflation was at the rate of 16% in 1982, 48X
in 1983, and 31% in 1984. Current interest rates range from 18% to 23% plus
commission of 2%, vis-a-vis an estimated inflation rate of 16% compounded for
the last six months.
1/ Estimated by BNF on the basis of production targets stated in the
National Development Plan published by the Government.
2/  As of December 31, 1984, the Government owes about USS26 million
equivalent for past debt service and adjustments on outstanding foreign
currency debt.



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
12.       Income statements (Table 2) show that BNF was able to obtain a net
income equivalent to less than 2% in 1982 and less than 1% in 1983, a net
loss equivalent to less than 1% in 1984, and a net income equivalent to less
than 1% in 1985 of its average loan portfolio. As demonstrated by
performance indicators (Table 1), this decline in profitability was due
mainly to the rather slow growth of the average return on its loan portfolio
(from 11.3% in 1982 to 16.1% in 1985) and to some extent, to the growth of
the average cost of its borrowings (from 3.9% in 1982 to 6% in 1985). Also a
moderate growth of its operating cost (from 7.7% of the average loan
portfolio In 1982 to 9.9% in 1985) contributed to the decline in
profitability.
13.       Balance sheets (Table 3) show that the BNF's loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1985, was equivalent to about US$507 million3/ and accounted
for about 76% of Its total assets. Most of BNF's loan portfolio has been
financed by borrowings and demand deposits. Borrowings as of the same date
were equivalent to about US$271 million and demand deposits were equivalent
to about US$158 million. This dependency on borrowings was evident prior to
1982 and thereafter. From 1982 to 1985, the ratio of borrowings (including
demand deposits) over loan portfolio exceeded 80%, and the over three-fold
growth of the borrowings portfolio encompassed the almost two-fold growth of
the loan portfolio (Table 1). The main source of borrowings was the Central
Bank, and the main sources of demand deposits were public entities. BNF's
performance regarding arrears was satisfactory. Loan portfolio arrears
decreased from 14.1% in 1982 to 9.8% of its loan portfolio in 1985. As of
December 31, 1985, amounts in arrears were equivalent to about USS50
million. This performance was influenced by BNF's -escheduling policy. From
1982 to 1984 rescheduled loans averaged 17% of total loans at the end of the
year.  However, at the end of 1985 rescheduled loans averaged only 12% of
total loans outstanding and were equivalent to about US$61 million. Although
the proportion and the amount of refinanced loans is considerably high, BNF's
rescheduling policy is in many ways belpful, since only those loans of
farmers whose production was impaired by causes beyond their control
(drought, flooding, etc.) are refinanced, but at prevailing interest rates;
therefore, loans that otherwise would have been written off the books are
maintained within the performing portfolio. During 1982-1984 repayments of
previously rescheduled loans averaged 90% of reschedulings made on each of
those years.
3/ S/ 95.75 = USS1.00 as of December 1985.



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
14.       Financial projections prepared for the period 1986-1995 (Tables 5
to 9)!/ show that the financial performance of BNF may improve substantially
as a result of increased and variable interest rates to be applied on its new
loans. Though low interest rates on BNF's old loan portfolio will prevent an
immediate and significant growth of the average return on Its outstanding
portfolio, these returns would cover fully during project execution the Cost
of borrowings and operations and would produce a net income ranging from 5%
to over 10% (Table 1). These returns would not be enough, however, to offset
the erosion in purchasing power of future loan repayments due to inflation,
unless interest rates on new loans are increased substantially. Therefore,
large equity contributions by the Government would still be unavoidable.
Nevertheless, BNF may be able to self-finance about 40% of its annual lending
during project execution period (Table 9). BNF's financial performance would
be closely monitored during project execution by comparing its actual
performance to the annual financial performance indicatore shown in Table 1;
three of which would be covenanted under the proposed loan: (a) the ratio of
loan amounts in arrears to total amounts falling due as of December 31, would
be maintained below 25%; (b) the operating costs (personnel and
administrative costs) would be maintained below 10% of average loan
portfolio; and (c) the debt to equity ratio would not exceed 3 to 1.
4| Assumptions used for financial projections are available ln the project
file.



UJcSLW UDIr 11 ECT
trjbe 1 W    - FtEIUISL PWAICE UWINICITO 
1962     £933    1964     It0     196      tm6      *I      196      596      599     192      1993    1994     195
Brutb of gros lton prtfoleo (II        22.90   31.40    42.34    44.74   31.50    29.04   26.86    25.33     .90    26.22    24.53    25.40   23.63    1.12
Lou pWrtfolio in arears (tl tt        14.01    10.A8     9.27    9.10     7.7       .46    5.22     4.22    3.34     2.71     2.37    2.11     2.9      2.OS
Avrep retw     a leaws (U             I.30    12.11    13.45    16.11   19.4     22.4    23.61    24.39    24.75   24.39    24.9    24.96    24.96    24.97
Awep cost of bwrrodiep (U              3.90     3.53     4.31    400     10.5     12.9    14.J0    15.66    16.91   11.96    16.94    19,9   20.49    20.92
Brouth of borrouiogs tSI               13.70   3091     32.34   46.2     16.93    23.61   21.69    21.05    19.95   I.95     21.48   22.61    22.33      .92
borrouings owr loan portf. ()         65.09    91.35    6.92    84.6     75.28    72.11   69.29    67.03   63.35    59.20    57.73   56.54    3.S     52.12
Eqity owr loa     ortfolio (Ui         25.93   24.34    24.29   38.38    36.91    36A.41  4.24     43.49    45.44   47.15    40.35   49.64    3.54     54.10
hbtlEfqity ratio 11) 21               328.10  31V.27   349.62  M.59     203.96   17.73   172.10   154.12   139.41  125.56   116.17  113.     1H.52     96.34
Liquidity ratio fl)                   107.60  119.10    6. 1    109.25  149.72   143.36  130.64   116.34   9.89      66.25   30.n7   76.29    76.36    64.33
Operating cost/ln portfolio I1(         7..     61.79    9.37    9.92     9.      9.02     6.39     7.93     7.61    7.19     4.3     6.9      6.30     6.13
bt imoa/lo     Wrtfolio (1)             1.97    0.10    -0.21    0.3O     5.0      6.37    7.73     .       6.79     9.40     9.69    9.78     9.U4    10.21
Arrers/Loas falling dute     3         35.     30.64    25.69   25.00    25.00    25.00   25.00    25.06    25.09   25.09    25.00   25.96    25.OO    25.00
* 192-S actult 1945 forecast.
11 Loes in arers over gross otstadimg !an pwtfolio.
2 Borreud fdsinhuluding do         dposits) owr total uqty.
3l sof tee     r 3l of e be yr.



- 20 -
Tible 2
HaIPDOR
ARICULTURAL C   TEDT II P1DuECr
FW Ieuz and EKpsnsea 1/
SI biUiS                       11SS mnigi ej!ivalsent *
19      1983     1984    1985      1982     1983     1984      1985
FnCial 1vmus 2/                 1.86     2.48    3.79     6.58    64.14     56.95    62.85    94.59
p    Yraje  awles 2/            0.55     0.64    1.08     2.08    18.97     14.70    17.91    29.90
Financial  mm                 1.31    1.84    2.71     4.50    45.17     42.25    44.94    64.69
ilnistrteeaq)e          3/      1.27     1.80    2.64     4.05    43.79     41.33    43.78    58.22
Operating inm     (loss)     0.04     0.04    0.07     0.45     i.3       0.92     1.16     6.47
blectiora of baed debts         0.78     0.62    0.60     0.65    26.90     14.24     9.95     9.34
Provisicx for bad debts         0.53     0.71    0.73     0.88    18.28     16.30    12.11    12.65
Other e    eat
reveme (expenses)             0.03     0.07    0.00    (0.07)    1.03      1.61     0.00    (1.00)
Net ionfle (loss)            0.32     0.02   (0.06)    0.15    11.03      0.47    (1.00)    2.16
* US$1.00 - V 29.00, SI 43.55, SI 60.30, S/ 69.56 averae exchwge rat   for the year 1982, 1983
1984 ard 1985 respectiely.
1/ Smarized from 1982-84 axlited fincal statents, and from 1985 ualted finail statemets.
Lterest plus ox11ssi= and otber hages.
3T    ndes percmnel xpss and                 of fixed assets.
My 21, 1986



- 21 -
¶1b3 3
waI        IP~hL                                    AN= I
low E1m of Rub
. ~      ~       iI
S/ bflllm                      ix V1Illan em4vwo*
1982    1983    1984    1985         1982    1983     1984    1M5
sCI3m (W FMU
Not Inu (1t)                  0.32    0.02   (0.06)    0.15       11.03     0.46    (0.99)   2.16
l~cinh     _                   Qm 0.53  0.71   0.73    088        18.28    16.30    12.10   12.65
aces inter1 1  gauratim     O.85    0.73     0.67    1.03       29.31    16476    11.0O    14.81
l**dzW capital dAIgo          (3.00)  (0.05)    1.27    0.09     (103.45)   (1.15)   21.06    1.29
Nt izter13  gnurtu         (2.15)   0.68     1.94    1.12      (74.14)   15.61    32.17    16.10
at  btrib                0.24    1.07    2.50    6.24        8.28    21.57     41.6    89.71
Pixrw1zg.: Loa -Y              4.77    6.39    8.04    15.61      164.48   146.13   1133.   2214.41
Pa1eI               0.27    0.10    0.60     0.69        9.31     2.30     9.95    9.92
flui                0.99    1.21     2.32    1.69       2D.35    27.78    38.41   24.30
ion         tso 2/             6.60    9.64    11.12   17.00      227.59   221.36    184.41  24M.39
Dqci and esvqp
Iz _m     (deam)           (0.11)   0.71     2.46    3.63       (3.78)   16.3D    40.80    52.19
Total Sources            1021    19.80   2B.98   45.98      352.07   454.65    400.60  A61.02
T,    atse   2                 7.3    13.91    22.5    33.64      252.42   319.40   365.67  483.61
i~ayintof bwrGdzqp:
Inwl                3.85    3.8S     6.65   10.30      1316      85.40   110.28  148.07
IoPbI4P            O.6     0.08    0.12     0.15        2.01     181      1.99    2.16
B1nds               0.04    0.11    0.21    0.          1.38     2.53     3.49    4.17
0.09    0.10     0.10    0.27        3.10     2.3      1.66    3.88
InTne (dsie) of 
a   w 3/                   (0.06)   0.79     0.07    0.53       (2.07)   18.14     1.16    7.62
oal ApUcat1m             11.30   18.84   29.2D   45.18      389.66   432.61   484.25   649.51
Ch saplu    (dsfsit)          (1.09)   0.96   (0.22)    0.80      (37,59)   22.04    (3.65)  11.51
tlhah at Ibd    of year        2.25    1.16     2.12    1.90       77.59    26.64    35.16   27.31
Coh at eid -of y               1.16    2.12     1.90    2.70       40.00    48A68    31.51   38.82
* US$1.00 - S/ 29.00, S/ 43.5, SI 60.30, S/ 69856 aver   ezdhnu rate for the years 1982,  1, 1984 adl
1985, ruapIectily.
I/ T.lud1 a Cktra  U.k liz  of ced1t.
Dimi      refiiumi 'a.t
Y     li   find ass.
July 21, 1986



- 22-
, G   L~MIM                                           ANr  I
Tabhle 4
WAIEmDAL c1T n FKwEct
w   -   RAl     e 11
__~~~~~~~~~g                     Igo      Tu   -    M   s     ig193              IN84 _1iml
,ASS=S
Csh tmd b   t depositt             1.16     2.12    1.9D    2.70       35.15    39.18     28.57    28.20
1TO                             11.16    16.29   24.17    37.49     338.18   301.11    363.46   391.54
TMM rIfb_xed                     3.06     417     5.64     5.85      92.73    77.08     84.81    61.10
1    l8 n                        2.48     2.53    3.07     4.76      75.15    46.76     46.16    4.71
Tmmu-other                       0.5D     0.26    0.22     0.47      15.15     4.81      3.31     4.91
Ttal loas outstamdig         17.70    23.25    33.10   48.57     5X.36    429.76     497.74  5W.26
husd iter8st receivable          0.87     1.20    1.58     3.80      26.36    22.18     23.76    39.69
Acam. prowsix for bad debts      0.49     0.71    0.73     1.13      14.85    13.12      10.97  11.A
Not l                        18.08    23.74    33.95   51.24     547.87   438.82     510.53  535.15
lnbmtms                           0.50      0.74    0.79    0.96       15.1 i    3.68     11.88    10.03
o°*    heez 2/                     1.44     2.24    35      859        43.64    41.40     53.23    89.71
FPvn Amato                        0.56      0.62    0.70    0.91       16.97    11.46     10.53    9.50
A   11ai depreciatim             0.13      0.18    0.32    0.31        3.94     3.32      4.81    3.24
Net f±l.d amet                   0.43     0.44    0.38     0.60      13.03     8.14      5.72     6.26
Total A8ets                  21.61    29.28    40.56   64.09     654.84    541.22    609.93  669.35
Deposits 3/                       6.22      8.26   10.73    15.16     188.48   152.68    161.35   158.33
fNtrr llhl                        8.84     12.98   17.38    25.96     267.88   239.93    261.36   271.12
kcrued interest pwayble           0.24      0.22    0.53     0.80       7.27     4.07      7.97     8.36
kouts pwaable                      1.72     2.16    3.88     7.41      52.12    39.92     5b.35    77.39
Pa-tin capital                    3.00      3.00    3.00     3O0       90.91    55.45     45411    31.33
ler     4/                         1.27     2.64    5.10    11.61      38.48    48.80     76.69   121.25
Lbal.local Fprofit (lM)           0.32      0.02   (0.06)   0.15        9.70     0.37     (0.90)    1.57
lbtal equity                     4.59     5.66    8.04    14.76     139.09   104.62     120.0Q  154.15
Tbtal MAbiftfeS                 21.61    29.28   40.56    64.09     654.84   541.22    609.93   669.35
* USl.00    S/ 33.00, SI 54.10, Sl 66.50, S/ 95.15 as of D1aenbe 31, 1982, 1983, 1984 and I985, respectively.
1/ &=irizd from 1982-84 axited fln&kIAl             anw ad frm 195 unmtditd finfciel stsmots.
'F/ lixtes deferrd assets.
3/ zK.ude safr~gs.
_  beludes      t manlt equity ctributicms.
July 21, 1986



- 23 -
Table 5
C          LTI 1 M IT 1it i
Table 5: W    -  INE AN EPE          F1EM
Si bilim
FUtil       19      1967    1968     1969    1990    199i    19      19 l     194 M   199
REM
Itrwest & CeIssLP an lo6g             11.21   16.44   2.0      26.70   36.74   46.75   X69     73.42    91.46  109.46
Other charps an emissions              0.43    0.39     0.05    0.76    1.10    1.50    210      3.00    4.20     .0
Other  watiumal                        1.00    1.16     1.24    1.31    2.00    2.50    3.00    3.50     4.00    4.0
Total                             12.66   17."    23.6   X3.79     3.      50.75   63.79   79.92   99.66   120.06
OIES
Intwut Go brminp                       4.72    6.82    9.30    12.53   16.31   20.6    26.02    3323    42.16   49.47
Pusmal                         1.20    2.90    3.6      4.11    5.01    6.01    7.22     .66    10.39   12.47   14.96
AduiDistrative                 1.h2    1."     2.2      2.74    3.2     3.94    4.73    5.7      6.81    Li6     9.0
Otksr Wratioaal                        0.00    0.00     0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.10
Total                              9.52   12.56   16.21   20.6    26.26    32.53   40.36   50.42   AL*     74.34
operatin incus                         3.14    5.41     1.6     9.%    13.57   18.22   23.44    29.50   36.6    45.74
ba-qawatimal rrnmw             1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.0l
m-aprnatimal "Pam              0.95    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
Other                          0.30    0.00    0,00    0.00     0.0     0.00    0.00    0.0     0.00     0.00    0.00
OhKiatimO                              0.13    0.17    0.22     0.26    0.30    0.35    0.39    0.43     0.U     0.2
Provisin for bad Jdts          0.04    0.20    0.21     0.22    0.22    0.22    0.23    0.25    0.23     0.32    0.39
fhtarv cerrctiuls                      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.0     0.0
bt imon flons)                         2.1 5L03         7.22    9.46   13.05   17.65   22.60    28.79   36.06   4.08



x     _   8 8 8 883g8ta3ss  1 ia;,g l 
¢  e B   8t  °   ;  8* *8  8er$t      88 i    t   W  l  l d 
r  t1 gUo.8**                                o~S~4  i< $ 
B ~Sodw*8a81;883dl$so8S8f 88;8g*t lta-J J tP 
D-Xt ;zw8 t8$g8g 8 srS s Samsun$ a  asa    a F8SE < t  a 6 al fi;4i 
a    a;  age's!!  .2 S1 8 $  1 9  8 a. a! t; 8  Z  383   a  ai  3 8. 8   8 8.4 St   at °*   A 9 
:~~~~l C; 5  A!AZ8  s8 t8A  4 * a 8- a 8i _44  J-4-4 8  ,s8Bo8 ."Xei" 
z " " s o° 8 88 "s 8 w 88 | X o8-88 8 W r8 8;^ BILf<r 
' .5
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                             Z tZ -  g|  f



- 25 -
AMNX 1.
Table 7
AMRICILTURL   CR0IT 11 IJECT
Table 7i W     -    LACE   M   FORECST
b billion
1994     10I7     193     1909I    199      199      M        19      14       19"
ATh
Cash as hot DposIts                       7.66     7.79     9.37    11.92   11.94     7.34    9.0      I1.3     L.23    14.57
kAcred interet r       Ivable             2.EO     4.11     5.52    7.11      M.1I   11.6     14.67    12.36    2.9      7.42
krcots rKeivdble                           00      O.04     0.00    0.00     0.0        0 0.00  0.00    0.00      .o     0.00
lavatory                                  0.00     0.00     0.0    0.0Q     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
Prepaid spate                             0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.09     0.00    0*0
Intretets                                 0.96     0.9      0.9     0.                0        0.94     0.94    0.9O     0.96
Short-term lms                           45.00    4.00     53.00   56.00    19.00    43.00     9.00    OL00    94o     1600
Loa    do aithin ne yr                    3.15     4.00     4.25     1.04    3.60     0.00    13.40    20.20    2.0*     0.00
Total current nuts                     40.17    65.      72.10   n."      94.61    90.99   107.9t   132.w0   tUai    t11."
Los do ae we ye                          10.09    24.09    41.84   67.47    97.97   132.7    172.47   2182      ?.47     7.47
Lha    in arr  sr                         5.03     5.33    5.44     5.52     5.55     5.69     6.19     6.90     U       9.71
Ikcue.prowisiu fwr bad debts              1.33     1.54     1.6      1.      2.21     2.43     2.       2.94    L23      3.67
llt loans ovenr -  y                   13.79    27.1     45.54   71.A0   101.22   13.12    17L8     222.22  277.31   363.5
eferred asts                              5.45     5.45     L45     4."      4.91     6."      4.90     6.98    6..9     6.96
Flled mists                               1.27     t.63     1."     2.35     2.7l     3.07     3.43     3.79    4.15     4.51
kculated d      Kriatiom                  0.44     0.61     0.83     1.09    1.0      1.74     2.13     2.57    3.04     3.5
llt fixd atts                           0.93     1.02     1.14     1.26     1.31    1.33     1.30     1.22     1.11    0.95
Total buts                          90.24   100.20   124.25  15.13   192.12   235.42   292.14   363.31   44.24    22.9
LIIBIITIT  O m   E  ,ITY
kcrumm! interest payable                  1.19     1.70     2.32    3.13     4.09     5.15     4.51     931     10.54   12.3
kcaunts payable                           7.41     7.41     7.41    7.41     7.41     7.41     7.4      7.41     7.41    7.41
Dmnd doposits                            13.43    15.03    16.93    19.03   21.33    2L39     2t3      30.13    33       7.73
hart-ters borongp II                     16.35    19.65    24.15   35.15    49.65    66.15    89.65   120.65   119.65  lThtl
&Iraqs die witWin      e yer              1.02     2.15     2.29    2.23     3.09     2.94       20     3.21   L33       0.00
Total urrt liailitia                  40.19    45.94    55.10   46.95     5.54   10.50    133.59   149.    214.4    234.44
8rosinp du       r -    ear              14.48    22.60     7.0T   31.29    31.11    31.12    31.93    31.05   29.13    31.73
Paid-t Caita                              3.00     3.00     3.00     3.00    3.00     3.       3.0      3.0    L3         L.O
bnvtf*t quity canttirtib    m            11.1     20.67    23.6    29.21    34.71     0.42    44.3     52.S     59.3    4.13
surplus an ale of awts                    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.o0     0.00     0.0      0.0o      O  0     .00    Lo.e
Iwluatio gains (nsl                       a0.00    0.00     0.0      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0      0.00    0.
kcc    atuW earunis (lses)                2.96     7."     15.21   24.9     37.74    55.3     7L19    100.97   14.03   1.8
Total eity                             23.57    31.66    42.07   56.90    75.45    91.0    127.54   56L50    204.A  ZLS9
Total liahilitin and Equty           00.24   100.20   124.25   155.13   192.12  235.42   2.16     363.31   4.24    S2.39
11 Include tie   dpoits and savings.



- 26 -
rail. & W     -   V11      .t 
92      1M       1954     IE      £       1       1M M     I9      £990    1991     I"2     1W3      £994    19
ot iatwua1 cA& pgo    ati            -2.15     0.4     I.4    1.12     4.S2    4.63    6.97     .11    12.53    1.79    21.81   27.61    34.59   4.02
b3avmt f lam      1.1               .0      *.64   11.12    17.00   2.23    40.45    $2.67   57.20   57.3     60.47   70.5t    .1.6   100."   1222
IIt    dt of iwra      -3          3.9L     4.04    6.99    10.74   13.27   16.52    19.65   25.29    3273    4.59      .46    77.20   01.26   130.8£
4m ..tilUcI 4wr lalin                 0.53    6.21     6.04    7.113   2041    36.5    40.09    41.02   37.5     31.46   33.34   32.10     4.30   3.42
_m) Iuliq                             1.32    L.91    22.05   33.64    45.00   67.00   15.00     5.00   93.00   106.0   122L.o   14.00   179.00  191,00
f:umci.g  q                           6.42     7.63   IS.97   26.26    24.82   30.44    34.91   41.94   55.42    74.34    0.6 115.95     14.70   155.51
Fisagiag:
Iwr u   p fr   Cautrd              5.36     7.60   10.36    17.30   15.32   16.57    36.9    19.30    22.00   26.00   31.00    V.00    44.00   47.00
h_aitb  m    w£ip                  e0.0     0.71    2.4      L6      4.32    6.43    11.9    17.10   27.3     37.50  5$3.      7L3o    93.60  to4.0e
hmmiqm    fru i..L.                         0.10    0.60     0.69    3.00    4.00     3.00    3.00    0.ee     0.00    0.00     0.e0    0.0     0.o0
Ownuiq    from 1.3.L .             0.00     0.00    0.00    e.00     0.00    0.70     0.66    O.4     0."      0.7     1.1£     1.2     0.00    0.e0
41it7 ad hwwm                      1.19    -0.73    2.55     4.64   -4.12    2.57      25      .44    L.20     9.37    L05      4.32    2.10    4.5
Total fiaKciag                   6.52     7.63   15.97    2.26    24.52   30.44    34.91   4.9      542     74.34   0.16    115.99  144.70   £5503
'£942-6 act.) j116-9 fusocut.
A2IN 1
Table 9
ASlJVATli MXlIT 11
*IcILTin  .ui           .
Tail Is       -   FIMII     PFIA 
£962    I93       93"    IM5      393      w3     19        3 19      0    1        1992    193     1994    £m
l9t istarl Cub g.atim               -29.37    4.9      6.80    3.33    10.04    6.9£    9.36    10.8     L3.45   15.3    17.00    13.66   19.32   22.3t
bIqqmt of luo I.)
lpywSat of briwvmla (-I
O   fudl awnaile mfar Imia           6.33    45.I£   27.57   21.94    45.51   54.57    5.45    49.42   40.43    29.     27.74   21.69    19.16   19.54
_al lil                              140.00  100.00  100.00   100.00  100.00  £00.00   £00.00  100.00   100.00  16.00   ;00.00   100.00  £00.00   100.00
Fiucing gP                           93.17    54.05   72.43   73O.     S4.49   45.43    46.55   50.5    sV.5     10.13   72.26   71.1     10.94 "5.4
Fisiqs
A   ftimp frm CmWtral h            n.22    54.64   46."     53.43   34.04   24.73    22.53   23.49    2366    24.S3   25.41    25.00   24.53    24.61
Dapgits ad S9wi                    0.00     5.10    £1.14   10.79    9.40    9.95    15.7    20.40    29.35   35.39   43.44    49.53   We.      54.4
bwriWun     fro  1.U..              3.69    0.72    2.7      2.e05  11.1£    5.97     4.00    3.61     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
lwrrdep frn 1.8.3.0.                0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.04    1. 15   1.13     0.9     0.92     .91     0.96    0.00     0.40
Equity ad hwvn                     16.26   -5.61    I.54    13.79   -0.27    3.93     3.01    3.74     5.59    9.31    2.50     2.92    1.17     2.40
Total finacing                   93.17   54.85   72.43    74.06   54.49    45.43   46.55   50.5     5.59    70.13    12.26   78.31   80.84    61.46



AIOJLUULL CEDIT it F1OJ!
Chart 1. 811F Orsatl= (hat
| ourd of Dixetors,
Camoral mger 
r              |               Dputy l enral   r
,Geeral Secretarat                                                  Iol or  Coordta onitte. Leo Ml or
con        Credit _ull
terprteea  ta Processing  ~   co~~  3enkin    ~     control-    LIwatock
.metrw                             I ... bbE



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Resource Mobilization
General
1.        In the last decade, Ecuador has been unsuccessful in mobilizing
local resources in terms of either surpassing its own levels of the 1970s or
reaching reasonable levels by international standards. In general, financial
liabilities (M3) as a percentage of GDP declined in the last decade from
about 292 to 24%, with currency circulation and demand deposits being the
principal financial asset. These results Indicate that the record of
resource mobilization through the financial sector is relatively weak.
2.        The poor past performance in resource mobilization is attributable
to: (a) the reluctance of previous governments to adjust interest rates in
response to changes in expected inflation. Until recently, the authorities
maintained interest rates at levels below inflation, thus inducing investors
to choose more attractive savings alternatives (foreign financial assets or
unregulated extra-bank deposits) over deposits within the Ecuadorian
financial system; and (b) lines of credit from the Central Bank to the
banking system provided at rates lower than inflation rates determined the
shape of growth of the banking system. Profits were made from the Central
Bank rather than by taking in deposits. This policy was exacerbated by the
Monetary Board setting spreads and reserve requirements that resulted in
inadequate returns to bank equity. As a direct consequence, the private
banking system evolved into one with a relatively large number of small banks
with few branch offices per bank. The banking infrastructure was not
oriented to attracting local savings but to lending based on profitable
Central Bank funds.
3.        Although BNF developed an appropriate branch infrastructure, it was
mainly designed to facilitate lending operations in agricultural activities;
however, its saving mobilization capabilities vis-a-vis its extensive branch
system was never tapped. Currently, savings as a percentage of annual
lending is about 12%. Moreover, previous Central Bank policies induced
farmers to develop a preference to invest their savings in real assets over
financial assets diverting agriculture-generated savings into urban-based
investmenzs or consumption.
4.        The current situation of difficult access to foreign capital
markets and declining petroleum revenues, from which Ecuador gets its main
source of foreign earnings, has induced the current administration to change
significantly its monetary, fiscal and banking policies.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
5.        To spur domestic resource mobilization at the end of 1984, the new
Government revised official interest rates and introduced large denomination
certificates of deposiL fover Sf 1.0 million) bearing unregulated interest
rates. This brought official deposits rate to about 20-23% p.a. and
corresponding effective rates to 25% p.a. for loans up to two years and z7%
p.a. for loans over two years. Certificate of deposits (CD) rates are about
25% p.a. on 12-month deposits; funds mobilized through such CDs are on-lent
for a similar term at about 29% p.a. These measures brought official lending
rates to over the level of inflation. Moreover, in late August 1985 the
Government issued new legislation to allow long-term financial instruments to
carry variable interest rates to be adjusted at frequencies determined by the
Monetary Board. Finally, in August 1986, the Monetary Board ceased fixing
saving and lending rates (with the exception of Lines of Credit from the CB).
6.        In this context the project would assist BNF in its deposit
mobilization effort through improving services to engage savers and borrowers
in the rural areas by financing the growth, rehabilitation and equipment of
its branch network. Technical assistance to define and implement the rural
saving mobilization efforts would also be provided to assist BNF.
In order to measure the adequacy of domestic resource mobilization in terms
of interest rates, after July 1, 1987 the Bank would monitor semi-annually
changes in the average real M2 in the economy as agreed under the Industrial
Finance Project (Ln. 2672-EC).
Implementation Program
7.        During the project implementation period, BNF would carry out a
program to increase its savings mobilization efforts. BNF would:
(a)   open eight new branches with facilities for lending and saving
services. BNF would inform the Bank of the exact location of the
new branches before September 1986;
(b)   train personnel, rehabilitate and equip 42 existing branches to
improve their physical facilities, reduce processing and
administrative costs and facilitate lending and savings
operations. To avoid competition with private banks' savings
efforts, these would operite in rural areas where private banks do
not have branches. Private banks have field offices mainly in
urban centers mostly concentrated in the two largest cities of the
country, Quito and Guayaquil; thus, it is expected that competition
to tap rural savings would not arise. BNF has elaborated a
detailed plan of the location for the selected 42 branch offices;
(c)   procure 15 mobile units, which would include banking equipment.
These units would operate in areas where the construction of new
branches could not be economically justified and the distances are
long and customers scattered.
(d)   monitor closely the progress achieved in the context of increasing
the percentage of BNF's annual lending based on savings, and
progress achieved vis-a-vis interest rate increases and services
provided to customers;



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(e)   dEtermire whether a second tier rediscount facility could be set up
to attract private banks to lend for agricultural investment.
(f)   Consultant services would be provided under the project to assist
BNF in the preparation and implementation of this plan. An expert
with qualifications and terms of employment acceptable to the Bank
would be contracted prior to March 1, 1987; the expert would
present to BNF and the Bank a detailed implementation program two
months after being contracted. For this purpose, eight man-months
of consultant services would be conttracted with an estimated total
costs of USS70,000. The average man-month cost is based on the
expert's fees, international travel and local allowances.
8.        Total resources required to Implement the saving mobilization and
lending program are detailed in Table I of this Annex.
Terms of Reference for the Consultant for the Saving Mobilization Plan
9.        The consultant services should aim at a medium-term implemention
plan for the development of BNF's savings mobilization activities. The main
objective would be to elaborate a plan with the following characteristics, to
be expanded by the consultant:
(a)   analysis of potential saving capt.city per operating branch office
according to: (i) categorization of potential clientele;
(it) present resources of BNF including resources available under
the project; and (iII) influence of economic policy alternatives as
dictated by the Government;
(b)   definition of an appropriate training program at the field level to
increase savings at BNF in rural areas;
(c)   design and implementation of short and long term policy action to
attract savings by means other than positive lending rates,
including the introduction of CD's for rural areas on a pilot basis
to test rural saver's willingness to use this mechanism;
(d)   develop a monitoring system that would permit BNF to determine
progress of the program and ways to correct defects during the
Implementation period based on rapid information conveyed to the
decision making level of BNF.
(e)   preparation of an implementation schedule for the recommended plan
with an estimate of benefits and costs per unit of attracted funds.
Consultent services estimated at eight man/months would include two stages:
(a) diagnosis and elaboration of the plan; and (b) implementation.



JIftlClTK CoEwl it
Table 1, SlJtI IIh 1tZATIO
%t,lld Cost 1a1b
mu cOts                                    DM costs ih I
OUantIt                                         Ihctu, 31fli)                                  WI0 0*)
......bthitcut
ait   1    2   3    4  5    4     7     Total  5ut   '000)  1    2    3   4   5   4     7 lotal      1      2      3      4      5     h ?   Tol
Zs,& Zs   *Im az USum M=su%1m    s"a tsius, clflst"sumses sass: 11ass ssma *411a1 msass   mux as=0 sassa- agasss 5  u= =sZ3            =ax MaZMas
I. IRS1IENO COSTS
A. EM FIELD OFFIMS /a
OFFICE EUIPEIT                  Mc      2    2   2    2   -    -   -     8     6.665.129  13.3 13.3 13.3 1.          -    -   .3   0l1.0   101.0  lOt. OlOt.0   -   -    -   03.9
FIMMTIE                         M.      2    2   2    2   -    -   -     8     2.402.756  4*.   4,0   4.0 4,0   -    -   - 16u0     30.3   30.3    30.3 30.3    -   -    -
41L MUf                        lb.      5   6    4    -   -    -   -    15     4.7196.MS  23.6   .3 SI19    -    -       - ?70s    178,e   214.5  143.0    -                  63-  -  56
Su*-Tct"   MflM pj O     /j I                                                               40.9 45.7 36.2 17,3   -    -   - 140.1   310.1  36.9    274.4113     -    -   -I10U3
8. JTWATIZATtOM lb
N    m  IC                       lb    16   10  1s    -     -  -   -    52     tM1,417    2599 29.1 29.t      -    -  -  -    .2   142     220.1  220.7         -   -    -  U637.
SW0E                             sb     I   -      -    -   -    -   -   1     6743.05     6.7    -    -   -   -    -   -      ,      .1      -                               1.1
u.P.S                            No    10   20  10    0   2    -   -    5         PA.N     0.7  1.3   0.7 0.5 0,1        -   3.4     5,1    10.2    5.   4*.1  1.0      2- 2.5 5
IOI                              b      4   4    4    4   -      -   -  16        67.434  043    M0   43 043    -      -    1.1      2.0    2.0     2,0  2*0    -     -    -  0.2
PC.TMINII                        go  0e5 0.5     -    -       -          1     6-743.404   3.4  3.4    .      .   -          6.7    25.5    25.5      -         -  -   -     56.3
gm 3To101iISLmTS      /d        lb      -      -   -    -   -    -   -                     3.1  3.1   3.1   -    .   -   -   9.4    234     23,l   23      -    -   -    -   71.5
Sub-Ttel IT   IATIM    b                                                                     40.1 37.3 W2     0.8 0.1   -   - 111.5    0.0   212.3   253.7  6.1  10        -   9."
C. ADTATIU O 9SN3 FILD OF.
EShIfIINl                        lb     I    6   4    -     -    -   -  2      9v36a359   7449 74.9 37.5    -   -       -  - 13.3    7.5  5675    28.      -               1-4011.
FUITU                            lb     8   a    4    -   -      -   -         2 b 5.4t4 21.22.2 104        -   -      -   53      110.9  10.9     3.5     -    -   -    -  402.3
nivWIIj Sb E                                 .-  -.-     -    -          - -376 37.6 37.6                   -   -    -   - 112.9   215.1   2SJI   21S.1    -    -   -    -   15.2
.h-Tolel O  TATIOI OF P  T51  FIEU WFF.                                                    133.8 133.8 I5.7   -   -    -   - 35313  11013.5 113    6.3             -      - 2   .
totai tmm"h    CoS                                                                            214.8 216.7 155.1 18.1 0.1  -    - 0,9   1.6A4 1641.7 14175.3 137V5 1.0     -   - 442.9
24=s- ----- ---- Iss 533 Iszc amamiam    229"am 1*8mm  122-1113 ammmm      m sum Aeumso;
atal                                                                                          214.8 21.7 1i55.1 11 S01    -     6049 t#W04 1U,617 1.175.3 137.5 10      -    - 4.92*9
manm sum= *ass as.    3U us  M  u .      SuM*Ma omass  musig= massm     muss muss toamas
a    nof  bFa b ottie,
b 4 Iarth offi     Ur ? wt timn
e 52 PFtsol C_naters
d Sax aths
uls 14. I9a 18:35



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening
1.        During the past five years BNF management has been increasingly
keen on strengthening its overall operational capability to meet more
effectively its objectives and to play a more decisive role in the country's
agricultural development.
2.        These efforts have been, to a large extent, in response to serious
concerns in the sector that BNF's capacity was inadequate and antiquated to
assist the growing demands for credit services.
3.        Staff training, improvement of physical facilities, introduction of
a computerized data processing system, review of internal policies and
procedures, improvement of security measures and renovation of the fleet of
vehicles are the main areas where improvement is underway. Part of these
efforts have been implemented under a UNDP/FAO agreement and a recently
completed IDB project and will continue during the next four years under a
follow-up loan approved by IDB's board in December 1985. The Bank's
participation under the proposed project would complement these efforts.
Strengthening: Phase I
4.        On October 16, 1980, the Government of Ecuador, UNDP, FAO and BNF
signed a technical assistance agreement to improve BNF's operational
structure and administrative procedures. The agreement (PNUD/80/001/R/12)
was to last three years and included objectives in the areas of loan
appraisal and supervision, financial planning and administration, loan
programming and organization, and training and management of human
resources. On June 7, 1984, the agreement was extended until June 30, 1986,
and new activities were included, such as design and establishment of a
management information system and installation of a computer network to link
headquarters with regional branches.
5.        So far BNF's performance in implementing its strengthening program
has been excellent. The success obtained has been the result of:
(a) Improving the environment for its staff by introducing new personnel
policies that provide job security, expanded incentives and benefits and
clearly defined career opportunities; (b) reinforcing its
inter-institutional relationship with MAG, INIAP and other entities that have
key roles in the sector; and (c) introducing automation on several of its
banking procedures to obtain more efficiency and provide better banking
services.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
6.        More specifically the achievements were as follows:
a. Loan Appraisal and Supervision
(i)  establishment of training courses for loan officers and
supervisors at headquarters and branch offlces;
(ii)  streamlining of appraisal procedures to shorten loan
processing;
(iii)  introduction of standardized loan requirements throughout
all branches; and
(iv)  establishment of loan committees at each branch to speed
up loan approval and disbursement.
b. Financial PlannLng and Administration
(i)  introduction of annual financial programming a-d budgeting
originating at each branch (bottom-up approach);
(ii)  Incorporation of financial data into the management
information system;
(iii)  evaluation of accounting procedures and proposal of a new
computerized system; and
(iv)  preparation at each branch of a daily consolidated balance
sheet by major headings.
c. Loan Programming
(i)  strengthening of coordination with MAG to forecast and
determine annual demand for agricultural credit;
(it)  strengthening the role of branch offices in the process of
loan programming; and
(iii)  review of procedures to establish a programming system for
BNF's credit lines.
d. Human Resources
(i)  evaluation of BNF's human resource in regard to technical
expertise available, staffing requirements, policies and
procedures;
(ii)  conducting of a comprehensive survey to determine training
requirements; and
(iii)  design of annual training programs for headquarters and
branch offices staff.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
Stregthening: Phase II
7.        BNF would proceed with Phase II of the program parallel to the
ongoing activities of Phase I which are to be completed ia June 1986. The
main objective would be to concentrate on the implementation of systems and
programs recommended under Phase I to strengthen its accounting and financial
administration, and to implement its staff training program.
8.        More specifically under Phase II. IDB's loan would contribute to:
(a) establish a Data Processing Center at headquarters (Quito), at
the main branch (Gusyaquil) and at two regional branches
(Portoviejo, Babahoyo);
(b) design and introduce a computer-based accounting system which
will link headquarters with regional branches;
(c) prepare technical specifications and procurement of data
processing and computer equipment;
(d) design and introduce nationwide quarterly progress reports of
financial and operational indicators;
(e) design and introduce security procedures in at least 25% of
BNF's branches;
(f) design a credit delivery system for cooperatives and farmer
associations irterested in marketing agricultural products and
inputs;
(g) introduce a computer program to record and analyze information
required for monitoring and evaluation of subloans granted
under projects financed by international financial organiza-
tions, such and IDB and IBRD; and,
(h) prepare and propose an improved agricultural credit manual;
Institutional Strengthening Under the Project
9.        The proposed loan as part of Phase II would provide financing to
strengthen the operational capacity of BNF and PB. Emphasis would be placed
on staff training particularly for technicians assigned to branches and
agencies. In addition, logistical support would be provided by replacing
about 62% of BNF's current fleet of old vehicles used for field work.
Security would be upgraded in several branches and armored trucks would be
acquired to protect the transportation of monies and documents between
branches.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
Staff Training Program for BAF
10.       The program proposes a strengthening of the present staff
capabilities of BNF at the national level including the participation of PB'S
staff. To accomplish this purpose, 8NF has designed a comprehensive training
program for the period 1986-1989.
11.       The program would consist of:  (a) in-house training courses and
seminars; (b) external training for which scholarships would be provided to
attend courses of short duration (three months) in other countries;
(c) supervised correspondence training, called Sistema Nacional de
Capacitacion Bancaria a Distancia (SINCABAD);   and (d) publicatiot of
technical bulletins and working papers and production of videotapes.
12.       Subject matter of trainaing would include:  (a) Agricultural Credit:
appraisal, supervision, and recuperation; (b) Financing: programming,
accounting, budgeting, auditing and banking services; (c) Management and
Information Systems; (d) Inventory Control; and (e) Public Relations.
13.       The Department of Human Resources would be responsible for
organizing and implementing the program. BNF would continue to rely on its
most experienced and senior staff to serve as teachers and trainers. Staff
receiving training abroad would be expected on their return to take active
part in the design and teaching of courses. Local conaultant trainers would
be hired when needed to supplement BNF's in-house capacity.
14.       In-Office Staff Training.  This type of training, called
Capacitacion Directa (CP) would consist of courses and seminars (3 to 5 days
duration) held either at headquarters or at branch offices. About 20 courses
per year would take place during the first four years of the project. Total
cost would include local travel and accommodations for instructors and
participants and purchase of material supplies and equipment.   Although about
3,000 participants would benefit, funds would be required only for those
travelling to training locations (about 1,950 staff).
15.       External Training.  About 20 scholarships would be made available
for training in foreign financial institutions In agricultural credit, loan
administration, appraisal and supervision of projects, financial analysis and
auditing. Qualified candidates would be selected by BNFts Training
Committee. Courses would last for about three months. To benefit from this
training, each participant would sign a contract agreeing to continue working
for BNF for at least two years after the completion of the course and, if
required, participate as trainer in the in-house training program. At the
end of each course, participants would submit to BNF and the Bank a short
report and grade obtained.
16.       Suiervised Correspondence Courses.   To reduce staff time and
mobilization costs incurred by its training program, BNF would introduce by
mid-1986 supervised correspondence courses (SINCABAD). The methodology for
this type of training, introduced successfully in other countries, was
prepared for BNF by an FAO consultant financed under an IDB loan.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
17.       Course material packages for each subject are currently under
preparation and would include reading assignments and examinations. While
the methodology is similar to conventional correspondence courses SfNCABAD
provides periodic supervised visits by BNF trainers to individual
participants. The object is to provide support, answer questions, and
reinforce the participants' training efforts thus reducing the drop out rate
characteristic of correspondence courses.
18.       About 20 courses would be offered to about 5,300 participants
during project implementation. The project would finance travelling expenses
of trainers and educational supplies for a total of S/ 35,845,000
(US$358,450).
19.       Training for Beneficiaries.  In cooperation with INIAP and MAG, BNF
would sponsor for its beneficiaries about 48 training events such as field
days for demonstration of improved agricultural practices. Preference would
be given to farmers' groups such as cooperatives and associations. About 600
beneficiaries per year or 2,400 by the end of Year 4 would benefit. Field
days would be scheduled to coincide with key events during the year such as
harvesting crops and cattle auctions.
20.       Total cost for four years wouid be around SI 2,736,000 (USS27,360)
and would include transportation and refreshments for the participants and
travel and subsistence expenses for BNF staff.
21.       Summary of Training Program.  During appraisal a review was made of
the approach BNF would use in each type of training described in the previous
paragraphs. They were found appropriate and practical to attain for the
proposed training purpose.
Vehicles for Loan Appraisal end Supervision
22.       One of the major constraints on the institution is the obsolescence
of its fleet of vehicles, most of which have been in use for more than six
years. Moreover, the number of its clients, hence the demand for its
services, has risen sharply (abaut 70,000 loans granted per year), but the
staff appraising and supervising loans lack adequate transport.
23.       BNF owns a fleet of 479 vehicles, of which about 69 are allocated
to headquarters' staff (in Quito and Guayaquil); the other 410 are
distributed nationwide throughout the bank's 74 branches and agencies. The
latter, assigned to 420 supervisors responsible for appraisal and supervision
of loans, are, as a rule, jeep-type vehicles with a small four-cylinder
engine and four-wheel drive.
24.       The normal life of vehicles assigned to field branches is about
four years. However, this is reduced to about three years at branch offices
located in the coastal areas where salt in the air and water accelerate
corrosion.



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
25.       Lack of funding has prevented BNF from establishing a vehicle
replacement program. Thus, out of its fleet of 479, 327 are older than six
years; 141 are four to five years old; and 10 are three years old.   In regard
to mechanical conditions, about 230 are in very poor conditions and
untrustworthy, including 30 which are unoperable and will not be fixed
because the cost of repairing them would be greater than the salvage value.
About 210 are in fair to poor condition and are constantly in and out of the
repair shop, while 38 are fairly good.
26.       To correct the situation BNF will replace 405 vehicles over the
next four years. Under a recently approved IDB loan it will purchase 105,
and under the proposed Bank loan it would acquire a total of 300. Bank/IDA
International competitive bidding procedurea would be observed.
Security Protection
27.       Safekeeping of monies and documents at any one of BNF's branches,
including headquarters, is limited to the provision of fire-proof safe rooms
and posting one or two guards outside the main entrance. Burglar alarms or
any other type of security protection are nonexistent. While BNF has never
been held up or robbed, incidents of this type are increasing at an alarming
rate throughout Ecuador. As a result, most coamercial banks have installed
security systems, many of which are linked to police headquarters. Ithe
feeling among BNF officials is that since most other banks are establishing
security measures, it is just a matter of time before the underworld realizes
how easy it would be to burglarize any one of BNF's branches.
28.       Currency and valuable documents a-e transported by BNP staff in
suitcases using taxis or local buses. For large sums of money BNF has
contracts with 11 individuals responsible for transporting monies and docu-
ments among branches. These contracts in (1984) amounted to S/ 15,116,885
(US$151,116) annually for a service that covers only 65% of all the branches
and is limited to one pick-up and delivery per week.
29.       A study done last year by BNF to determine the efficiency of the
service revealed many inefficiencies including delivery delays of up to 60
days and shipments that arrive after working hours. Moreover, vehicles used
by contractors are old and without any security protection. It is not
uncommon for branches or agencies, especially the smaller and more distant,
to run out of money or to have excess amounts of money that should have been
transferred to another branch. This causes many inconveniences to BNF's
clients and affects the Bank's capacity to provide efficient and timely
bunking services.
30.       To solve this situation the study proposed the establishment of a
new system (Sistema de Distribucion y Transporte de Remesas de Cheques,
Dinero Efectivo y Documentos) that: 'a) groups branches according to
geographical proximity to each other and to designated regional offices;
(b) determines the most efficient delivery routes and pick-up schedules; and
(c) outlines procedures for each branch to monitor departure and arrival of
shipments. To complement these measures, the proposed loan would finance the
purchase of 15 armored vehicles to provide security during transportation of
currency and the installation of anti-theft devices in at least 25 branches.



40P1 eooz Voq .ioj p
E19c-  - C40 11&n 2r=4r el  919Rc E£6u -  - Zf iCt $,St. 6ElM   jK                                                      1
V65   -  rIk Vatit Mall zl0Sa1 9196zdt V6Z -  -ZtIt 811t E19t Vit ci0C                                       siU3 IM3IS30II t'mWI
-------- - G -~ ----- --9;---6                  '   ~~ZU0~SUU                                                       t1~
-  -  - O41  0&a  0'a  0o&  $11 -  -  -  6C4 61Z 61 61                                               mm W CCCC  l  INNIU lewlOq
0110ll oll                 OIL   01   LIE -  -     610 610 610 60  WU 91i9I                       CT   sv" 51t3inhllYIS3W2IXAM3
CUt     .  . Cog V9    Cl0  610   £Z   -       010 61 91  1O  SUM6    lzi           09    m  9    "^mlS      siNIWI 331MS-tU
-           -   I!I   'J9E      1 -  -  -  - Mll   P61 II W9L1t't -  -  -  -         01 SRI'  S                   MIdMIS/fl31
Z'W1        1911  C'   C1w  SIM  oi*C   - --1$ -~ -1 foll SI*  IWt1    la0- -       - 4  -1 -1 01 ST  ON~II  '( 314  S 33AI0-3I
*Ufr             8110 -      91 --    -  -      -  901-  60109'C  9 C-  --    --     St -      0* N          WOm11
CULY'C -  -  -  9,616 ?,616 1P600 slow -  -  -  -  P'It rIZ I 'M9 LIN'S19'I  of00 --1   1z Si  ONSJ13W
0Nhid1103 1w S313IHA IV
Siss wii M1L3f * 
2= ZS   -=  %mSt  2 1SMC S Se--a   2-ssZZ S2   2e  .31noSamu  -a=c lNumm 33mummE 2=   av   z c  2 ax
1tOi  9 10      1    1    I   ht"oLS   910£I              Wff,''3X1iE1#kl  9   co       I  I   PUR4
0 Ut SIMS a"                    SIM
NINXUI2UL TeIjIj9IMJ It .yqa
It L14U2 WIMIWi[



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Illustrative Investment Plans Financial and Economic Justification
Farm Models
1.        The agricultural credit component would finance on-farm development
investments and marketing activities at the inltial stages of the marketing
phase (such as small storage installations, packaging, transportation and
refrigeration equipment). Farms receiving credit would grow conmercial
crops, such as rice, corn, beans, soybeans, fruits, milk, beef, and poultry.
2.        To estimate the financial coats and benefits, six farm models and
budgets were selected, chosen to represent typical farm sizes and farming
systems found in the three regions of Ecuador: Coast, Sierra and Oriente.
On-farm investments were based on data collected at farm level on actual
investments financed by BNF during 1983-1985 period.
3.        In constructing the models, attention was given to the general
level of management that preseenly exists at various farm sizes. In
determining physical parameters, account was taken of current farming
practices and availability of Inputs. The crop and livestock yields and
production coefficients are all within the ranges actually achieved by BNF
subborrowers.  No important innovations are expected to be iatroduced, but
through the implementation of the project, improved farming systems that are
already practiced in the country are intended to be dlsseminated more widely.
4.        However, the projected mix of enterprises selected would encounter
changes because farmers would modify their choice of Investments over the
disbursement period (seven years) in keeping with relative price and market
changes of the comodities to be produced.   In thls regard, due to the
significant changes in policies involving the sector, coomiodities with a
comparative advantage, such as rice, hard corn, soybeans, and fruits, would
intensify the use of credit resources.   On-farm investment financed under
the project would not be limited to specific crops, livestock regions or size
of farm enterprises. It is expected that market signals would reorient
credit investments in response to the new set of economic policies under
implementation. As a result, no aggregated economic rate of return has been
computed. However, the six Illustrative models provide estimates of average
returns that could be expected under the limpleh'entation of Investment credit.
5.        Specific details of farm models are available in the project file.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Financial and Economic Justlfication
6.        The financial and economic rates of return for each investment plan
are adequate as is shown below:
Financial         Economic
Investment Plan     Region    ha   Rate of Return 2  Rate of Return %
Budget I   Crop-Livestockl/    Sierra    10          37                41
Budget 2   Dairy               Sierra    .1          28                31
Budget 3   Crop-Livestock      Sierra   iOO          29                31
Budget 4   Crop/ -Livestock    Cbast     20          30                34
Budget 5   Crop-Double Purpose  Cbast   200          33                34
Budget 6   Crop-Livestock      Oriente   50          37                38
1/ Swine, poultry, guinea pigs, and cattle.
2/ Main activity.
7.        Financial rates of return were derived using market prices for both
inputs and products including labor. The cash flow analyses indicate that
subborrowers under the project should have no difficulty complying with the
terms and conditions to be established by BNF for its lending (Tables 1-6,
this Annex). For small-scale farmers BNF should be careful to ensure that
investments are placed to fall within the cash generation capacity of these
farms especially in the first two years.
8.        Outputs, with the exception of beans, potatoes, and milk, were
considered tradeable commodities, and efficiency prices were derived from
their FOB or CIF values adjusted for taxes, transportation, and, when
applicable, processing and intermediary costs. Farm-gate prices were used
and adjusted in line with expected changes in real value over the life of the
project, according to the tank's international price forecasts. Production
costs, except for unskilled labor, were priced at local market rates on the
grounds that they best reflect their respective opportunity costs. The
opportunity cost of family labor was estimated at 752 of the equivalent
market wage for unskilled labor; unskilled hired work was estimated at 70% of
its market wage.



ECUAboH
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 11 PROJECT
______________________________
MODEL 1$lOha SIERRA,FARM FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
-------------------------------------------
(S/. 000)
0       1       2        3       4       5       6       7       8       9       19
INFLOW
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCTION       435     487     859     878     944     989     1113    1238    1253    1257    1259
OUTFLOV
INVESTMENTS                        -     698     219     166       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
OPERATING COSTS                  270     379     413     451     457     486     486      486     486     486     486
TOTAL COSTS                      270    1077     632     61,     457     486      486     486     486     486     486
NET BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC*
___________________________
TOTAL                            165    -590     227     261     487     503     627      752     767     771     773
INCREMENTAL                        -    -755      62      96     322     338     462      587     602     606     608
FINANC ING
LOAN RECEIPTS
_____________
LONG TERM                          -     628     197     149       -       -        -       -       -       -
SHORT TERM                         -     109      34      38       6      29       -        -       -       -
LOAN PAYEMENTS
LONG TERM                          -       -     132     173     205     278     279      279     279     278
SHORT TERN                         -     132      41      46       7      35       -        -       -       -
NET FINANCING                      -     605      58     -32    -206    -284    -271    -27e     -279    -278       -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANC,
__________________________
TOTAL                            165      15     285     229     281     219     349     475      489     474     773
FAMILY LABOR INCOME              151     168     219     220     223     226     235     235      235     235     235
ON FARM CONSUMP.                  39      44      77      79      e5      89     100     111      113     113     113
CASH FLOW                       277      139     427     370     419     356     484     59"     611      615     895
------h1--18----4----------6 EtijW76f8-B              36.64Z NgW -Stt- ------------------------------------------------



ECUADnR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT It PROJECT
---__-------------------------
"DUEL 240ha DAIRY FARNSIERRAPFARM FINAKIAL AIALYSIS
-----------------_---------- -- -----------------------
(SI. 000)
0       1       2        3       4       5       6        7       8       9      i9
INFLOW
GROSS IALE OF MOUC.            B76     940    1265     1435    1791    2240    2724    3150     3185    3220    3220
OUTFLOW
INVESTMENTS                       -    1571     431     185        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
OPERATING COTS                  313     776     798     835      884     970     970     960      960     960     960
--- ----- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---__ _____
TOTAL COSTS                     313    2347    1229    1020      884     97i     970     960     960      960     960
MET BENEFITS BEFO     FINAIC.
TOTAL                           563   -1407      36      415     97     1270    1754    2190    2225     2260    2260
IPICREITAL                        -   -1970    -527    -148      344     707    1191    1627    1662     1697    1697
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                         -    1414     388     167        -       -       -       -       -        -       -
SHORT TERN                              463      22      37       49      86       -       -       -        -       -
LOAN PAYEINTS
LONG TERN                                         -       -        -     933     933     933     933      933
SHORT TERN                        -       -     560      27       45      59     104       -       -        -       -
NET FINANCING                     -    1877    -150     177        4    -907   -1037    -933    -933     -933       -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANC.
--------------------------
TOTAL                           563     470    -114     592      911     364     717    1257    1292     1326    2260
FAMILY LABOR INCOME             151     168     219     220      223     226     235     235     235      235     235
ON FARM CONSUMP.                 44      47      63      72       90     112     136     158     159      161     161
CASH FLOW                       670     591      41     740     1045     478     815    1335     1367    1400    2334
ffarch 21o 1986  18:46    Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
lurch  1, 198  18:46 NIll                   27.81Z



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PRCJECT
MOKIEL 3;100ha CROP-LIVESTOCK FARM,SIERRApFARM FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(S/4 000)
0        1        2        3        4       5        6        7      8-?       19
INFLOW
GROSS Q4LUE OF PRODUCT.         6700     7486     9016     9203    10351    10586   10617    10641    10859    10859
OUTFLOW
INVESTMENTS                         -     5541     1539      550        -        -        -        -       -        -
OPERATING COSTS                  3565     4196     5662     4707     4647     4647    4647     4647     4647     4647
TOTAL COSTS                      3565     9737     7201     5257     4647     4647    4647     4647     4647     4647
NET BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC,
TOTAL                            3135    -2251     1815     3946     5704    5939     5970     5994     6212     6212
INCREIIENTAL                        -    -5386    -1320      a11     2569    2804     2835     2859     3077     3077
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERN                           -     4987     1385      495        -                 -
SHORT TERM                          -      631     1466        -        -        -        -        -
LOAN PAYENENTS
LONG TERM                            -       -     1047     1338     1442    I158      1758    £758     t75g        -
SHORT TERM                          -      764     1774        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
NET FINANCING                        -    4854       30     -843    -1442   -1758    -1758    -1758    -1758        -
NET SENEFITS AFTER FINANC.
TOTAL                            3135     2603     1845     3103     4262    4181     4212     4236     4453     6212
FAMILY LABOR INCOME               240'     241      241      241      241      241     241      241      241      241
ON FARM CONSUMP6                  201      225      270      276      311      318     319      319      326      326
CASH FLOW                        3174     2620     1816     3068     4193    4104     4134     4158     4368     6127
------c   ------21----19---6--------4------_------------Rat--e-----of__        --------__ ---of-----------------------
Marc   2to198   t8:7 ITternal Rates of Return of IN¢t Streams
Harch 22 1w6  1:47  -WTI                   9R.44V



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
______________________________
MODEL 4120ha CROP FARM.COASTvFARM FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
----------------------------------------------------
(SJ. 000)
-------------------------------------------------_------------__-------------__---------------_-----------------------
0       1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8       9      19
-------_----------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------_.--____-_____--_--___-__----___
INFtOV
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.        879     998     1153    1241    1342    1639    1856    1952    2031    2031    2031
OUTFLOU
INWESTMENTS                      -     676      419     154       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
OPERATING COSTS                567      811     746     81a     862     870     979     901     918     918     918
TOTAL COSTS                    567     1487    1165     974     862     870     879     VO0     9t8     918     919
NET BENEFITS KEFORE FINANC.
---------------------------
TOTAL                          312     -489     -12     267     480     769     977    1051    1113    1113    1113
INCREMENTAL                      -    -801     -324     -45     168     457     665     739     801     801     801
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
------------
LONG TERN                        -     608     377      140       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
SNORT TERM                       -      244       -      72      44       8       9      22      17       -       -
LOAN PAYEENTS                                                                                                              LI
LONG TERM                        -        -     128     207     236     321     321     321     321     321       -
SHORt TERM                       -     295       -       87      53      10      11      27      21       -       -
NET FINANCING                    -     557      249     -82    -246    -323    -323    -326    -325    -321       -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANC.
__________________________
TOTAL                          312      68      237     18S     234     446     654     725     788     792    1113
FAMILY LABOR INCOME            280     259     241      241     241     241     241     241     241     241     241
ON FARM CONSUMP.                26      30       35      37      40      49      56      59      61      61      61
CASH FLOU                      5i6     297     444     389      435     638     839     908     969     972    1293
March 21r 1986  18:48      Ioternal Rates of Return of Yet Str,eams
Nll            30.37%



45 -
ANNE 4
Table 5
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
______________________________
MOt'EL 5;20ha CROP-LIVESTOCK FARMtCOAST REGION.FARM FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(S/. 000)
0       1       2        3       4       5     6-9      19
uROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.        6077    8004    8277    8685     9087    9769   10120   10120
OUTFLOW
INtVESTMiENTS                     -    5969    1911     220        -       -       -       -
OPERATING COSTS                5156    5935    6006     6183    628?    6239    6239    623q
TOTAL COSTS                    5156   11904    7917    6403     6289    6239    6239    6239
NET BENEFITS BEFORE FINANC.
TOTAL                           921   -3900     360    2282     2798    3530    3881    3881
INCREMENTAL                       -   -4821    -561    1361     1877    2609    2960    2960
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
_____________
LONG TERM                         -    5372    1720      198       -
SHORT TERM                        -     779      71      177     106       -       -
LOAN PAYENENTS
LONG TERM                         -       -    1128     1489    1531    2078    2078
SHORT TERM                        -     943      86      214     128       -       -
NET FINANCING                     -    5209     577   -1328    -1553   -2078   -2078       -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANC.
TOTAL                           921    1309     937      954    1245    1452    1803    3881
March 21. 1986 18:48
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Nll                32.87X



-46 -
46~~~~~
AM= 4
Table6
ECUAO
AGRICULTWtAL CR   T II PROJECT
MODEL 615Oha CROF'-LIVETOC1 FARM#ANAZQ1 RESIOM.FARN FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(S/. 000)
0       1       2       3       4       5       6     7-9      19
INFLOW
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.        337     506     742     802      082     911    13?3    1363    1363
TFLOW
INVESThENTS                      -     200     289       -        -               -       -       -
OPERATING COSTS                275     648     65      667      669     733     683     684     684
- -- ------- ------
TOTAL COSTS                    275     848      5      67       669     733     683     64      684
NET KENEFITS KFORE FINANC.
TOTAL                           62    -342    -212      135     213     178     710     679     679
INCREMENTAL                      -    -404    -274      73      151     116     648     617     617
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPS
LONG TERn                        -      t80    260        -       -       -       -       -       -
SHORT TERN                       -     373       17       2       2      64       -       -       -
LOAN PAYEMENTS
LONG TERN                        -        -      38      92      92     125     125     125       -
SHORT TERN                       -     451       21       2       2      77       -       -       -
NET FINANCING                    -      102     219     -93     -93    -139    -125    -125       -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANC.
TOTAL                           62    -240       7       42     120      39     5       554     679
FAMILY LABOR INCOME            280     259      241     241     241     241     241     241     241
ON FARNCGNSUP.                  to       IS      22      24      26      27      42      41      41
CASH FLOW                      332       3      225     259     335     253     784     754     879
March 21, 1986 18:49
Internal Rates of Return of Not Streams
NIl                     37.022



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II PROJECT
Subsidlary Loan Agreement
General
1.        The Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be signed between the BCE and
partlcipating banks including BNF would be the instrument that would specify
project implementation details and related legal conditionality in effect in
Ecuador plus agreements reached between the Borrower and the Bank as
stipulated in the Loan and Project Agreement.
2.        Among other things, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would include the
following details:
(a) Legal and financial criteria to allow the participation of
private banks according to local regulations. One financial
criteria for PB participation would be that the debt equity
ratio would be at least 20 to 1.
(b)  Project Implementation: (i) rediscounting percentages;
(it) spreads; (lit) treatment of the foreign exchange risk;
(iv) minimum time to request rediscounting to BCE; (vi)
repayment schedules to BCE which would be in line with those
of the sub-borrowers' subloans; (vii) fee to be paid by the
CBE to BNF for services to the PB; and (viii) accounting and
auditing requirements.
(c)  Relationship between PB and BNF: (i) providing loan
Implementation information to BNF semi-annually;
(d)  Subloan procedures: (i) interest rates on subloans;
(it) lending periods; (ill) indication that lendiag rates
would be adjustable and posutive in real terms; (iv) criteria
to approve subloans; (v) maximum amount of accumulated loans
to be received by one beneficiary; (vi) sub'oans that would
require Bank approval; and (vit) explicit indication that
subloans would not be used to refinance farmers' existing
debts; (vill) private technical assistance to farmers carried
out by private consultants could be part of subloans; and
(ix) short-term credit and counterpart funds required to
complement investment plans would be provided by BNF and PB
from their sources of funds.
(e)  Statements concerning procurement, required reporting to the
Bank and mentioning of the importance of the agreements
between the Borrower and the Bank as an Instrument of project
implementation and coordination to achieve the desired
objectives.



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 11
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Sucres Ilillion)                             (US$ Killion)
X Total                                   z total
% Foreian   Sose                          Z Foreisn  Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local Foreign Total Exchanfe     Costs
A. CREDIT
I* ON-FARn INVESTMENT
______ _____ __ __
CIVIL WORKS                       1,251.2 1,202.1   2.453.3         49       20    9.5      9.1  18.6         49
MACHINERY & EQUIPhENT               565.1 2.972.9   3,538.0         84       29    4.3     22.5  26.8         84
BREEDING STOCK                    1,836.6    459.2  2p295.9         20       19   13.9      3.5  17.4         20       1Y
PERENNIALS                          715.3    144.9    860.1          17       7    5.4      1.1   6.5         17        7
PASTURE DEVELOPHENT.                702.2     78.0    780.2         10        6    5.3      0.6   5.9         10        6
Sub-Total O0-FARM INVESThENT         5t07O.3 4.857.1    9,927*4         Ss      82   38.4     36.8  75.2         49       82
2. SHORT TERN   /a
_______ ________
VALUE                               730*6     81,2    811.7         10        7    5.5      0.6   6.1         10        ?
Sub-total SNORT TERN    /a              730.*6   81.2     811,7         10       7    5.5      0.6   6.1         lQ        /
Sub-Total CREDIT                         5#800.9 4,938.2 10w739.1          46      89    43,?    37.4  81.4         46       By
B. INSTITUT.STRENGTKEMING
____*___ .____________
SAVING HODILIZATION                      52.8   552.1     604.9         91       5    0.4      4.2   4.6         91        5
BNF                                      72.9   656.4     729.3        90        6    0.6      S.O   5.5         90        h
Sub-Total INSTITUT.STREN6THEENIN6          125.7 1,208.6   1,334.3         91      11    1It      9.2  10.1        YV        11
Total SASELINE COSTS                       5.926.6 6,146.8 12,073.4          51     100    44.9    46.6  91.5         51      IvU
Phssical Continsenc;es                      6.3    60.4      66.7         91       1     0.0     0.5    0.5        91        1
Price Contin0encies                        18.7   128.4     147,1         87       1     041     1.0    1.1        87        1
lotal PROJECT COSTS                        5,951.6 6p335.6 12.287,3          52     102    45.1    48.0  93.1         52      102
_                  =       =C=5='== ===-
/a  Incremental
-------    ____________  ______________ _6:16  _________-____-___------   ----------------------------------------------------I
Julu 14. 1986   16tlE 



-49 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II
Project Financing Plan
(USS Million)
Type of Investment       World Bank      BNF and PB     Farmers       Total
On-farm investment          38.8            22.4         14.0         75.2
Equipment & vehtcles         8.8             1.0           -           9.8
Furniture                    -               0.6           -           0.6
Consultants                  0.1              _            -           0.1
Foreign Training             0.1              -            -           0.1
Local Training               0.2             0.8           -            1.0
Short term credit           -                6.1                       6.1
TOTAL                     48.0            31.0         14.0         93.0



- so -
ANNEX 6
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II
Disbursemets
Schedule I of Loan Agreement
(in USS Million)
2 of Expenditure
Category              Amount Allocated             to be Financed
A. Project Subloans
Oifarilnvest~ints                39.0                 65% of subloans. 1/
B. Institutional Stregthening
Vehicles-, mobile unts,           7.5                 100% of imported
P.C. computers and office                            expenditures, and
equipment and software.                              80X for local expen-
ditures for imports
processed locally.
Consultants                       0.1                 100%
Foreign training                  0.2                 1002
Local training                    0.2                 20S
Unallocated                       1.0
Total                         48.0
1/ a) Made by BNF: 652 of subloans disbursed;
b) Made by PB: under each subloan disbursed, 75% In the first year, 652
in the second year, and 60% thereafter.



ANNEX 6
TiSle -4
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT II
Estimated Schedule of Dtsbursements
(US$ Million)
Fiscall/                            Disbursement              Cumulative
Year         Semester              During Semester            Disbursements
1987    December 31, 1986
June 30. 1987                    3.7                       3.7
1988    December 31, 1987                3.7                       7.4
June 30, 1988                    4.2                      11.6
1989    December 31, 1988                4.2                      15.8
June 30, 1989                    4.1                      19.9
1990    December 31, 1989                4.1                     24.0
June 30, 1990                    3.0                      27.0
1991    December 31, 1990                3.0                     30.0
June 30, 1991                    3.0                      33.0
1992    December 31, 1991                3.0                     36.0
June 30, 1992                    3.0                      39.0
1993    December 31, 1992                3.0                     42e0
June 30, 1993                    3.0                     45.0
1994    December 31, 1993                3.0                      48.0
The disbursement profile for credit projects tn Latin America indicates a
seven-year period from board approval for disbursements of 96Z of loan
proceeds.



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 11 PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    BNF's Request for an Agricultural Credit (3 volumes)
2.    By-Laws of BNF (Ley Organica del BNF)
3.    Credit Regulations (Reglamento General de Credito)
4.    Credit Procedures Handbook (Manual de Procedimiento de Credito)
5.    Lines of Credit (April 1985)
6.    Internal Regulations for Budget Management
7.    Annual Report 1984
8.    Report on BNF's intitutional improvements 1982-83 (Deloitte Haskings &
Sells)
9.    Audit Report FY1984 (Deloitte Haskings & Sells)
10.   Audit Report PY1983 (Deloitte Haskings & Sells)
11.   Lending Program 1985
12.   Report on enterprises in which BNF participates as shareholder (FY1984)
13.   Statistical Bulletin 1970-84
14.   Potential Credit Demand 1985-88
15.   Human Resources Management Regulations
16.   Management Report on Execution of Lending Program for 1985 (Jan.-Sept.
1985)
17.   Assumptions used for BNF's financial forecast (Appraisal Mission)
18.   Farm models, detailed features



79'                                                   910      0
Sow, korerwa  'S
LinmoneS5, >  _',      C O   L 0   M  B I A
ApSon Froncfs P \,            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssond
ESMERALDAS                                                        00    GALAPAGOS ISLANDS .'
Cornor~aor*s"                <              s    4 3Rnchccf3 sT
A)o~ar,es  Mate U                   lo                   umckaco               Ouzt
ESMERALDAS                        ARCH)               it Th'C IA
'~~Q Ay,,o lo qe)D 1
Muwsrwe i0       Cpe                     /                               1'MOrc
somrto  t<                        ~   4e>>- 
Son Jose  deuniodel                             i 
'i.QChodmone              5ln. 0                            j*
pto~~~~Qw,                                       !)J ~~~~*Logo Agw'io
In"  .         Los 1 t*   ;/                             ,qI Puerto El Carmen
0.                                                                                      0004               de Putumoyo
)AMA                              PICHINCHA        Ib.                                 t 
El C        ~~~santo l%mingo QW)O  Pto  .4"1-                       I   Shushu!,ndt
ElACl  ^ @ Sit°      07_ ft                         'Lo Estovw6n
Son Sebosttan del CowoT  -i
Tamb4°  {  /              Nlo  *K Fcisco de Orel lono 
Monto deleo                                              A
~~~~~~L               S     J    o    'to Itoe/{,_ris/'ttipf
,~~~,LoCo~~eno  los I  -       - w6
Pl pIde   L_ CoA-



N   LaCod~~~na  Morgarda?\, ~~~!am Juan   *
monglealtoI        DA1E~ 
Noba   Sorobcr~
toa                GUAYUI
LIbertad           Chong6n                              Aq 
Salinas  0  Sta  EI~~~~~~aa~r  A ~ECU                                   A DO R
rogreso  ~~~~~I                               AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 11
Ca        ucuo              ~~~PROJECT
M$nclez            ~~~~~~BNF OFFICES:
Headquairters
Regionol Orcanches
Branches
Teiigtiel    uenca ~~~~~~~CAgencies
Tendo         tJ~'Cw~,, drzo~0PRIMARY ROADS!
Girbo                                  -   Paved
MACHALA.-,  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    -'Gravel
Pto Bol,voto  St,/ ISOii                                       SECONDARY ROADS:
Paved
PI ~ ~~paPorts
~~~  \ .  I~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~ ~Rivers
r~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~PHYSICAL REGIONS:
I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Costo
Sierra
Oriente
C,    <CY     ~Too      ~Province Boundaries
2iAMORA~                               -International Boundories
acorn          J,~~~¶-IINCH IPE                       20   a   6    0   10
PE  R U 
M  M. wb ovCwm*b PW Wl  ft" we-Ub* M WA"IU-
j~~~~~~~~~p.W h 8Pd.* 
~~  @,Zumba~~~~~j  ~~~.                            ______WO-



