Document of                        L     COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2494-BB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BARBADOS
FOR A
TOURISM PROJECT
March 27, 1979
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -           Barbados Dollar (BDS$)
US$1      =          BDS$2
BDS$1      =          US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =           39.37 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km) 2         =             .62 miles
I square meter (I )        -           10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )    2    =           35.3 cubic feet
I square kilometer (km )   =            0.39 square miles
I hectare (ha)             =            2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
Apartel      - Apartment Hotel
BDB          -  Barbados Development Bank
BIDC         -  Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
CARICOM      -  Caribbean Common Market
CDB          -  Caribbean Development Bank
CDF          -  Caribbean Development Facility
CIDA         -  Canadian International Development Agency
Corporation  -  Barbados Tourism Investment Corporation
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDC          -  Industrial Development Corporation
Ministry of
Tourism    -  Ministry of Caribbean Affairs, External Trade,
Industry, Aviation and Tourism
OAS          -  Organization of American States
VMC          -  Village Management Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
TOURISM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Barbados
Beneficiary:          The Barbados Tourism Investment Corporation (for all
project components except the bypass road to
Speightstown).
Amount:               US$8.0 million
Terms:                Payable in 15 years, including three years of
grace at 7% per annum.
Relending Terms:       12 years, including 3 years grace, at 10% per annum.
The Government would bear the risk on foreign exchange.
Project
Description:
The concept of the project is to build a cluster of small hotels and
apartment hotels (apartels), lease them to qualified Barbadian hotel
operators and permit them to share common services and facilities such
as central management, marketing, purchasing, and sports and recreation
facilities.
The project will: (i) increase local ownership of tourist facilities;
(ii) provide opportunities for Barbadians to lease and manage hotels
and other tourist facilities, particularly of those catering to the
upper income brackets of the market; (iii) stimulate demand for local
agricultural products and other local services; and (iv) stimulate the
development of the northern part of the island. The project takes into
account the need to preserve the beauty of the island, the training of
local labor and is expected to set examples for future tourism development
where operators share common services and facilities.
The project consists of:
(a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of five hotels and two
apartels totalling 308 guest rooms at Heywoods beach just north of
Speightstown on the northwestern coast of the island. The hotels and
apartels have been planned in the form of a village, which will be
called "Heywoods Village."
(b) the construction, furnishing and equipping of common buildings and
facilities for administration and maintenance, shopping, dining, and
recreation.
(c) the construction of a 1.8 mile road around Speightstown and the
Heywoods Village.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d) project administration, marketing and technical assistance for
management services.
There are risks in the project inherent in its innovative nature.
Setting up a number of Barbadian hotel operators and organizing them into
a functioning team is difficult. In addition, the marketing during the
early years will be difficult until the travel industry is convinced that
the Heywoods Village is at least comparable to the conventional hotel or
apartel product offered elsewhere in Barbados and the region. Failure in
dealing effectively with these aspects might reduce benefits significantly.
Even with such failures, however, the project would remain an attractive
hotel complex with a strong demand base and satisfactory economic and
financial benefits.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local      Foreign      Total
Buildings                                2.00         5.06        7.06
Infrastructure and Sport facilities    0.72           1.27       1.99
Solar water heating                      0.11         0.34       0.45
Bypass road                              0.36         0.58       0.94
Administration, Marketing &
technical assistance                   0.53         0.94       1.47
Preopening expense and working capital 0.37              -       0.37
Total Base Costs                       4.09         8.19      12.28
Contingencies:
Physical                               0.39         0.81       1.20
Price                                  0.82         1.87       2.69
Land acquisition                         1.03            -       1.03
Total Project Costs (includes
taxes of US$0.7 million)             6.33       10.87       17.20
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
Local      Foreign      Total
Bank                                       -         8.00        8.00
CDB                                      0.33         2.87       3.20
Government                               6.00          -         6.00
Total Costs                            6.33       10.87       17.20
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank FY   1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual              0.4      1.7       3.0      1.8       0.8      0.3
Cumulative          0.4      2.1       5.1      6.9       7.7      8.0
Rate of Return:              17.5%
Staff Appraisal Report No. 2346-BB dated March 28, 1979.



INIERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BARBADOS
FOR A TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I F ibmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$8.0 million to Barbados for a tourism project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 7% per annum. The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) is expected
to co-finance the project with a loan of US$3.2 million equivalent. The CDB
loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years grace, at 8% per
annum. Upon completion of the construction of the project a portion of the
Bank and the CDB loans, estimated at BDS$21.5 million, would be relent to
the Barbados Tourism Investment Corporation for 12 years with 3 years grace
at an interest rate of 10% per annum. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the relent portions of the bank and CDB loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Economic Memorandum on Barbados, Report No.
1618a-BB, dated March 31, 1978) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1978. Annex 1 contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Barbados is among the most densely populated countries in the
world, with a total area of 166 square miles and a population of 252,000.
Its location is somewhat isolated, as it lies in the southeastern Caribbean,
some 100 miles east of the smaller islands of St. Vincent and St. Lucia, its
nearest neighbors, and about 350 miles north of the coast of South America.
The island is small even by Caribbean standards, being less than one-tenth
the size of Trinidad and Tobago. It is one of the more developed countries
of the Caribbean Common Market. Its per capita income in 1977, US$1,760
(according to the World Bank Atlas definition), is only exceeded in the
region, by that of Trinidad and Tobago (US$2,380). Its relatively high
income, the smallness of the island and its relative isolation from the rest
of the Caribbean have contributed to the building of a rather homogeneous,
close-knit society, with a long history of constitutional government. The
country, which had been a British colony, attained self-government in 1961
and became a sovereign state in November 1966. Barbados joined the Bank in
September 1974.
4.        While the country's natural resource base is limited, the available
resources are utilized in a relatively efficient manner.  Soil, topography
and rainfall patterns are ideally suited for growing sugarcane, which is the
main agricultural product.  There are no known metallic mineral deposits.
However, pockets of petroleum and natural gas at present supply about one-
third of the domestic energy consumption needs. A major strength of the
country is its tolerant and well-educated population. Perhaps the island's
most valuable natural resources are its beautiful beaches and mild weather,
which now attract more than 300,000 tourists annually and have permitted
tourism to develop as one of the two most dynamic sectors of the economy,
the other being manufacturing.



- 2 -
5.        The international recession has recently evoked apprehension over
the perils of excessive reliance on a single sector, tourism, for future
growth. The result has been a redirection of both public and private effort
increasingly into export-oriented manufacturing, thus attempting to diversify
the sources of economic growth and of foreign exchange earnings. The
Barbados Industrial Development Corporation (BIDC), in particular, has been
the prime vehicle for attracting private capital and launching new indus-
trial enterprises in the country. The current strategy, as it pertains to
the manufacturing sector, can be expected to entail continued effort on the
part of BIDC in its search for, and promotion of, new ventures.
6.        Barbados possesses a relatively well developed infrastructure.
The road system provides ready access to virtually every corner of the island.
As a result of a rapid growth in private motor vehicles, however, road con-
gestion is becoming a serious problem; there is need for improvements in the
public transportation system. A large jet-accommodating airport and deepwater
harbor supply air and sea transportation services for the country as well as
for the nearby islands. Power generation capacity, although adequate at
present, could pose increasing problems by the early 1980s when the peak
demand is forecast to exceed the present generating plant load-carrying
capability unless new investments are undertaken to meet the emerging genera-
ting gap. The Government has systematically pursued policies geared to meet
the basic needs of the population by increasing education, health and housing
services. Nevertheless, further efforts in this direction are still required,
especially for the poorer segments of the population.
7.        Unemployment in Barbados is a grave problem that not only is a
drain on the country's resources but is also socially debilitating. Although
the unemployment rate is estimated to have declined from above 20% in 1975
to around 12.5% in mid-1978, the problem continues to be serious. Employment
in the manufacturing sector grew rapidly in 1977 and 1978, but since the new
jobs have gone predominantly to new entrants in the labor force - mostly
women - the effect on the unemployment rate has been dampened. At the same
time, the island suffers from shortages in certain key skills. To reduce
unemployment in the future, therefore, manpower training schemes must accom-
pany increased investment in employment-generating activities. Population
growth has traditionally been substantially lower than 1% per annum because
of a successful family planning program and high migration to seek employment
opportunities elsewhere. In recent years, restrictions on emigration by the
United States, United Kingdom and Canada have severely curtailed emigration.
As a result, future population growth is expected to be at a rate of about
1.2% per annum. Distribution of income in Barbados is less uneven than is
usual in other similar countries. Statistics compiled from income recipients
for 1969/70 show that the proportion of total income accruing to the poorest
40% was 18.6%, while the top 20% of income recipients received 44%.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        The structure of economic activity in Barbados changed substan-
tially in recent times with the sugar industry losing its predominant position
in the economy to the fast-growing tourist, manufacturing and government



- 3 -
sectors. The most important sectors in the economy at present are the tourist
sector, which together with its ancillary service activities generates about one-
third of GDP and accounts for about half of the foreign exchange earnings, and
the manufacturing sector, which even if contributing a smaller share of GDP (11%)
has been and is expected to continue to be a leading sector in terms of its
contributions both to overall growth and foreign exchange earnings. Sugar now
accounts for less than 7% of GDP compared with 33% in the 1950s. Prolonged
periods of dry weather combined with rising labor costs and weak international
prices have been responsible for a decline in sugar production from the 1967
level of over 200,000 tons to an estimated 125,000 tons in 1979.
9.        Because of its narrow resource base and limited internal market,
Barbados is highly dependent on the external sector of its economy. In
1978 imports and exports of goods and nonfactor services were equivalent to
about 69% and 67% of GDP respectively. Food imports constitute roughly one-
half of domestic food consumption, a large portion of which is utilized to
cover the needs of the tourist sector.
10.       After a period of dynamic growth between 1966 and 1970--8.5% per
capita per annum--real GDP at factor cost grew modestly during the early 1970s,
primarily because of the poorer performance of the tourist industry in the
latter period. During this period the country began to experience increasing
balance of payments and budgetary problems accompanied by rising unemploy-
ment and accelerating inflation. Sharp increases in international prices
associated with rising energy costs triggered unprecedented annual average
increases in the retail price index of almost 40% in 1974 and about 20% in
1975. In these two years, the economic situation deteriorated further with
real GDP declining at an average annual rate of about 1%. The major cause was
the economic recession in the industrial countries combined with increasing
prices for Barbados imports. Per capita income declined by an average of
about 2% p.a. during these two years.
11.       The economy recovered relatively well in 1976 and 1977 with real
GDP growth averaging about 5% per annum, the main impetus coming from tourism,
manufacturing and construction. The renewed growth resulted from a rise in
tourism arrivals and length of stay, increased investment promotion efforts
and use of idle manufacturing capacity, as well as an increase in the number
of both private and public sector construction projects. In addition, the
performance of the agricultural sector was enhanced as improved weather
conditions for sugar led to higher yields and output increases of 5% and
15% in these two years, Real GDP growth increased to 6% in 1978, in spite
of a poor sugar crop and stagnating nonsugar agriculture, as a result of
further acceleration in the growth of tourism and manufacturing output.
Inflation fell to 5% in 1976 after the realignment of the Barbadian dollar
with the US dollar, but increased to 8.3% in 1977 and 9.5% in 1978 as a
result of rising import prices, a prolonged drought in the agricultural
sector and sizable overall wage increases in public sector salaries awarded
in 1976 and again in 1978.



- 4 -
12.       The capacity of the public sector to finance its investment
expenditure declined during 1974-77. With the exception of a brief surge in
1975 when the sugar price boom provided a revenue windfall, public sector
savings averaged less than 2.5% of GDP during FY74/75-77/78. Although
Central Government revenues grew rapidly during the period, in reflection
of economic growth and the introduction of a number of tax measures, they
were outpaced by the expansion of current expenditure. The major reasons
for the increase in current spending were wage adjustments for public service
employees, growing welfare payments and the rise of subsidies for public
services (transport, water, housing and sanitation). During the same period,
public sector investment expanded rapidly. Although foreign project loans
financed a portion of the investment, as a consequence of the shortage of
public sector savings the Government was forced to rely heavily on the
domestic banking system, including in some years substantial financing from
the Central Bank.
13.       In recognition of its fiscal difficulties, the Government took a
number of measures in 1978. Rates for corporate and personal income taxes,
consumption taxes and social security taxes were raised. At the same time,
a withholding tax on interest and an employment levy were introduced.
Efforts to contain the growth of government spending on other goods and
services helped mitigate the impact of a civil service wage increase
averaging about 15%. As a consequence of these measures and the high level
of economic growth achieved in 1978, public sector savings are estimated at
over 5% of GDP for 1978/79. Public sector investment is expected to decline
significantly, reflecting both the curtailment of domestically financed
investment spending and the completion of several large externally financed
projects. The Government should accordingly be able to make net repayments
to the domestic banking system during 1978/79.
14.       A lasting improvement in public finances will require continued
control of current expenditures and improvement in the administration of
existing taxes. Although the tax burden as a percentage of GDP is
already quite high, and consequently a significant increase in revenue as
a percentage of GDP is unlikely, improvements in the collection of property
taxes, personal income taxes, and hotel and restaurant sales taxes could
still provide some additional income. With regard to current expenditures,
control of public service wage increases and gradual reductions of subsidies
to public services are of high priority. The Government has already taken
a number of steps to improve tax administration, and the introduction of an
expenditure control system which would authorize expenditures on a quarterly
basis rather than for the whole year is presently being considered.
15.       The balance of payments has been under continuous pressure since
the early 1970s, reflecting the deterioration in the Government's financial
position and foreign market developments. In the wake of the upturn in
domestic economic activity after 1975, imports surged. Imports grew rapidly
because of accelerating wage increases, expansionary government spending and
easily obtainable consumer credit. Adverse movements in the terms of trade
as a result of declining sugar prices after their 1975 peak affected export
earnings. As a result, a large current account deficit equivalent to nearly



- 5 -
12% of GDP was registered in 1976. External capital inflows were not suf-
ficient to cover the large current account deficit, and by year-end inter-
national reserves declined to the equivalent of less than one month's imports
of goods and nonfactor services. In order to stem this decline in foreign
exchange res-rves, the Government introduced measures in 1977 aimed at curb-
ing consumes goods imports. Quantitative restrictions on imports of consumer
durables were expanded and consumer credit was restricted. Simultaneously
foreign exchange earnings from tourism increased rapidly causing the current
account deficit in the balance of payments to decline to 7% of GDP. In 1978,
the deficit declined further to about 2% of GDP, mainly as a result of
continuing fast growth of tourism revenues and of manufactured exports. 1/
While the 1977 and 1978 deficits represent a substantial improvement over
the large 1976 deficit, external borrowing from foreign commercial banks
and IMF compensatory financing were used to build up foreign exchange reserves.
Growth Prospects
16.       The economy appears to have the potential to attain growth of about
5% per annum over the next several years. Relatively high rates of growth of
tourism and manufacturing are likely to be sustained in the future, but there
is also significant growth potential in nonsugar agriculture (fruits and
vegetables) through the introduction of irrigation and in fisheries. Given
the expected composition of this growth, this would make possible a decline
in unemployment. In order to sustain such growth over the medium term
without an undesirably large buildup of external debt, however, the Government
will have to continue sustaining national savings in order to avoid new
substantial increases in the now moderate current deficit of the balance of
payments. As in the past, future economic growth will have to be export led
and this in turn will depend on the Government's ability to contain wage in-
creases so that the international competitiveness of Barbadian exports is
maintained. The Government's strategy with respect to the balance of payments
will continue to emphasize growth in export manufacturing and tourism, supported
by credit and import controls.
17.       The Government is currently preparing a five-year development
plan for 1979-83 aimed at increasing productivity and at sustaining adequate
rates of growth of national income. It is expected that this plan will place
high priority on growth and diversification of exports of goods and services.
A reinforced and reorganized export promotion agency is to provide a comple-
mentary vehicle for the promotion and marketing of manufactured products
abroad. Agricultural production is to satisfy a growing proportion of
domestic demand and stronger linkages to the tourism sector are to be
developed, thus reducing the mounting food import bill.
1/   Barbados' official balance of payments statistics show a very large,
positive, errors and missions item which is believed to reflect,
predominantly, underestimated tourist expenditures. The figures
quoted in the text are based on revised estimates of tourist expendi-
tures prepared by a recent Bank mission. While there might still be
some uncertainty concerning the exact level of the deficit in the
current account, either set of figures, with or without adjustment of
tourist expenditures, shows a significant decline in the size of such
deficit.



18.       The Government's development strategy is based on maintaining a
mixed economy with the private sector playing a major role accompanied by
active public sector support. Education and manpower training are expected
to form an integral part of the Government's program, since the development
of skilled manpower will help to accelerate growth of industry and non-
traditional agriculture. Improvements in physical infrastructure including
power-generating capacity are to support the development of the productive
sectors of the economy.
19.       With a public external debt service ratio of 2.2% in 1978 and
debt outstanding and disbursed amounting to US$58 million (11.4% of GDP)
at the end of 1978, Barbados has modest external public indebtedness.
The current external debt profile is relatively favorable and is expected
to continue to be so. In the light of its moderate debt burden and
favorable growth prospects, Barbados is expected to remain creditworthy
for loans on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       Barbados became a Bank member in 1974.  The proposed tourism
project would be the Bank's second lending operation. The first Bank loan
to Barbados was for an education project; it was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 19, 1978. In addition, Barbados has benefited from
the Bank's lending to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). So far, a loan
of $2.6 million from IBRD resources was made by the CDB to Barbados in
September 1978 for an industrial development project.
21.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The Bank organized
last June a subgroup of donors under the auspices of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development to coordinate financial and technical
aid to Barbados. At the first meeting of the subgroup in June 1978, multi-
lateral and bilateral donors expressed substantial interest in financing
specific priority projects and in providing technical assistance to Barbados.
In addition, in light of Barbados' balance of payments difficulties, the Group
recommended that the country receive an allocation of up to US$7 million,
within the framework of the Caribbean Development Facility (CDF) 1/ Out of
this amount the UK and the US have already committed loans of i 850,000
(US$1.65 million) and $1.5 million respectively. The Bank is planning to
organize a similar subgroup for Barbados during the Second Meeting of the
Caribbean Group scheduled for June 1979.
1/   The CDF was established during the First Meeting of the Caribbean Group
for Cooperation in Economic Development, held at Bank headquarters,
June 19-24, 1978. It is a transitional emergency financing facility
to cover local costs and cost overruns of development projects in
Caribbean countries, including Barbados. It is planned to be phased out
over a maximum period of five years. Financing offered within the
facility framework is expected to provide over US$100 million during
FY79 to the countries of the Caribbean. The major contributors are
the US, UK, Canada, and the OPEC Special Fund.



22.       In the future, the Bank's lending to Barbados either directly
or indirectly through the CDB will be mainly directed towards projects for
export manufacturing, diversified agricultural production, urban improvements
and power generation. This is in line with the Government's strategy to
increase productivity; to sustain adequate rates of economic growth; to reduce
the mounting import food bill while satisfying the needs of the local popu-
lation and the tourism sector; to improve the living conditions of the urban
poor; and to increase the present power-generating capacity of the country in
order to meet increasing demand requirements.
23.       It is estimated that by 1982 the Bank's share in Barbados' public
external debt outstanding and disbursed will be about 3%. The Bank's share
in the external public debt service will also be about 3%.
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
Background and Overview of the Sector
24.       The tourism assets of Barbados have long made it a popular holiday
destination. The island offers the visitor extended stretches of attractive
beaches; a pleasant tropical climate tempered by constant breezes; social
and political stability; easy accessibility; a wide range of accommoda-
tions appealing to all income levels; and the old-fashioned charm and friend-
liness of its people, which has brought visitors back to the island again
and again.
25.       Prior to the 1960s the tourist industry in Barbados catered largely
to small numbers of wealthy visitors. It was in the early sixties that major
growth in the sector occurred. Excluding cruise visitors, arrivals rose at an
average annual rate of 18% between 1961-70, then gradually slowed to an
average growth of 10% from 1970 to 1974 and, due to the energy crisis and the
worldwide economic recession, declined for the first time to 222,000 in 1975
from the 1974 peak of 231,000. In 1976, the number of visitors started to
increase again and in 1978 reached a record level of about 315,000 a 17%
increase over 1977.
26.       About one-half of Barbados tourists arrive during the "high" season,
covering the months of December to April, when the weather is cold in the
principal generating markets of North America and Europe. A secondary peak
during the months of July and August coincides with the long summer break in
schools and universities in the major tourist-generating markets and represents
the only period of the year when the family can travel together. The United
States and Canada are the chief tourist-generating markets for Barbados,
accounting for almost 60% of total arrivals. Barbados, however, is actively
attempting to diversify its market and has managed to increase the proportion
of UK, Germany and Venezuela visitors from 11% of total visitors in 1973 to
about 16% in 1977. Between 1970 and 1974, the average length of stay of
tourists increased from five to nine days, which is longer than the average
in the Caribbean region. This is largely due to the expansion in self-catering
facilities and the preference of many visitors for such facilities over
conventional hotel accommodations.



-8-
The Hotel Industry
27.       The hotel industry in Barbados is well diversified appealing to all
income levels. Its accommodations range from small guesthouses to medium-size
high quality hotels, to large apartment complexes of various types and sizes.
In October 1978, there were 179 accommodation establishments with over 11,000
beds. Between 1968 and 1978, accomodation capacity doubled. In the sixties
much of the expansion was in hotel rooms in response to the growth in US
arrivals who prefer full service accomodations. In the seventies a more
cost-conscious, mainly Canadian, market was developed which resulted in the
construction of apartment-type establishments, which now account for almost
50% of total capacity. During the same period, guest house capacity has
dropped and the number of middle and lower class hotels have remained at
virtually the same level. Growth in total capacity during the last three
years has been averaging 6% annually. Capacity is concentrated on the west
and south coasts of the island with the west coast catering primarily to the
upper income market and the south to the lower income tourists.
28.       Barbados does not have large hotels; the largest traditional hotel
has only 173 rooms. Only 17% of the establishments have more than 50 rooms
while 57% have 20 or less. Seventy-one percent of lower class apartments are
locally owned. By contrast, 73% of luxury hotels and 57% of higher class
apartels are foreign owned. Management of the five largest hotels, which
account for about 60% of total luxury hotel capacity, is in foreign hands.
Average bed occupancy in 1978 is estimated at about 56%. Luxury establishments,
however, expect bed occupancy to be as high as 65%.
29.       The Barbados hotel industry is one of the most profitable in the
Caribbean region, with an estimated average gross operating profit of 19% of
sales compared to 13% for the region. Well managed apartels achieve a gross
operating profit of 30-40% of sales and luxury hotels a gross operating profit
of 20-25% of sales.
Organization of the Sector
30.       The Ministry of Tourism has jurisdiction over almost all tourism
activities. Its sector planning capability has recently been augmented by
the establishment of a Tourism Planning Committee whose members represent
the Ministries of Finance and Planning, Communications and Works, Tourism
and Housing and Lands.  Other agencies involved in tourism are:
(a) the Board of Tourism, which handles promotion and marketing.
It has offices located in Barbados, New York, Caracas,
Frankfurt and London;
(b) the Barbados Development Bank (BDB) which makes loans for
construction and refurbishings of small hotels. As of March
1977, two-thirds of BDB's loan portfolio of about BDS$9 million
was in tourism;



- 9 -
(c) The Ministry of Housing and Lands which through its Town and
Country Planning Department is responsible for zoning regulations,
and a Parks and Beaches Commission which concerns itself with the
preservation of the parks and beaches.
31.       In the private sector, the Barbados Hotel Association represents
hoteliers in matters of mutual interest, especially in tax policies and wage
negotiations. It also takes on various promotional activities such as
exhibitions, entertainment and conferences. The Association is working in
close cooperation with the Board of Tourism in the public relations and
promotion areas.
Government Strategy for Tourism Development
32.       Because of the growing importance of tourism to the economy, the
Government has decided that it should play a more active role in its develop-
ment, and plans to guide future investment and growth to assure that the
interests of the island are better served. The Government's objectives
in this regard are: (i) to increase visitor arrivals and expenditures;
(ii) to control the quantitative and qualitative growth of the sector;
(iii) to increase local ownership and management of the island's hotels and
other tourist facilities; (iv) to establish better linkages with agriculture,
fisheries and other sectors of the economy; and (v) to use tourism investment
to stimulate the development of the northern part of the island. In collabora-
tion with the Ministry of Tourism the Organization of American States (OAS),
recently prepared a Tourism Development Plan which seeks to achieve these
objectives. The plan gives high priority to the proposed project. Also the
Ministry of Tourism is in the process of revising the "Hotel Aids Act" of 1967
which provides for income tax relief and custom duty exemptions for new
hotels. The revised Act will encourage construction of accomodations that
would cater to middle and upper income categories of the market since these
facilities have more favorable impact on foreign exchange earnings and employ-
ment creation than the lower category hotels and apartels. The Government
also supports the production of handicrafts and plans to improve and redirect
its hotel training program to better meet the needs of the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Barbados Tourism Project"
(No. 2346-BB dated March 28, 1979) is being distributed separately. Annex III
contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a description
of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed
loan took place in Washington, D.C., on March 7-9, 1979. The Barbadian
delegation was led by Mr. Andrew Lewis, Chief Research Officer, Ministry of
Tourism.
Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project would add an innovative dimension to Barbados'
tourism facilities and its objectives support the Government's policies for
the development of the sector. It would increase local ownership of hotels



- 10 -
and provide opportunities to Barbadians to lease and manage tourism facilities,
particularly those catering to the upper end of the market; it would help to
stimulate growth of economic activities in the northern part of the island; it
would establish better linkages with agriculture and other sectors of the
economy (para 47); and it would serve as a model for future tourism development
where operators share common services and facilities. Also, it would take into
account the need to preserve the beauty of the island and the training needs
of the local labor force.
Project Description
35.       The project would be located at Heywoods, near Speightstown
at the northern end of the West Coast of the island, some 12 miles from
Bridgetown, the capital. Speightstown is an old settlement, and for
many years was the only harbor from which sugar, molasses and rum were
shipped. While remaining the second largest urban nucleus in Barbados,
Speightstown now is a rural and fishing community without any major
economic activity. The proposed project is part of the Government's
plan to revitalize the Speightstown area. The project would be built on
a 28-acre site recently acquired by the Government and fronted by a beach
of good quality. The project would consist of the following components:
(a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of five hotels
and two apartels totalling 308 guest rooms. The five hotels
and two apartels have been planned in the form of a holiday
village, which will be called "Heywoods Village." Of the
hotels, three would have 32 guest rooms each and two would
have 48 guest rooms each. The two apartels would have 58
apartments each;
(b) the construction, furnishing and equipping of common
buildings and other facilities for the Heywoods Village
including an administration building, shopping area,
central restaurant, meeting hall, beach market, internal
roads, parking, public access to the beach, landscaping,
laundry, sports center, central swimming pool, nine-hole
golf course, tennis courts, and general maintenance
facilities.
(c) the construction of a 1.8-mile road around Speightstown and the
Heywoods Village which would divert traffic from the present
road which runs through the town and through the project site.
The Government will close the existing road through the site and
direct traffic to the bypass road around the project as soon as
it is completed (Section 3.11 of Loan Agreement);
(d) project administration, marketing, and technical assistance for
management services.
36.       Water in sufficient quantity and adequate and reliable electric
power, telephone and telex services are available in the area and would be
provided by the local utility companies from their existing networks. Sewerage
would be drained by gravity and then pumped to a sewerage treatment plant. To



- 11 -
conserve fuel resources and to take advantage of Barbados' sunny climate, solar
energy would be used to meet the hot water requirements of the project. Four
solar heating "tanks" mounted on simple structures over parts of the parking
lots, with storage tanks at ground level alongside and a separate booster
system would provide about 75% of the hot water needs of the village.
Project Costs and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.2 million
equivalent, including physical contingencies of US$1.2 million and price
contingencies of about US$2.7 million. Physical contingencies amount to 10%
of base costs and price contingencies to 22%. The estimated direct and
indirect foreign exchange component is US$10.9 million equivalent or 63% of
total project cost. Imported equipment and furniture would be exempt from
customs duties and are costed accordingly. However, some of the building
materials, fuel and automobiles would be acquired by contractors on the open
market and would be subject to duties and taxes that are estimated at US$0.7
million equivalent. Marketing and management has been estimated at US$1.15
million.  Of this amount US$422,000 or 6.3 manyears at a cost of about
US$67,000 equivalent per manyear is for management services.
38.       The proposed Bank loan of US$8.0 million would finance 73% of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. A CDB loan of US$3.2 million
would on a parallel basis finance the remainder of the foreign exchange cost
as well as some local costs. The balance of project costs will be borne by
the Government. The CDB loan is expected to have a term of 15 years including
3 years grace and interest at 8% per annum. The components to be financed by
the CDB loan are: (a) civil works and equipment for village infrastructure,
sports facilities, and landscaping; (b) all furniture and fixtures; and (c)
project administration. The loan has been approved by CDB management and is
scheduled to be presented to CDB's Executive Board in April 1979. Approval of
this loan by CDB's Board will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01
of Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
39.       The Ministry of Tourism will be responsible for the overall execution
of the proposed project. Responsibility for the construction of the bypass
road will be delegated to the Ministry of Communications and Works. Both
Ministries have the requisite experience and competence to execute the project.
To ensure proper supervision and coordination of design and construction, a
Project Unit would be set up within the Ministry of Tourism. A full time
Project Manager, acceptable to the Bank has already been designated. The
Project Unit would include an engineer, an accountant, and a procurement officer,
all to be acceptable to the Bank and other support staff. Key staff of the
Project Unit will be appointed by June 30, 1979 (Section 3.02 of Loan Agreement).
Procurement
40.       Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except
for equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000
equivalent, and civil works contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent, which



- 12 -
would be procured on the basis of local bidding procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank. A maximum of US$200,000 in the aggregate for equipment and of
US$500,000 in the aggregate for civil works, excluding works to be carried out
on force account, would be procured in this manner. In the case of procurement
under international competitive bidding procedures, domestic manufacturers
tendering under international procedures would receive a margin of preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower,
and regional preferences for other members of the Caribbean Common Market
(CARICOM) would be limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of non-regional goods or
the difference in the amount of tariffs, payable by CARICOM and non-CARICOM
suppliers, whichever is lower.
41.       Construction of the section of the bypass around the project site
will be executed on force account. Some work has already been done on this
road which, can be used in the new construction. The Ministry of Communi-
cations and works which will undertake to construct this road has adequate
force account capacity and equipment at its disposal to execute this work
effectively. It is estimated that about US$540,000 equivalent will be
required to complete this section of the road.
Disbursement
42.       Disbursements of the proceeds of the loan would be made on the
following basis: (a) 70% of expenditures for civil works on buildings
and the solar water heating system, (b) 60% of expenditures for civil
works on the bypass road; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
and 85% of expenditures for locally procured equipment for buildings and solar
water heating systems; (d) 70% of expenditures for professional services; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for marketing and technical assistance
expenses.  The loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years
through December 31, 1984. Construction is expected to be completed in 3.5
years. Assistance for management and marketing will be provided during the
first two years of operations. In order not to delay implementation of the
project, retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 will be provided in the
loan for architectural and engineering consultant services incurred after
December 1, 1978.
Operational Aspects of the Project
43.       The Government would create a wholly owned statutory corporation,
the "Barbados Tourism Investment Corporation" to own the assets of the Heywoods
Village and to provide overall management and coordination to its operations.
Satisfactory draft legislation and an organization plan for the Corporation
have been submitted to the Bank.  Enactment of appropriate legislation accept-
able to the Bank creating the Corporation is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of Loan Agreement). Future changes in the organizational plan
of the Corporation would require Bank approval (Sections 3.07 of Loan Agreement).
Upon completion of the construction of the project, the assets of Heywoods
Village will be transferred to the Corporation. The Government's contribution
to the cost of the village, estimated at BD$12.5 million, will be passed on as
equity while the village related portion of the Bank and the CDB loans will be
passed on as long-term debt. This loan will be repaid to the Government on
terms consistent with prevailing loan terms in Barbados i.e., over a 12-year



- 13 -
period including 3 years grace at 10% interest (Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement).
The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk. The average inflation
rate in Barbados in the 1976 to 1978 period was 7%. The average inflation
rate for the 1 79 to 1981 period is expected to be somewhat higher, mainly
owing to the b gher expected rate of international inflation.
44.       A Board of Directors, to be appointed by the Government, would
have overall responsibility for establishing policy and reviewing village
management performance. At least one hotel or apartel operator from Heywoods
Village would be appointed to the Board of the Corporation and the majority
of the Board members would be drawn from the private sector (Section 3.07 of
Loan Agreement). Authority and full responsibility for management of the
village would be delegated to a General Manager. He and other senior officials
of the Corporation, including a Food and Beverage Manager, Financial Manager
and Marketing Manager would be responsible for the management of the Corpora-
tion as well as for providing technical assistance and training to hotel and
apartel operators and concessionaires. To the extent that these officials
initially may not be Barbadian, local staff would be trained to take over
these functions eventually. Funds to finance the services of key senior
personnel before the opening of the hotels and apartels and during the first
two years of operation are included in the project. The appointment and
terms and conditions of employment of the General Manager, Financial Manager,
and Food and Beverage Manager would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.09 of Loan Agreement).
45.       The Heywoods Village organization and management structure is
designed to provide central management and marketing services and to exercise
quality control over the activities carried out by the individual operators
while allowing them a significant degree of autonomy in the management of their
businesses. To achieve this objective, a Village Management Committee (VMC)
would be established to provide a forum for participation of hotel and apartel
operators and concessionaires in decision making on an ongoing basis and to
improve coordination and communication. The General Manager would chair the
VMC; its members would include the senior management of the Corporation, all
hotel and apartel operators and at least one representative of the
concessionaires.
46.       The Central Marketing Department, under the direction of the
Marketing Manager, and with guidance from the VMC, would have responsibility
for planning marketing programs, conducting marketing promotion activities,
negotiating with sales representatives, wholesalers and tour operators,
and processing bookings from these sources on behalf of the hotels and apartels.
The initial marketing campaign is considered crucial to the success of the
project. Accordingly, during an 18-month preopening period and at least the
first two years of operation the Corporation should retain the services of an
experienced marketing firm or firms with an established reputation in Barbados'
principal markets. Criteria for the selection of the marketing firm (or firms)
and terms and conditions of their contract will require Bank approval (Section
3.03 of Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
47.       The Food and Beverage Manager, would be responsible for training
restaurant employees, setting and enforcing quality control standards for
all food sold in the village, and operating a central purchasing service.
Central purchasing, which hotel and apartel operators would be encouraged
but not required to use, should achieve improved quality of food and lower
prices. While the village would be free to purchase from sources providing
the best merchandise, service and prices, it is anticipated that volume
purchases by the village would assist the Speightstown fishing industry and
the small farm cooperatives which are expected to grow vegetables in the
area as a result of proposed IDB and CDB projects. 1/
48.       The Financial Manager, in addition to his corporate responsibilities,
would provide technical assistance services to the hotel and apartel operators
and, to a lesser extent, the concessionaires in setting up books of account
and reviewing budgets and performance.
49.       The seven hotels and apartels would be leased on a ten-year renew-
able basis to experienced operators who would be chosen on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Bank which would include hotel management and
training experience, adequate financial capability and Barbadian nationality.
(Section 3.10 of Loan Agreement). There are a number of operators who meet
these criteria in Barbados. Projected levels of earnings and opportunities
for capital gains compare favorably with existing salary levels for Barbadian
senior level hotel management personnel and should provide sufficient
incentive to attract well qualified operators. Hotel and apartel operators
would provide the working capital investment, and personally manage their
respective hotels and apartels. They would be responsible for paying the
Corporation a percentage of total revenues as reimbursement for the cost of
hotel-related overhead borne by the Corporation and a rental fee based on
net room sales. The beach market would be leased on terms that will promote
its use as an effective handicraft and marketing center (Section 3.10 of
Loan Agreement).
Financial Prospects
50.       The Corporation is expected to experience financial losses in the
first three years of operation, primarily as a result of high interest,
depreciation and amortization expenses. It is expected to achieve a breakeven
position in 1985 and to operate on an increasingly profitable basis thereafter.
Despite these initial losses, the Corporation is not expected to experience
cash flow deficits after the first year of operations. Over the life of the
project, the corporation is expected to earn a financial rate of return on
total investment, in real prices, of about 7%.
1/   Two agricultural projects under preparation are directly related to the
Speightstown area. They are an integrated rural agricultural development
project which is expected to be financed by IDB and the Spring Hall agri-
cultural project which is expected to be financed by the CDB. Both projects
aim to increase the production of fruits and vegetables in the area for
consumption by the local population and by tourists. Project implementa-
tion for both projects is expected to start in 1980. In addition a fish
processing and storage project in Speightstown is under consideration by
CIDA.



- 15 -
51.       Financial analysis of the seven hotels and apartels shows that the
hotel and apartel operators would earn salary commensurate with their responsi-
bilities plus returns on their investment (working capital) ranging from 23%
to 27% by 1985.
Market Prospects and Justification
52.       The number of tourists to the Caribbean region increased by 3.5%
annually from 3.7 million in 1970 to 4.7 million in 1977. Tourists to Barbados
registered an 8% growth during the same period. Based on an analysis of
Barbados' three largest markets, Canada, the US and the UK, future tourist
arrivals to Barbados are projected to grow on -he average at 7% per annum.
53.       The potential demand for the Heywoods Village originates from both
the expected growth in tourism in Barbados and the specific demand generated
by the project. Market research conducted in 1978 indicates that 630 addi-
tional hotel rooms and 400 apartments would be required by 1985 to satisfy
the growth in tourist arrivals. Of these, about 30% will be provided by the
Heywoods Village. Since few high quality beach sites are still undeveloped,
the remaining gap in supply is expected to be covered mainly through expan-
sion of existing hotels and apartels. The Heywoods Village is expected to
generate additional demand for its village concept which combines demand for
accommodation in high quality small hotels and apartels with demand for central
facilities usually provided only by large luxury hotels. A market research
study completed in 1978 concluded that by 1985 one third of total annual
visitors to the Heywoods Village can be attributed solely to the village
concept.
54.       The project's main economic benefits consist of expenditures on
goods and services by visitors staying in the Heywoods Village hotels and
apartels. These expenditures would be for room, food, beverages, recreation,
and shopping within the Heywoods Village as well as for some minor expenditures
outside the village. After allowing for the foreign exchange costs associated
with these expenditures a net 56% will be retained in Barbados. Revenues
diverted from other hotels in the early years of operation were excluded on
the grounds that these would not be incremental. Expenditures by local
guests within the village, revenues from air travel with the national
airline, airport taxes and benefits generated by the bypass road were also
excluded from the analysis, lending a conservative bias to the estimates of
economic benefits. On this basis, the economic rate of return on the
project investment is 17.5%. The direct benefits from the project would
be distributed 55% to employees in the village, 30% to the Government and
15% to village hotel and apartel operators, concessionaries, and outside
restaurant owners.
Project Risks
55.       There are risks in the project inherent in its innovative nature.
In addition to managing the largest hotel complex in Barbados, the Corporation
wlll have the additional tasks of attracting a number of Barbadian operators



- 16 -
and organizing them into a coordinated group operating seven hotels and
apartels and seven food and beverage facilities. In addition, the marketing
during the early years will be difficult until the travel industry is convinced
that the Heywoods Village is at least comparable to the traditional hotel or
apartel product offered elsewhere in Barbados and the Caribbean. Failure
in dealing effectively with these elements will reduce benefits significantly.
Even with such failures, however, the project would remain an attractive
hotel complex with a strong demand base and satisfactory economic and
financial benefits.
Social Aspects
56.       The project is expected to have significant economic and social
impact on the Speightstown area. The bypass road will reduce traffic conges-
tion in the town and project facilities have been designed in such a way as to
allow the public continued direct access to the beach. The village hall, the
beach and other facilities will be available both to tourists and the local
population. Volume purchases by the Heywood Village should assist the
Speightstown fishing industry and the producers of fruits and vegetables in
the area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between Barbados and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III,
Section 3. Additional conditions of effectiveness are: approval by CDB's
Board of the CDB loan and the enactment of legislation establishing the
Heywoods Corporation (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1979



- 17 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
UARBDOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUEET
BAnIADOS                    ZUCNCE CROWS (ADJUSTED AVRSES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. IM.)                                                 - HOST ECET STTE)            _
TOTAL              0.4                                                       Nos     SNT      IET EICRER
AGRICh.TURAL       0.4                                MDST RECEN       OSOORAPEIC    INCME       INCOME
1960  b    1970 Lb EST7R Lk          REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP f
GNP PLK APITA (US$)                  400.0       970.0    1760.0           1066.7     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     375.0      1104.0   1078.0             911.1     1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         0.23        0.24      0.25
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL)  ..                      ..            57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      538.0       464.0     574.0             25.6       27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    676.0       649.0     676.0             77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.3        37.0      37.0             42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         55.3        54.7      55.0             52.2       56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.4         8.3        8.0             3.7        5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              0.9 f       0.2 If    0.7I/            2.7        1.6          2.9
URBAN                               *-           *-        *-             4-3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     32.2        26.9       18.7            35.8       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.0         9.4       9.2              9.1        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.3         1.4        1.5             2.6        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLAINING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOME)    ..           ..        ..             15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             98.4       100.0       73.3           102.1      103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.0        94.0      133.0           103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          65.0        73.0 ft   82.5             60.3       77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PU,LSE        ..        47.0 J    52.3             26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      3.5         2.2        1.3             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.7        67.6      69.1             62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           61.0        46.3      37.7             56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        98.0    100.0              60.7       67.7        83.0
URBAN                               ..        95.0      100.0            78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                               ..       100.0    100.0              34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       100.0    100.0              61.1       70.3        57.8
URBAN                               ,,       100.0    100.0              80.3       90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..       100.0    100.0              25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2800.0 /h  1890.0   1450.0             1899.3    1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      650.0       430.0    420.0            1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            170.0       100.0    110.0            422.3       275.4       325.8
URBAN                               ..        70.0      90.0            258.2      129.9       250.0
WRAL                                *-       110.0    170.0 L          2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         9.0      11.0             25.6       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0         3.9        ..              5.2        3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               *-          *-        *-
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.2         1.0        ..              2.0        0.9
URBAN                              1.2         1.0        ..              2.1        0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        59.0        ..             51.2       59.2
RURAL                                                                    77.3       78.0
RURL_. .. ..12.8     12.5



- 18 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BAUADOS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AR8AD0S                    RIEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUST D AVERAGES
_ MOST RECENT ESTIATE)
SAME        SAME    WNET HIGHER
HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 tb ESTIMATE lb       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0       105.0      117.0 Lk        103.5        97.6       104.1
FEMALE               96.0        107.0     116.0 /k         102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  40.0        66.0       59.0 Lk         37.2        47.8        44.7
FEKALE               34.0         60.0      61.0 /k          37.9       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  5.0          7.0        7.0            14.7        22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.0        33.0         . ,           32.9        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                          29.0        27.0      20.0 0           17.8        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        94.0        97.0       99.0            74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         35.0        82.0       79.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        150.0       347.0     477.0            173.5       201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ,         63.0     203.0             69.4        97.7       108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  85.0        90.0       98.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          5.0        7.4             4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        90.0        90.0      100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.8        40.0      39.8             21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              26.0        20.0       18.0            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 27.1        31.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.6        37.7       40.0            30.8        33.7        40.1
MALE                                 51.3        48.3       50.3             47.2       50.8         55.8
FEMALE                               30.2        28.4       30.6             13.2       12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.2        1.0              1.7        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        19.8 /1     ..             28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         44.0 /1     ..             57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS      ..         6.8 1       *-             3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        18.6 1       ..            10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           251.9
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..           200.6       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           403.1       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     320.0           258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LZVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            24.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      45.0            65.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indieator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries ang the
indicators depends on availability of dta and in not uniform.
1b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 19611 for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estiuate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin Amorica & Caribbean;  Ld  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976); /f Due to mgration, population grovth rate is lower then rate of
uat.ral increase; Ja  1966; 14  1962; Li Governmnt  stablishments only;  LI  Income recinlent.
Ik These data are for 1974. Corresponding data for 1976 are: 106. 105, 94, 81 and 17.
respectively.



- 19 -                                                        ANNEX 1
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                          Page   3   of  5
gnQ.g:  The adjusted grop  vera.ger for- each indictotr see pnPalatiun-velgbted geo,metric m..ans,. ecludlog the exrm             Ivle  of the iud iatur a nd the most
populat,ed coutry In ech gt..up. Coverage. of'conorien sonug the indicators depends on availability of data an.d is nuot an'for_. Due to lack of dota,
group averages fo r Capit al Surplus Oil Eupurlersoad fadicators of access to water and sicreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
nlmple ppclatio-ueighted geu.e...        ..... without the exclusion of extremealu.
LANE AREA (thousand sq. kma)                                                              Population  per hospital had - total, arbsn, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares compeleing land area and inland waters,                          urban, end rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
AgelcaituralI - Most re Cent entixate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general end specialined hospital and r-
or permanently for crops, pancures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitatien centers.  Hospitals aer  estabiishments permanently steffed by
lie fallo..                                                                              at lost one physician.  Eatablishmneto providing principally custodial
car  aremti included.  Rural heepitulo, however, include health and m.di-
IN? fit CAPITA (10)) - GIP pot tOpit. -ott...ten at Current marker pricea,                   ca   etr   ot permanntly staffed by a physician (hut hy a nedicias-
calculated by sane conversion nethod as World Rank Atlss (1975-77 basis);                eistast, dotres, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acoomn.datol  and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical faculitie..
Admissiona per hospital bed - Total number of admiusi... to or diechargen
ENERGY COOltUMPTIONFEPi CAPITA - Annual  -conoptico of commnercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(ca  and lignite, pctoleun, natural gao and hydro-, nuclear and gee-
Jhraleec trioty ) in~ kilo gena of coal equivalent per capita.                  NiOOsiNG
Average aie. of househald (Persons per household) - total, urban, and ro-a1-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household eonnsists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Totu '!poplto,mdper(iloo                    Au ofJuy1; if no t avaIlable.                   and their sain meals.  A boarder or lodger may ormay 000t be included in
cverar of  wo no-cya   ntro   1960  170. and 1977 date,                             the hossahoid far statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of Noose-
Urban population (pe...eon  of total  -Ratio of urb an to total popula-                    hold vary.
oton; different definitiona of urban arean map affect ...xparabilicy                   Average number of persons Par room - total, urban, and rural - Average non-
of data among co...trieu.                                                                bar of personse per room in all, urban, and rural occupied Conventionsi
Po.pulation density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent struotaree ard
Per  us. km.- Mid-year population pot square kilometer (100 beotaren)                      ncncupied par te.
of total area                                                                          Aecese to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total. urban. and rural -
per sq.Lo.  grcicuItuce laud - Cuaputed me above for agricultural iao-d                   tCnvenuiwal dwellings with electricity In 1livig q-at-c  an percen.tage
-nly.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age strutre(eret  - Children (0-14 years), onrking-sge
115-6i4peara), sod retired (61 years and over) An pernentages of mid-               EDUCATION
pear populatIo.,                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary echoel - teEal, and femle - Total and femle enrollmen.t of all ages
growth racesof ttal and urban nid-year populations for 1950-60,                          atpthe primary level as percen.tageo  respec tively. primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-lb.                                                                    paplaia..a; ne 11ay inoudee ohildee  agd 6-i  yearn hut adjoated for
Crude birth rate (Per thoonad) - Annual  live births per tho-xnd of                        different length. of primary educatton; for Countries with universal edo-
mid-year populutioc; ton-pear -ith-tic overagen ending in 1960 and                       cation enrel1eant may excee d 100 percent since some pupila ar  below or
1970 and five-year average ending on 1971 for moot recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - An...ul deatha per thoaaand of mid-                    Ssconders school - tetal, and fasale  - Computed as above; seco.ndary educa-
yearfpopulation; ten-year arithmetic avrages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tien requires at least four years of apperved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year uverage ending io 1971 for moat recent estimate.                           vidaa general vocational, or teacher training inatructions for pupils
Grco_ eroocr"o rr- A,;rago number of doughtersP a bmowilhu                                  uaaallp of 12 te 17 years of aga; c-reraponde...o.. corsa  are g.nerally
in her nurua  napoduciv  perid if nexprienceprsn  age-                                    mcluded.          -
specific fertility rocen; ...oaipy five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment Ipercant of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1971.                                                                          elude techni Cal. industrial, or ether programs which operate independently
Pomlo cinnio-acc   t-or. annual (tbouns..o  -Annua  num.ber of                       or as departeenta of secondary institutions.
acceptors of hitch-Zcntrol devices under auPicen of national fanily                  Pupil-teether ratio - primary. end secondary - Total students enrolled in
PlnI gprra,                                                                              primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the come-
Famiy plnoig-uar a(Perec.nt of  -auiod woneo      eeetg  of                           po.Andiglels
married women of child-h earin  age (lI-ilyas  who use bir th-control                 Adult literacy rats (percent) - Literate adults (shIv to read and write) an
devicen t  all married w        toe Insame age group,                                    a ptcrnascge of total Adult population aged 11 yearn end over.
POOP AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUneTIOg
Ine   ffod production per capit  (17 0)- Index nuber of per                       Passenger cars (per thousa nd population) - P.assenger carn comprise motor cars
capita anua  production of all fodcneolin                                                eating less than eight persons; exeluden Ambulances, hearese  and military
Pee Capt  sopyo   aois(ocnt of requiremets) - Computed from                              vhils
energY equivalent of net food  upplies available in Country per ospita                Radio remaivars (per thousand population) - All typee nf receivers for radio
per day. Available nupplies Comprise domeatic production, imports less broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; ecludes unlicensed
enporco, ad changes in stock   Net supplie  ecude animal feed,se,                      receivers in Countries and in years when registration  of radio sets was in
quanitie  os_  in foo  p         _cnin,ad lso indtrbin.  i               e-affect; dsat  for recent years may not be comparsble since most coantries
qoireme,nts were estimated by PAO based on physiologice1 needs for nor- abolished licens.ing.
mal activity and health conn.idering enviromenta1 temperature, body                   TV receivers (pee thousand populati en) - TV receivers for bc-adceat ta generd.
reights, age an arc distrihuriJana of populntion, and allowing 10 per- publIC per thousand populatisn; ..melude unlicensed TV receivers in co--
cet rat wseat launeahoid level.                                                          tries And in year  whe  rgsato ETV sets was in effect.
Pecptsuply of Protein (gras per day) - Protein content of per                   Nesae  cruaian (per thsendpopulation) - Shows the average ciecuia-
capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined As tion of "daily geneoral interest newspaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  toquiraenenc  far all coutries asnablished by UJSDA provide for                  cation devoted primanily te racoedog general mews.  It is Considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day end 20 grams be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of an imal and pulse protein. of which 10 gramn nhoold be animal protein. Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Bseied on the number of tickets
7hese standards are lower thus those of 71 gream of total protein and sold daring the year, including admissians to drive-in Cinemas and mobile
13.~.. gram    of aiua  protcia as an average foe the morld, propose.d by                mls
PAP in the Third World Food Survey.
Pecpit .Proteinauo   fo           soma  and cub.e - Protein supply of fond          DMPLOTOgNT
derived from  animals and pulses In grams pee day.                                    Total labor force Ithousad.) - Ecen...ically active persona, including ermed
ChIld (age s I-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoux- forces and unemployed bar excluding housewives, students. etc. Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yearn, to childe-n in chin age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Pale  (percen.t) - Peale labor force as Percentage of total labor force.
HEALTHf                                                                                  Agrtoulture (percent) - Labor forte ia faring, forestry, hunting and fisbing
Life enpectuncy at birch (years) - Averge number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
cemalolog at hitch: onua lly filve-you  averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, cons.truction, manfacturing and
end 1970.                                                                                electricity, water And gas As percentage of total labor forte.
Infa,nt mortalIitY ratjpt___    thousand) - Annual  death. of infents under             Participation rate (percent) - total. sale, and Peale - Total, male, and
on  yearof age per thousgand lIve biehta.                                               female labor force as percencages of their respective populIations.
Access to safe water (percent of popu.lation) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are IO's adjus ted psrticipstien rates reflecting jee-se
Number of peuplr (ctota, urban, and rural; with res..osable access  .                      t r-su-  of the popoletin. and lone rime tred.
eafe water nupply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bat                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of pepalatino under 15 end 65 and ovr t
tocontainlated water such us that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in Age group of 15-64 pears.
and sanitary.wei-lla) as perc-nage. of their respective populations.
Isa ra r eaa_ ubic faerain or standpost located not mare a.RSnRSTo
uha  200 mteter  from  a hous.e may be conidered as being within ran-                 Pernallntae  f private isoa (bo th in cash And kind) received by richest 5
unnable. access of that h.u.e.  It rocal areas reasonable access w-.Id                   percent, richest 20 pecat,an  pioores t20 percen.t, and poorest 40 p-eret
imply tht the houswife or members of the b  . houshld do not have to                      of households.
upend a diaproportiunace part of the day in fetching the family's
rater needs.                                                                         POVERTY TAoRGT oRPUPS
Acces  to excret dipsl(ecn   fpplto)-ttlra,ad                                            Estimated absolute novsty income level (US$ per Capita)     ra   n   ua 
r-1a  - Nmbor of people  torl, urban, and rurl) norvsd byenc-eta                            Absolute povrty income leve  is that Incee level helen which sinimal
cinpo...l as porcencages of their respective populations.  Excrete                        nutritionally adequate diet plus esaen.cia1 nan-food reqoirements is not
cioposal naYinclude the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
Ireroet, of bh_a -eoeo ad waste-wter by water-b-rne sytema                            Estimated relative Poverty income levsl (100$ Par capit.) - urban ad coral-
cthe one ci pit Privies and similue installutiona.                                      Relative poverty income level is thtat income level less than one-third
Population Perphsca  - Population divided by number of practicing                           per capita personal inecome of the country.
physicIans qualified from a medical ochool at university leve.                        Estimated Population below poQ.vet  income level percent)   urban and coral-
Popuo1at1on Per oursin      ....o    . Population divided by numbee of                      Pam.oat of pmpulaiosM (ubeaencd rena) wh   e   ither "abaoluts poor-s
Practicing male and fesale graduate nures, Practical nurses, and                          erelatin  poote whichever is greater.
asitantnus.
Econemic and Social Data Divisien
ECon..mlo Analysis and Prjcioseparte..nt



- 20-                                                    ANNEX
Page4 tof 5
BARBADOS: ECOWIIOC DlSVELOPHSNT DATA
Average
Annual
Actual                        Eat.     Growth Rate         ActualI        Eat.
1970-72     1974    1979    1976    1977         t978        197- 78       1976    1977      1978
( aver age )
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/                                 Constant 1976 USS million                                    Aa percentage of GDP
Gross domestio product                 344.7        369.6   370.0   384.5   406.4       429.2          3.8        100.0   100.0    100.0
Cains from terms of trade            -11.3         35.2    43.4       -      -4.7      -8.7           -            -      -1.2      -2.0
Gross domestic income                333.4        405.0   413.4   384.5   401.7       420.5          0.9        100.0    98.8      98.0
Imports (including NFS)                308.2        311.6   292.6   281.3   296.1       296.4        -1.2          73.2    72.9      69.1
Exporto  (import capacity)             226.2        266.7   224.8   221.9   255.7       294.6          2.5         57.7    62.9      68.6
Consumption                            337.3        327.6   360.4   359.6   354.1       333.5          0.4         93.5    87.1       77.7
Investment                              78.0        104.6    99.0    84.3    90.3        93.1        -2.9          21.9    22.2       21.7
Domes-ti  savings                       -4.0         77.4    53.0    24.9    47.6        87.0          3.0          6.5    11.7       20.3
National savings                         4.6         85.8    56.6    39.8    60.4         97.6         3.3          10.4    14.9      22.7
MERChANDISE TRADE                                    Current US$ million                                           As percentage of Total
Impor ts
Cousumer goods                        53.7         76.0    79.5    90.9   102.0       111.4        10.0          41.5    40.6      41.0
Intermediate goods (ear, fuels)       28.0         43.0    42.8    53.7    59.7        66.6        11.6          24.5    23.7      24.5
Fuels and lubricants                   2.0         15.5    23.1    20.1    23.6        14.9        -1.0           9.2      9.4      5.5
Capital goods                         29.2         39.3    44.8    47.0    58.2         72.1       16.4          21.4    23.1      26.6
Miscellaneous                          3.0          5.9      6.6     7.5      8.0        6.5         2.5           3.4     3.2       2.4
Total merchandise imports (c.i.f.) 115.9          179.7   196.8   219.2   251.5       271.5        10.9         100.0   100.0    100.0
lopor to
Sugar                                 16.2         30.5    52.9    28.0    26.8        26.7        -3.3          40.8    36.6      28.9
Clothing                               2.2          9.0    13.3    15.3    18.8        20.6        23.0          22.3    25.6      22.3
Electrical components                  2.5          4.3     4.7      6.9      8.2       18.9       44.8          10.0    11.2      20.4
Other                                  9.5         17.4    17.3    18.5    19.5        26.3        10.9          26.9    26.6      28.4
Total merchandise exports (f.o.b.)  30.4           61.2    88.2    68.7    73.3        92.5        10.9         100.0   100.0    100.0
1976 s 100
Goods sod NFS trade indices
Eiport price inde                     47.1         87.4   109.9   100.0   105.8       113.7         6.8
Import price inde-                    49.3         77.8    89.0   100.0   107.9       117.6        10.9
Terms of trade indes                  95.5        112.3   123.5   100.0    98.1        96.7        -3.7
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                          Annual data at 1976 prices and exchange rate
Agricoltore                             44.4         39.1    38.1    40.7    42.0        38.0        -0.7          11.8    11.7       9.9
Industry b_/                            59.4         54.6    60.4    70.1    71.5        77.0         9.0          20.3    19.9      20.1
Services a/                            196.2        241.2   230.9   233.8   246.7        267.5         2.6         67.9    68.4      70.0
Total GDP factor cost              300.0        334.8   329.4   344.6   360.2       382.5         3.4         100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE c/                                     Annual data at current US$ million                           A. percentage of GDP
(Central Government) d 
Current receipts                        51.8         87.8   110.2   117.0   136.7       167.2        17.5          30.4    31.4      32.6
Gurrent eapendituren                    46.9         77.0    85.3   105.8   127.7       142.5        16.6          27.5    29.3      27.8
General Government                       4.9         10.8    24.9    11.2       9.0        .7          -            2.9      2.1     -
Central Government cap. e-peod. e/       9.5         18.4    24.0    30.3    41.3        31.5        14.3           7.9     9.5       6.2
Savings, consolidated public sector    ..             6.4    23.4    11.3    10.9        27.7          _            2.9     2.4       5.4
Capital expend., cons. public sector   ..            17.0    23.8    30.7    42.0        32.5       ',7.7           8.0     9.7       6.4
DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT                   As percentage of total             SELECTED INDICATORS                    1965-70    1975-77
PROGRAM AND FINANCING                                   Actual       - Est.             (average for period shown)
FY77/78      FY78-79
Agricolture, forestry and fishing                         5.1           4.0             Average ICOR                             2.75*      6.37
Miniog and quarrying                                       -             -              Import elasticity                        1.06-    -0.30
Masufacturing and p-oces-ing                              4.4           9.0             Marginal do-meatic  avirgs rate          ..         0.16
Other                                                    90.5          87.0             Marginal national s-vings rate           ..         0.23
Total e-pendit-res                                  100.0         100.0             *  1967-70,  **  1966-70
efinancing
Public sector savings                                  26.0          85.2
Extorsal sources                                       28.1          41.5
Other                                                  45.9         _26.7
Total fi-ancing                                       100.0         100.0
Total labor force
T'housands         7. of total      Growth rate                    91$              7. of average
1970        19T7    1970    1977                              1970        1977       1970        1977
Agriculture                            13.6          9.8    16.5    11.2          -4.6                3265       4286        89.6        104.2
Industry  b/                           24.4         18.7    29.6    21.3         -3.7                2434        3823        66.8        93.0
Services   /                           44.3         59.1    53.9    67.5           4.2                4429       4174       121.5        101.5
Total/Average                        8-2.3       87 76   10o.0   100 O          0 9                 3645       4112       100.0        100.0
o/  The national accounts presented here include  -evised estimates of tourist eapenditur-s.  See
footnote in paragraph 15.
b/ Includos mining, manufacturing, construction and elactrioity, gae, and water.
/I Fiscal year ending Slaroh 31.
d/  Includes National Insurance System and Spacial Funds administered by the Central Gpvernment.
e Includes capital transfers to rest of public sector.



-21-                                                                     AKNEX I
Page r f 5
BARBADOS
BALANCE OF PAYHNMS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AID DEBT
(US$ aillion at current prices)
Actual                  Est.
1974    1975    1976    1977        i7i
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS */
Exports (including NFS)                          212.1   221.1   221.9   273.1    340.0
Imports (including NFS)                          236.2   257.8   281.3   319.4    348.5
Resource balance (X-M)                           -24.1   _36.7  _59.4   -46.3    _Z8 S
Factor -ervices (net)                               -      -1.4      2.2    _1.8        -
Interest on public debt                          (-2.5)  (-2.3)  (-1.9)  (-1.9)   (_3.2)
Other (net)                                       (2.5)   (0.9)   (4.1)   (0.1)   ( 3.2)
Current tranefers (net)                            7.0      7.2    12.7    15.9       17.5
Balance on current account                       -17.1   -30.    -4.5   -32.         -11.0
Net public disbursemento                           0.9    -0.2       3.9    16.9      12.5
Gross disbursements                               (2.1)   (1.5)   (5.7)  (23.9)   (16.9)
Amortization                                     (-1.2)  (-1.7)  (-1.8)  (-7.0)   (-4.4)
Net private sector investment                      5.9      5.3      6.2     4.7        6.0
Gapitsl transactions n.e.i                         9.8    12.0    15.1    17.8        20.3
Changes in reserves C-increase)                    0.5   -16.2    19.3    -7.2    -27.8
(GTs  million)
GRANT AND LOAN COtlMIThENTS                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                          Actual                 Est.
(officia1 grant  nd Srant-like)                                                                                                                     1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
+ (public md. & long-tern loans)
IbRD                                              _        -        -       -        9.0              Public debt
IDA                                                                                   -                 Outstanding debt at end period            26.7    26.3    30.0    46.0    58.5
Other multilateral                               9.1      2.3      9.7    12.5                          Outstanding debt at beginning             25.8    26.7    26.3    30.0    46.0
Governments (bilateral)                           -       3.0       -     10.0        _               Interest on public debt                      2.5    .2.3       1.9     1.9      3.2
Suppliers                                        1.6       -        -        -        -               Rep-ymYnt on public debt                     1.2      1.7      1.8     7.0      4.4
Private banks                                     -        -       1.5      5.7     10.0              Total public debt service                    3.7      4.0      3.7     8.9      7.6
B-rds                                             _        -        -        -        -               Other debt service (net)                     ..
Public loans n.e.l.                               -        -        -        -        -               Tota1 debt service (net)                     ..
Total public M 6 LT loans                       10.7      5.3    11.2    28.2       19.0
Outstanding and disbursed
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                                               as of Deceber 31, 1978               Public debt service                          1.7      1.8      1.7      3.3     2.2
(repayable in foreign currency)                                  UBS oil.            Percent            Total debt service                           *-       *-       *-       -       *
Total debt service plus foreign
IBRD                                                                -                 _                 investment                                 ..
IDA
Other multiloteral                                                10.2              17.4              Average terms of public debt
Gov-rnoocts                                                      22.6               38.6              Interest at % prior year                     9.7      8.6     7.2      b.3      7.0
Suppliers                                                         0.8                1.4              Amortization as % prior year                 4.7     6.4      6.8    23.3       9.6
Private banks                                                    24.9               42.6
blads                                                               -                 -               IBRD debt outstanding & disbursed             -        -
Public debts n.e.i.                                                 -                 -               IBRD as % public debt outs. & die.
Total public M & LT loans                                        58.               100.1              IBRD so % public debt outotanding
od disbursed service
IDA debt outstanding & disbursed
IDA as % public debt outs. & die.            -        -        -        -       -
IDA as 7. public debt outstanding
and disbursed service
o/  Thb  balance of payments presented hero include revised  otimatos of tourist erpenditures.  See footnote in paragraph 15.
b/ Perc nt cf esports of goods and NFS net uf factor sorvicso.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of February 28, 1979
US$ million
Loan                                                           Amount (less cancellation)
No.      Year       Borrower           Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1642-BAR  1979      Barbados           Education               9.0       -       9.0
Total                                      9.0      -        9.0
of which has been repaid                 _                   -
Total now outstanding                      9.0      -        9.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of February 28, 1979
None.
C.   Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 1642-BAR   Barbados Education Project:  US$9.0 Million Loan of
December 29, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan was signed on December 29 and became effective on the
same day. The project is progressing well. The project implementation
unit has been staffed and started the execution of the project. All school
sites for the first phase of the project have been acquired and the design of
project schools is progressing according to schedule.



- 23 -
ANNEX III
BARBADOS - TOURISM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Identification                          04/12/75
(ii)  Prefeasibility                          06/30/75
(iii)  Feasibility Studies complete             07/31/78
(b)  _rject Preparation Agencies
(i) Ministry of Tourism
(ii) Ministry of Finance and Planning
(iii) Caribbean Development Bank
(c)  Appraisal Mission Departure                   09/18/78
(d)  Completion of Negotiations                    03/09/79
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                    07/31/79
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
Thie Government has agreed that:
(a) the existing road through the project site will be closed aLnd
tthe traffic will be diverted to the project bypass road as
soon as the bypass road is completed (para. 35(c));
(b)  approval of CDB's loan by its Executive Board will be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 38);
(c) a project unit would be set up within the Ministry of Tourism
to execute the project. The project unit would include a Project
Manager, an engineer, an accountant and a procurement officer. Key
staff, of the project unit will be appointed by June 30, 1979; their
qualifications and terms and condition of employinent would be satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 39);



- 24 -
ANNEX III
(d) the enactment of legislation acceptable to the Bank creating
the Corporation will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 43), and future changes in the organization plan of the
Corporation would require Bank approval (para. 43);
(e) overall responsibility for establishing policy and reviewing
village management performance would be the responsibility of
a Board of Directors which is to be appointed by the Government.
At least one hotel or apartel operator from Heywood Village
would be appointed to the Board of the Corporation and the
majority of the Board members would be drawn from the private
sector (para. 44);
(f) authority for management of the village would be delegated to a
General Manager. Other key officials of the Corporation would
include a Food and Beverage Manager, a Financial Manager and
a Marketing Manager. The employment and terms and conditions
of employment of these officials would require Bank approval
(para. 45); and
(g) terms and conditions of the lease agreements with the hotel and
apartel operators and with the concessionaires would be acceptable
to the Bank (para. 49).



6   80-                    70'
North Point                                                                   -   ATLANTC 
OCEAN~~~
-q              ~~~0 400
CRABHILLL                                                                                                                   0  KMS.    400
.w'/ -'\-04A                    4       te@2. '       DOMINICAN  MILES
$                       ~~~~~~~PIE CORNER                                 2'             HAITI,      RP   URORC                  0
ST    LU      YJAMAICA                                                                  t,
- w(  __-    //\               00        X  :            0 Caribbean  Sea                             ^fARADOS
(0CL I N K E IT T   , -/ _ ( \ ; 0 0 y03  -            _                                   P A N A ,M A                                         1 0-
SOUTH  AMERICA
70'
HEYWODS.           /
WEAGN~~~~~~I L
WN T. P|ETER                                                BEMILLEPLAINE
=~~~~~~~~~ILB s+MS %                               nD   :D     .ff 0E0          
: 000 4 0 i 0 | t. NILLABY / k CATTL9t' :BA>5KBA 0 OX 0; 0 000 0 0 '0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CATEWSBAHH
n 4jf )BA                                                 STBJOSE
0 :0000; ttit;4 /WELCHMAN   v<0000; t  0
=mWN tProjet LocationHN
0~~~~~~~~aspec slouch boundares
MAJR ROADOS
PAURISH PDROJECT
PA ITRISHTIOUNAL OI-IAE        S0                                                                         
-*-   IN A   L      D                                             O        1
:    MILES






IBRD- 14044
65' d30           >---., RTNdThis map h                     e pepe p ,p by the Wol Bank'-ssta-ff1 clsicoly for the convenie.ce                                                   BARRBADOS                                       JANUARY 1979
. ATINIQe                 ftheredeofthrpott which it is ttahed  e eno. d a- on- d edt
0  100'    ?10      LFooeIbooderies show  s- thic map do sot-iply, on the per of the World Rash ad,it                                                                   ToURISM    PROJECT
o,      100      200    z                         affiliates-, soy dgmootsothe legal tatcs f any-territory orop endertemootor
Xa 0 a0 o'o                              -pt {<)7u;KClf -h bondonos                                                                                           Heywoods  Holiday Village
Q     Mu.         z. M1ADQt                              0       20       40                50       1 00                                                                        Development Plan
/ST,VINCENT    t
; ribbreom               'f,V.K.) B~1e.ld; >                                  iMETERS
>,4 Hotels
Sorts  40 0        t. GRENADINES                      O             100          200           300                                                                             Ap Apartels
j2e   tt-REr4AfJA   120  FEET                                                                   Cfcommon  buildings
JSGRENADA                                                                                                                                                                 Internal roads and paths
Kkobage- C7 riorto   3 2                                    <                                                                                          .t  rI Parking
0- : TRINLAo     '                                                                                                                                      'i' By-pass road
'-'-"21  ~~  To$AOO  ..                                                                 in"'~~~"  ~    ""   ""'-    ---_~---777          Transformers
Ni'*
VENEZUELA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pei-hto t
C~
Sports center
~~~~T    ~ ~       ~          ~ ~                 Qlaundry and-
G04                                                                                                                                             Maintenance1
r't1                                                                        M$                                                      e1
teor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0-'>~~~~H                                                      9~
Clygro            cenr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ytoj~~4i                                                   d~; 
0                                                                                                                                                                 ZZ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '






IB RD   14045
7    ~ ~ ~ 5          1          9 R                 ho,s,  oe o~sdys.JANUARY   1979
6Atf                 so                 WsTdd-ph, B.k' oepie.'deby th. 
C A                                               ~~~~~~the oee,scof th. red-r of
S                            h  ~-  ~,~ i,, 1-d.BA  RBADOS
1R09V     RI. Vissssst  OA59A~~O          hood. 'e , ,  hoosetie'A h.                                                                                                       TOURISM              PROJECT
t K    d       ~        Wzd Bok lod, to ,fhhete, coY
to~so5s he 1.geJcO*5t0 o
N                        osy ternsosy or esy en~~~do--OO                                                                                                  Speightstown  By-Pass Road
orecpoo  f s-h ho-deoies
T cssdie
Gmd1         A8I (        1 
TRIRIdAR ANb: TBA"O
BR               I T~~~FRINIDAD     1
63'00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
9Y-PA9D ROAD,( {PRMY;LL~I 
EXID7I"OMAJ)R ROAD
T6WK CENTRAL ARM                                                                                                                                                V I A"
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g   j"Vsko                                                                    -k~BVV 3r 3
BUILT'UP ARBAS                 -~~.O~s-                                                 ~                                                                              5~3tO ~O M
--to    CONTOURS BR FEITI'  .    oN sA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ~ ~   ~~~~lU.-IF~~~~i ~UU   v
MA4H ~ ~ ~~~~~-                                                                                                                     



