CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1685 BAR
Loan Agreement
(Tourism Project)
between
BARBADOS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 27, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1685 BAR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1979, between BARBADOS (herein-
after called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC-
TION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Condi.tions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Heywoods Village" means the Heywoods Village referred
to in Part A (1) of the Project;
(b) "Corporation" means the Barbados Tourism Investment
Corporation to be established pursuant to Section 3.07 of this
Agreement;
(c) "respective project ministries" means with respect to:
(i) Part B of the Project, the Borrower's Ministry of Commu-
nications and Works; and (ii) all other Parts of the Project,
the Borrower's Ministry of Caribbean Affairs, External Trade,
Industry, Aviation and Tourism (hereinafter called Ministry of
Tourism);
(d) "Project Unit" means the unit to be established pursuant
to Section 3,02 of this Agreement;
(e) "apartel" means an apartment hotel;
(f) "project participant" means an operator of a hotel or
apartel under the Project; and


﻿- 2 -
(g) "Corporation's organization plan" means the organization
plan for the Corporation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loau
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the respective project ministries with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish in its Min-
istry of Tourism a project unit satisfactory to the Bank which
shall oversee the execution of the Project, sugervise all project
design and construction and coordinate project activities of the
respective project ministries.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint capable persons to manage
the Project Unit including a project manager, an engineer, an
accountant and a procurement officer, all of whom shall be persons
whose qualifications and experience and terms and conditions of
employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. The project manager, engineer and accountant shall
be appointed no later than June 30, 1979 and the procurement
officer no later than September 30, 1979.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants (including marketing consultants to assist
in the preparation and the strategic design and promotional
aspects of a marketing program for the Project, and as the Bor-
rower and the Bank shall determine, in the execution of said
program). The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment (including terms of reference) of the consultants
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the marketing program to
be sent to the Bank for its approval no later than March 31,
1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The 3orrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project (including the annual accounts of the Project Unit
audited by independent auditors acceptabl3 to the Bank), its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the t2nefits derived and to be derived from
it, its views on the possible future sale of the whole or part
of Heywoods Village in the form of shares or otherwise to Barba-
dians without jeopardy to the Project's objectives, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish a statutory
corporation in a form and with powers, responsibilities, organiza-
tion, resources and policies satisfactory to the Bank to manage
Heywoods Village and all common buildings and facilities provided
therein.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that a majority of the members
of the Corporation's Board is drawn from the private sector and
that at least one hotel or apartel operator from Heywoods Village
is appointed as a member.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that neither the Borrower nor
the Corporation makes any changes in the Corporation's organiza-
tion plan without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall transfer to the Corpora-
tion as soon as possible after completion of construction under
Part A of the Project, the assets of Heywoods Village (excluding
that portion of the bypass road to be constructed by contractors),
the value of the Village assets being estimated to be about 34.0
million Barbados dollars.
(b) The Borrower shall also cause the Corporation to repay
to the Borrower the amounts of the loans received for the Project
from the Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank (excluding
any amounts allocated to the bypass road component), as if such
amounts, estimated to be about 21.5 million Barbados dollars,
constitute a loan from the Borrower to the Corporation. The
remaining amount of about 12.5 million Barbados dollars shall
be in the form of equity. Repayment of the loan so constituted
shall be in not more than 12 years (including 3 years of grace)
with interest at 10% per annum and shall be in Barbados dollars
with any foreign exchange risks being borne by the Borrower.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to
employ a General Manager, a Marketing Manager, a Financial Manager
and a Food and Beverage Manager, whose qualifications and experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment (including terms of


﻿- 6 -
reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The General Manager
shall be employed no later than January 1, 1981. Further provi-
sions relating to the Corporation are set out in Schedule 5
hereto.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to lease by January 1982 the hotels and apartels included in
the Project to capable Barbadians under leases with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The criteria for selecting
prospective lessees shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to grant,
under agreements satisfactory to the Bank, concessions to capable
persons for the provision of specified services under the Project.
It shall be a term of any taxi concession granted that the conces-
sionaire regularly provide and at reasonable cost for tourists
using Heywoods Village adequate transportation (including group
transportation) to and from Heywoods Village and the Borrower's
International Airport and the city of Bridgetown.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to lease
the beach market included in the Project on terms and conditions
that will enable it to be developed and promoted into an effective
handicraft production and marketing center.
Section 3.11. Upon completion of the portion of the bypass
road around Heywoods Village, the Borrower shall cause the exist-
ing highway running through the site of the Project to be closed
to through traffic and all through traffic to be diverted to the
bypass road constructed under the; Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall send to the Bank, no later
than December 31, 1979, its proposals (including a timetable)
for reorganizing and improving the Borrower's hotel training
school.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall ensure that any development
of land adjoining or near to Heywoods Village will be effected
in a manner consistent with sound town and country planning
concepts and with due regard to the requirements of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-7-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the respec-
tive operations and financial conditions of the Corporation.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿- 8 -
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Corpora-
tion and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to
require each project participant to have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year maintained and
audited in accordance with the Uniform System of Hotel Accounting.
The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to furnish to the Bank
annually a summary of the audited annual accounts and financial
statements of the project participants.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the law establishing the Corporation shall have been
amended, suspended, waived or repealed so as to materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project;
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of a loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been


﻿- 9 -
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (L) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
Section 5.01 hereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agt..ement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the approval by the Caribbean Development Bank of a loan
for the Project con-istent with the Borrower's obligations here-
under; and
(b) enactment of the law establishing the Corporation.
Section 6.02. The date July 26, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿. 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government Headquarters
Bay Street, St. Michael
Barbados
Cable address:                     Telex:
EXTERNALBAR                        WB 222
Barbados
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Bridgetown,
Barbados, as of the day and year first above written.
BARBADOS
By Is/ Harold Bernard St. John
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Nicolas Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) buildings and             3,360,000       70%
solar water
heating system
(b) bypass road                 530,000       60%
(2) Equipment (buildings             900,000       100% of foreign
and solar water heat-                         expenditures
ing system)                                   for directly
imported items
or 85% for
locally pro-
cured items
(3) Professional services            680,000       70%
(4) Marketing and tech-              860,000       100% of foreign
nical assistance                              expenditures
(5) Unallocated                    1,670,000
TOTAL          8,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of pa,rments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower -n goods or se ices,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdraw-
als, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
December 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth iia Lhe table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to assist the Borrower's tour-
ism development plan, consists of:
A.   (1) The construction and development at Heywoods, north of
Speightstown, of a holiday village for tourists includ-
ing the construction, furnishing and equipping of five
hotels and two apartels having a total of 308 guest
rooms which will be leased to Barbadian hotel and
apartel operators to manage.
(2) The construction, furnishing and equipping of common
buildings and facilities for the Heywoods Village
including an administration building, shopping area,
a central restaurant, meeting hall, beach market,
internal roads, parking, public access to the beach,
landscaping, utilities, solar hot water heating system,
a laundry, sports center, a central swimming pool,
nine-hole golf course, tennis courts and general main-
tenance facilities.
B.   The construction of a 1.8 mile bypass road along the eastern
boundary of Speightstown and Heywoods Village to rejoin the
existing highway at the northern end of Heywoods Beach.
C.   (1) Provision of consultants ' services for the Project
including preparation and execution of a marketing
program.
(2) Provision of central management of Heywoods Village.
(3) Establishment of a Project Unit.
Parts A and B of the Project are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1982 and Part C by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1982
through   August 1, 1993                     335,000
On February 1, 1994                               295,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                  Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                  6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                  7.00%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods required for the Project shall be grouped so as to
permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound
technical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Local Competitive Bidding and Force Account
1.   All civil works contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent as well as contracts for furniture and equip-
ment estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent shall be
awarded after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank; provided that the total cost of equipment so procured shall
not in the aggregate exceed $200,000 and the total cost of civil
works shall not in the aggregate exceed $500,000.
2.   The Borrower may carry out the following using its own
work force: (i) site clearance, diversion of existing utility
services and provision of temporary services; and (ii) the con-
struction of 0.8 miles portion of the bypass around Heywoods
Village.
C.   Regional Preference for Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Barbados and countries which are members of the Caribbean Commu-
nity including the Caribbean Common Market may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following four groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Barbados if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Barbados equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Barbados.


﻿- 18 -
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in
a country (other than Barbados) which is a party to
the treaty establishing the Caribbean Community
including the Caribbean Common Market and entitled
to preferential treatment thereunder.
(4) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group
C or group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C or group D bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C and group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A or group B bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
5.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 4
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group D, all group D bids
shall be finally compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
C, as determined under paragraph 3 above, after adding to the
c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each group D
bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount
equal to: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would actually be payable for the
importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for the
importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such
group D bid, if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group C bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest
evaluated bid from group D shall be selected.


﻿- 19 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower 's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications including design drawings, equipment and
furniture lists and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 20 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly infGrm the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Corporation
1.   The Corporation's functions shall include:
(a) granting of leases to hotel and apartel operators and
concessionaires;
(b) management and maintenance of common facilities and
grounds of Heywoods Village;
(c) co-ordinating operations of hotel and apartel operators
and concessionaires; and
(d) provision of central marketing, central purchasing,
financial guidance, training and quality control assis-
tance services to hotel and apartel operators and
concessionaires.
2.   The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have overall
responsibility for establishing policy and reviewing management
performance under the Project.
3.   The Corporation shall ensure that Heywoods Village is managed
efficiently and on a commercial basis and shall delegate its
management responsibilities and authority to the Corporation's
General Manager.
4.   The senior management of the Corporation shall consist of
the General Manager, a Food and Beverage Manager, a Financial
Manager and a Marketing Manager. The functions of the Corpora-
tion's senior management shall include the provision of technical
assistance and training to hotel and apartel operators and con-
cessionaires.
The Corporation shall provide suitable training for local
staff.
5.   The Corporation shall establish a Village Management Commit-
tee to provide a forum for the participation of hotel and apartel
operators and concessionaires in decision making in the operations
of the Project. The Chairman of the Village Management Committee
shall be the General Manager of the Corporation; its members -all
include the senior management of the Corporation, all hotel and
apartel operators and at least one representative of the conces-
sionaires.


