Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3c3 I  3 '1:Xt !81 1 ! '1   ii.  { t I h       Report No.  9722
13' PilL. N .   1':  11 '' .T:   '1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2065-KE)
JUNE 25, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter              =    0.39 inches
1 m - meter                    -    3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter             -    264 US gallons
1 bbl - barrel                 -    42 gallons
1 kg - kilogram                     2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer                    0.62 miles
1 km2 _ square kilometer       =    0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                      =    2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt                =    1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt                     1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour                1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour                1 million kilowatthours
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK       Central Bank of Kenya
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
MOE       Ministry of Energy (changed to MOERD in '84)
MOERD     Ministry of Energy & Regional Development
NOCK      National Oil Company of Kenya
NORAD     Norwegian Agency for Int'l. Development
PCIAC     PetroCanada International Assistance Corp.
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSA       Production Sharing Agreement
PSC       Production Sharing Contract



THE WORLD SANK                FOR OICAL USE ONLY
Washington, DC. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofrce of Ditecuv.CeGtwai
Opstatese, fvalutum
June 25. 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Kenya
Petroleum ExRloration Promotion Project (Loan 2065-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Loan 2065-
KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETRO_RELUM EXPLORATXON PROMOTION PROJECT
LOA -2065 KM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No,
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .                 ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  1
Background    ....  .         .  .  .  .  .    .1..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives &nd Description    . . . . . . . . . . .                  2
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
Project Description    . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . .                 2
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  3
Implementation of the Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  3
First Promotional Round    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
Aeromagnetic Survey    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
Legal and Financial Issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
PetroCanada International Assistance Corporation   . .                 5
Second Promotion Meeting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
Training    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  6
Equipment and Material Purchases   . . . . . . . . . .                 6
Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 6
Performance of Consultants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  6
Performance of Contractors    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  7
Performance of the Borrower   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  8
Performance by the Bank  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   a
Oil Company Acreage Activities    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  9
Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  10
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                              12
Introduction    . . . . I .          I . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12
Project Design    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 12
Implementation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 13
First Promotional Round    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                13
Second Promotional Round  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 14
Training  . . . . . . . . . .                            . . .        14
Equipment and Materals. . . .    .    . . .    14
Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                14
Negotiations    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 14
This document has a restricted disribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of ContenLt (Cont'd)
Economic  Impact   ....                              .           .  .     .   .   .    .    .   .   .   .    .    .   .    .   .      .      15
Comments                 ....  .                   .   .    .   .    .   .    .  .     .   .    .  .     .  .     .  .     .  .       .      15
PART  1II:    PROJECT  PROFILE  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                                                  17
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                  17
Project   Timetable                        .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  17
Loan  Disbursements                            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                       18
Project  Implementation                                 . . . . . .  .  . . .  . .  . .  . . .                                               is
Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                  19
Project   Costs                     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   19
Project  Financing                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                    19
Project Results    ....                              .           .  .    .    .   .    .   .    .  .     .   .    .   .    .   .      .      20
Direct   Benefits                        .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   20
Economic  Impact                         ....          .          .   .     .  .     .  .    .    .   .    .   .    .      .      20
Status  of Covenants   ....  .                                           .    .  .    .   .    .    .   .   .    .   .     .  .       .      20
Use  of  Bank  Resources    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                                             22
Staff   Inputs                 .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   22
Total  Staff  Weeks                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                    23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM XPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2065-KE
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project in Kenya, for which Loan 2065-KE in the
amount of US$4.0 million was approved on December 8, 1981. The loan was
closed on August 31, 1986, one year behind schedule. It was 96 percent
disbursed and the last disbursement was on November 26, 1986.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
(AF2IE) and the Technical Department of the Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's early
missions for the follow-up petroleum project, CR 1675-KE, and is based,
inter alia, on the President's Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2065-KE
EVALUATION ,LBRY
1.        Although international oil companies have been exploring for
petroleum in Kenya since 1954, no commercially exploitable hvdrocarbon
reserves have ever been identified. As of July 1, 1990, oil companies have
drilled a total of 12 exploratory holes and acquired several thousands of
kilometers of seismic data, both onshore and offshore. By 1980, only one
company had exploration rights and even it was not greatly enthusiastic
about the opportunities in Kenya. With the oil price shocks of the
seventies, Kenya's import bill for petroleum vas rising steadily, thus it
was appropriate to stimulate petroleum exploration investment by oil
companies in Kenya. It was felt that this could be accomplished by
promc-ing the open acreage starting by making a geological study of all of
Kenya, utilizing the seismic data acquired by companies in the past, and
incorporating the results of the wells which had been drilled. These data
would then be incorporated into a report which would be made available to
oil companies. Moreover, since the petroleum legislation and the model
contract used in Kenya were seriously out of date, it was expected that a
modernization of these legal documents plus a geological update would
stimulate a renewed era of petroleum exploration in the Republic.
2.        A loan of US$4.0 million was approved on December 8, 1981 to
attract oil companies to Kenya to supply the capital and the technical
expertise for exploration, and development of the country's petroleum
resources. This was to be accomplished by providing assistance to the
Ministry of Energy (MOE) to (i) promote prospective acreage to oil
companies, (ii) negotiate contracts, and (iii) monitor oil company
activities. In addition, the project aimed to strengthen MOE's analytical
capability through the financing of exploration, legal, accounting, and
aeromagnetic consultants; training; materials and equipment purchases; and
aeromagnetic survey and reprocessing of seismic data. Scheduled closing of
the loan was August 31, 1985, but it was extended until August 31, 1986, to
complete the work underway and to avoid a financing gap between LN 2065-KE
and the follow-up project, Cr 1675-KE.
3.        Under World Bank funding and according to World Bank Guidelines,
the MOE hired consultants and contractors as outlined above. The first
promotion meeting, which was held in Parls ln May 1982, was attended by 16
oil companies and resulted in some 14 reports being sold. Companies (Arco
and Texaco) undertook negotiations with the Government as a result of this
meeting and the just-enacted Petroleum Act. However, because of the
complexities of the new Petroleum Act, the negotiations dragged until late
February 1984, when the Government indicated that it wished to negotiate
all of its blocks according to a Productlon Sharing Contract (PSC). At
this point, the companies, in frustration, terminated negotiations because



- iii -
of lac% of progress.  In the interim, the aeromagnetic survey was flown and
interpreted, the results of which, along with the geological report, were
sufficiently interetiting that two companies, Amoco and Total, signed
agreements or almost half of the blocks in Kenya in early 1984. The second
promotion meeting was held in 1lairobi in September 1984 and was attended by
13 companies.
4.        As a result of this project and the efforts of the follow-up
project, Cr 1975-KE, in November 1989, a total of ten wells were drilled:
Block 2, 2 wells by Amoco; Block 3, 2 wells by Amoco; block 4, 1 well by
PCIAC; 3lock 9, 2 wells by Total; and Block 10, 3 wells by Amoco. Although
no oil and/or gas have been disco'vered to date, the information gleaned
from these wells has been sufficiently encouraging that companies continue
to explore for petroleum.
5.        The project was successful in accomplishing what it set out to
do, namely interest oil companies in exploring for petroleum in Kenya. A
number of oil companies conducted exploration campaigns including rather
extensive drilling. The project led to a follow-up project designed to
maintain the interest and momentum generated by the first project. As of
November l9t9, the total amount of money generated as revenue to the
Government from surface rentals plus the training levy from the oil
companies amounted to US$4,757,495. Added to this was the US$568,595
generated from the sales of the technical reports which amounted to
si%bstantially more than the US$4.0 million loan amount. In addition to
these funds, which went directly to the Government, was an estimated US$30
million (out of US$100 million gross expenditure), which was spent in
country for office and tousing, labor and local purchases of materials and
equipment.
6.        One of the greatest problems encountered during the
implementation of the project was delays in the submission of withdrawal
applicAtions by the borrower to the Bank for disbursement resulting in
delaye4 payments under the project.
7.        Although the overall response to the promotion effort was
satisfactory, a better attendance might have been realized if the promotion
meetings had been held in a venue more central to oil companies, for
example, Houston and/or London.
8.        The project was, however, effective in training financial
personnel and technical people such as geologists and geophysicists. The
Project Team coordinated with the MOE, to ensure that a well-rounded
training program was implemented.
9.        Finally, the basic information, acquired under the project and
the interpretations made therefrom, constitute a basic data base which can
be referred to and used in the future, regardless of the immediate outcome
of the exploration efforts. The f..ct that most of the contracts fo= the
blocks ultimately signed were concluded after the follow-up project
started, points out the timelessness of the data and the need to continue
the momentum which has been established.



PROJE.CT COMPLETION REPORT
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2065-KE
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identitv
1.        Name                      Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Loan Number          :LN 2065-KE
RVP Unit             : frica Region
Country                  Republic of Kenya
Sector                   Energy
Subsector                Petroleum
Bazkaround
2.        Kenya has a modest energy resource base which includes wood,
hydropower, geothermal and solar energy. Theoretical hydropower potential
has been estimated at 6,OOC MW of which less than 25 percent could be
developed economically. Geothermal potential has been proven in the range
of 100-200 MW of which only 15 MW were developed at the time of appraisal,
(45 MW currently on stream). No commercial petroleum resource has yet been
identified, although onshore and offshore sedimentary basins exist and
warrant further exploration. At the time of appraisal (1980) total energy
consumption approached 7 million tons of oil equivalent. Petroleum
products, largely processed domestically from imported crude, supplied
about 25 percent of the total energy used.
3.        Kenya's total land area is about 582,000 km2, the offshore has a
surface of 68,250 km2. Of the total, approximately 200,000 km2 are
considered prospective. At appraisal time, 1980, only 12 exploratory wells
had been drilled, or about one well in 16,000 km2, and only one consortium
of oil companies (composed of Cities Service, Union Oil and Marathon) was
operating in Kenya.
4.        Responsibility for petroleum exploration and exploitation rested
with the Technical Division of the Ministry of Energy (MOE) which was
established by the Government in December 1979. In the initial phase of
the project, the MOE was the implementing agency; however, in 1984 the
National Oil Company of Kenya, NOCK, was established and then the
implementation tasks were transferred without consultation with the Bank,
from MOE to NOCF. and a new project manager nominated also without prior
consultation.   After review, however, it was determined that these actions
would not impair the borrower's ability to implement the project.
5.        In order to attract oil companies to Kenya, it was necessary to
gather together all of the known geology and the results of drilling and
seismic effort, and prepare a comprehensive report which discussed the
geology within the framework of modern concepts. Moreover, there was also



- 2-
a need to update the legislation and to design a modern model contract
which would be acceptable to the oil industry and favorable to the
Government. The results of the data acc,uisition and legal changes coild
then be brought to the attention of international oil companies by means of
a promotion effort.
Project ObJectives and Description
6.        Project Objectives:  The project was designed to assist the
Government in attracting foreign oil companies and negotiating exploration
contracs. Specifically, the project would:
(a) strengthen the technical capability of MOE in formulating and
supervising a petroleum exploration program;
(b) finance an aeromagnetic survey over the south-east, east and
northwestern part of the country, the results of which could
open up these areas for exploration; and
(c) provide assistance to MOE in promoting and offering prospective
acreage to interested oil companies in two rounds of bidding, in
negotiating contracts and, subsequently, in monitoring the
activities of operating companies.
7.        Project DescriRtion:  The Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (LN 2065-KE) provided for:
(a) Exploration Consultants to assist MOE in the compilation,
evaluation and reprocessing of existing data pertaining to
hydrocarbon exploration in Kenya and integration of all new data
generated; 30,000 line-km of aeromagnetic surveying;
reprocessing of about 2,500 line-km of existing seismic data;
processing of Landsat imagery for geostructural interpretation;
Special studies in paleontology and/or sedimentology, and
geochemical and log analyses as necessary; preparation of
reports on the national petroleum potential for sale to
interested companies; and supply of a resident exploration
advisor.
(b) Leeal Consultants to review the Oil Production Act and the Oil
Production Regulations and to undertake revisions thereto in the
light of currently prevailing practices in the petroleum
industry and to prepare model petroleam exploration and
production licenses and agreements.
(c) Negotiations and monitoring assistance by the preparation of
tender documents, promotion of offered blocks, and evaluation of
bids for acreage, negotiation of --).roleum exploration and
production agreements, and the administration of exploration and
production agreements and monitoring of companies' activities.



-3 -
(d) Uqounting Consultants for the design, establishment and
operation of an accounting system within the MOE to enable it to
monitor the expenditures incurred by petroleum companies.
(e) Training Establishment and implementation of a program for
training outside Kenya of selected staff of the MOE in
techniques, management, contract aeministration and other
activities relating to petroleum exploration, and on-the-job
training of MOE staff in all aspects of petroleum exploration
and production administration.
Project Design and Organization
8.        The project was appraised in March 1981.  Since it was
essentially a technical assistance project, no Staff Appraisal Report was
issued. It was proposed that a PPF for US$300,000 be granted to finance
preliminary work by exploration and legal consultants. The results of this
Phase I, provided the foundation for the next phase of the project.
Initially, the Government had hoped that much of Phase I could be financed
by hlORAD, the Norwegian Agency for International Development. However,
when it became clear that The Geophysical Company of Norway, Geco, would be
undertaking the study to determine what additional data collection would be
needed and that Geco would be the company to undertake the job of
collecting the data, the Bank could not support the involvement of NORAD
beyond the supply of one or two experts to bs issigned to the MOE. Because
of the potential involvement of NORAD in the project and the various
discussions which took place, the project was delayed by some six to nine
months.
9.        In late February 1981 the MOE chose exploration and legal
consultants who would undertake the studies under Phase I. In late July
the Government of Kenya requested an increase of the PPF in the amount of
US$700,000 which was used for the financing of the compilation and review
of existing exploration data, including strategy definition and report
preparation.
10.       In June 1981, the Government requested that the IBRD loan be
changed to an IDi Credit arguing that the project was purely technical
assistance and should be on IDA terms rather than a loan. In a memorandum
dated August 6, 1981, the Bank agreed to this change. However, on October
16, 1981, the Bank reversed its position citing that the uncertainty of the
availability of IDA funds precluded the processing of this project as a
credit. The PPF advances, although gran:ed as a credit, were to be repaid
from the IBRD loan.
11.       In the latter part of October 1981, the loan was negotiated and
on December 8, 1981 was approved for US$4.0 million.
Implementation of the Prolect
12.       During the early stages of the project, it was necessary to
undertake some of the work before the loan became effective. The
exploration consultants and the legal consultants were hired under the PPF.



- 4-
Accounting consultants were recruited to develop a new accounting system
and to train local Kenyans.
13.       First Promotional Round:  During the first quarter of 1982, the
work was sufficiently underway that plans were made for the first promotion
meeting which was held in Paris May 11-13, 1982. The promotion report,
wbich was prepared by the exploration consultants, w&s sold for US$25,000
and was purchased by fourteen companies. In addition to the exploration
repoit, a revised model. contract was made available at a slightly later
date. The Paris meetings were attended by about sixceen companies, several
of which expressed interest in Kenyan exploration. The original deadline
date of July 15, 1982 was changed to October 1, 1982 at the request of the
oil companies. In all, some six blocks lying along the coastal area, were
offered. It was acknowledged that with the ongoing evaluation work,
including an aeromagnetic survey, additional blocks would be identified and
offered to the industry during another promotional campaign. During the
first quarter, the exploration consultants installed a resident
explorationist, who assisted the Ministry and the Project Implementation
Unit in its dealings with contractors, companies and the Bank.
14.       After the promotion meetings in Paris, the geological evaluation
of the i- of the country got underway. This included continued work by
the explt,&ation consultant, the reprocessing of about 1,500 line km of
seismic data in the original six blocks which were offered, the acquisition
of the aeromagnetic data east of the Rift Valley and the northern part of
the country west almost to the border with Uganda, and the processing and
interpretation of Landsat imagery by a remote sensing consultant. The
seismic reprocessing was designed to be made available to those companies
interested in blocks in the eastern portion of the country.
15.       Aeromagnetic Survey:  The aeromagnetic survey started in mid
June 1982 consisted of about 48,800 line-km of data which were acquired by
an aeromagnetic acquisition contractor. During -1,is time, Ministry
personnel were assigned to the acquisition crew as well as the data
processing and interpretation in the offices of the contractor and the
aeromagnetic interpretation and quality control consultant as a means to
train MOE personnel in potential field techniques. The conduct of the
aeromagnetic survey was supervised by a quality control team supplied by
the geophysical consultant.
16.       Legal and Financial Issues:  On September 9, 1982, a conference
was held in London between representatives of the World Bank, the
accounting consultants, the Attorney General's Chambers in Kenya and a
number of petroleum companies. During this meeting the companies were
asked to comment on the draft amendments to the Kenyan Income Tax Act which
was circulated under cover of a letter from the si-nistry of Energy dated
August 13, 1982. The companies had a number of comments which, improved
the final amendment.
17.       Despite the fact that two oil companies, after protracted
negotiations, were eager to sign for an exploration block as a result of
the first promotion exercise, the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), was slow to



-5-
address issues of concern to oil companies w:iich probably explains the
unusual delays In reaching agreements with companies leading to some
frustration on the part of some companies. This delay could well have been
due to CBK's involvement with Kenya's balance of payments problems at the
time, which in turn would have made CBK leery of seemingly non-standard
currency arrangements. These issues were as follows:
(a) CBK's requirements concerning the opening and operating of
external accounts, and the direct payment of foreign suppliers,
out of their own exploration money;
(b) Repatriation of investments and profits or capabilliy to retain
overseas the income out of the sale of oil after contractual and
income tax payments are made;
(c) CBK's required authorization of contracts between exploring oil
companies and foreign subcontractors;
(d) Import requirements according to the Customs and Excise Act;
(e) Taxation framework.
18.       In late February 1984, the Government unilaterally decided to
change the type of agreement under which it would be willing to agree to
exploration and production activities. Apparently the Government
mistakenly thought that under the Production Sharing Agreement (PSA), the
points above would not be issues.
19.       PetroCanada International Assistance Corn:  On April 29, 1983,
the MOE was approached by PetroCanada International Assistance Corporation
(PCIAC) to finance on a grant basis, the following items which could
ultimately contribute to the promotion effort. PCIAC would meet the
foreign costs of the program and MOE would meet the local costs.
(a) To acquire about 300 line-km of seismic data In Block 1 and
(b) To acquire approximately 400 line-km of seismic data in Block 4
which should firm up a drilling location in the block in which
it was hoped there was a good potential for a gas discovery on
the Garissa structure.
20.       As it turned out, PCIAC only acquired the seismic data in Block
4, virtually duplicating coverage acquired previously. A well, KenCan No.
1, was drilled on the Garissa structure which encountered a tight Karroo
formation and was abandoned, thus essentially condemning the Karroo
possibilities in that block. From this point on, PCIAC supplied only one
or two people to assist the MOE in petroleum supply and distribution and
engineering expertise.
21.      S9,-nd Promotion Meeting:  The second promotion meeting took
place in Nairobi in mid-September 1984 and was attended by 13 companies,
after which 12 reports were sold. As a result of these meetings, a number



- 6-
of petroleum companies entered into negotiations and eventually over half
of the offered block3 were taken by two companies.
22.       Triinin:  A number of Kenyans were trained as a result of the
project. On-the-job training was offered through the accounting,
exploration and aeromagnetic consultants and the aeromagnetic contractor
which was considered to be invaluable. At the same time, short courses and
seminars were arranged so that technical personnel were kept abreast of all
the latest thinking and developments in their fields. In addition, longer
term training and education abroad was made available through the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA); PCIAC; and NORAD. Unfortunately,
once trained, individuals became "fair game" for companies wishing to hire
trained and experienced nationals, thus leaving the implementation agency
short of technical expertise. The training philosophy under the project
was always to keep training relatively general until the need for more
specialization arose. In this way, if no oil and gas reserves were
discovered, the Government would not be left with personnel with unusable
expertise. Technical people trained under this project are presently
contributing in a meaningful fashion to the conduct of the follow-up
project.
23.       Eguipment and Material Purchases:  The following material was
purchased under the loan: five trucks, three typewriters, one Xerox
machine, one diazol copier and miscellaneous office items.
24.       Procurement:  World Bank guidelines were followed in all phases
of the project. The following discusses the procedures used for each of
the main items in the project:
(a)  Iploration. Geophysical. Legal and Accounting Consultants-
Terms of Reference for the work were drawn up and the request
for tender was sent to firms on a short list prepared by the
Borrower. Based upon an evaluation criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, the relevant consultants were chosen.
(b) Aeroma2netic Contractor - Limited International Tendering was
used to obtain the aeromagnetic contractor. Procedures used
were in accordance with Bank guidelines.
(c) Seismic Reprocessing Contractor - A geophysical firm was chosen
by Limited International Tendering to do the reprocessing. To
short-cut the complicated local procedures, it was subsequently
agreed that the reprocessing contract would be, in effect, a
subcontract through the exploration consultant.
Performance of Consultants
25.       The Government employed a number of consultants to advise it on
the various aspects of the promotion including exploration, legal and
financial. The performances of the various consultants are as follows:
(a) Legal Consultants - The legal consultants were hired to assist
the Government in drawing up a model contract and to draft



-7-
legislation rhich would allow a favorable climate for petroleum
exploration. The firm did a reasonable job in revising the
Petroleum Act, the petroleum regulations and the model
contract. It was not, however, involved in the
drawing up of the Production Sharing Contract.
(b)  Accounting and Auditing Consultants - The accounting consultants
were hired to devise a reasonable accounting system by which oil
companies could work and report their expenditures and eventual
credits against their present commitments and future production.
The firm did a merely adequate job which could have been
improved had it addressed the currency control issue early on.
Once the PSC was adopted, the consultants' contract was allowed
to expire. Although annual audits of the project's accounts
were frequently late, this was probably due to the delay in the
commissioning of the work by the Government.
(c)  Exploration ConsultancX - The exploration consultants were hired
to prepare an up-to-date geological report which would be made
available for oil companies' purchase and use. The consultants
were responsible for technical training of local counterpart
staff. The firm did an excellent job in preparing the promotion
reports and conducting the meetings with oil companies. When
the resident explorationist resigned, the firm moved swiftly to
replace him.
(d)  Aeromagnetic consultants - The aeromagnetic consultants were
hired to supervise the acquisition of the aeromagnetic data and
perform quality control functions. In addition to the quality
control function, the consultants interpreted the magnetic data.
This interpretation was made available to the exploration
consultants for inclusion in the promotion report. The firm did
not do a particularly good job of interpretation, although the
quality control aspect of its work was commendable. The
interpretation of the magnetic data would seem more academic
than useful for petroleum exploration. The interpretation work,
which was commissioned by Amoco through another firm, should
have been more expertly done.
(e)  Landsat Interpretation - The Landsat consultants were hired to
supply the remotely sensed images and to make a broad geological
interpretation which would be made available to the exploration
consultant. The remote sensing company did a very credible job
in the supply, processing and interpretation of the Landsat
imagery.
Performa-ne of Contractors
26.       In order to acquire some of the basic data, such as aeromagnetic
and seismic, the Government entered into contractual agreements with
geophysical acquisition and processing companies.



-8-
(a) Aeromagnetic Data Acquisition - The acquisition contractor
acquired approximately 48,800 line km of aeromagnetic data. Any
delays in the survey were probably due to MOE's slow approach to
supplying necessary authorizations, information and data. The
contractor's work was of good quality and the relationship with
the quality control consultants seems to have been very good.
(b) Seismic Data Reprocessing - The geophysical processing
contractor reprocessed approximately 1500 line-km of seismic
data. Although work was well done, it could have been better
with more knowledgeable supervision on the part of the
exploration consultant.
Performance of the Borrower
27.       The MOE reacted very quickly during the period when the project
was being prepared and appraised; however, during the phase of negotiations
with oil companies, the MOE, and other Government entities could have shown
grenter flexibility in the interest of concluding contracts with companies
considering that geological potential of the country is rather modest.
MOE's appointment and subsequent training of the accounting officer,
greatly facilitated, albeit temporarily, the conduct of the project through
timely approval and payment of invoices. Unfortunately this accounting
officer left the MOE and the approval of invoices slowed down appreciably.
Although a number of invoices for various consultants and contractors were
needlessly delayed resulting in an endless barrage of enquiries, the worst
case was when a number of the exploration consultant's invoices were held
up resulting in a substantial amount of money being cancelled from this
project. This caused a short-fall in the follow-up project due to the
latter project having to cover the delayed invoices.
28.       In spite of the fact that the first round promotion meeting took
place in May 1982, it was not until over two years later that an agreement
was signed with an oil company. Indeed the two companies with whom the
Government was negotiating, eventually gave up without signing a contract.
One factor contributing to this was an unexplained reluctance on the part
of the Government to sign with any company at that time as well as the
concerns pointed out in paragraph 17. In retrospect, it is now clear that
other companies were "in the background" waiting for these two companies to
give up and that the Government was aware of this. In addition, the
resident advisor, submitted his resignation due solely to the unnecessary
and protracted delays in coming to some sort of agreement with a company.
Performance by the Bank
29.       The World Bank and members of the project team were helpful in
inspiring enthusiasm amongst MOE personnel. The Bank was always prepared
to devote human resources to solve problems and assist the MOE, and later
NOCK, in supervising the project. The Bank could have been more forceful
in encouraging MOE to speed up negotiations and avoid prolonged delays.
The Bank also could have beien more perceptive in sensing the concession
type of agreement and been better prepared to assist with the preparation
of the model Production Sharing Agreement (PSA). In the later stages of



-9-
the project, internal human resource allocation constraints preciuded as
much supervision as was considered necessary by the project team.
30.       Although some components of the project were not directly
financed by the Bank, such as training, members of the project team were
constantly aware of the overall training picture to ensure that MOE and
NOCK personnel received a well rounded training program regardless of the
source of funding.
Oil Company Acreage Activities
31.       During the course of the project and as a result of the project,
the following companies were involved in Kenya;
(a)  Cities Service relinquished its acreage position it had in the
southern part of onshore and offshore Kenya, subsequent to its
merger with Occidental Petroleum.
(b)  Arco pulled out of i&.s negotiations in Block 2 with the
Government because it did not want further negotiations to
transpose their negotiated licenses to newly introduced PSC's
(c)  Texaco terminated their negotiations on Block 3 because of the
same reasons listed above in (b).
(4)  Amoco assumed Arco's and Texaco's place in Blocks 2 and 3 and
took a 6-month's option on Block 10 which it eventually
exercised. At the time of this writing, a total of 5 wells have
been drilled.
(s) Union Oil took up an offshore block, SOPL 5, after City
Services' withdrawal and drilled a well, Kofia No.1 and then
returned the acreage to the Government with a hope of taking up
Block No. 8. Negotiations on Block No. 8 were suspended
indefinitely due to low crude prices which were to determine the
profit oil sharing. Nevertheless, Union Oil took a two-year
non-exclusive permit over Blocks 7 and 8.
(f) Total signed an agreement for Block 9 and at the time of this
writing, a total of 3 wells have been drilled.
(g) Total. Texaco. Amoco and Marathon signed an agreement for Block
1 and are undertaking field and seismic surveys.
The oil companies' activities before the project seemed to have been spread
out over a much longer period of time and were concentrated in the coastal
region of the country. This project was instrumental in drawing the
attention of oil companies to other areas in Kenya where different, but
equally attractive, geological conditions were present. Equally important,
the project laid out the guidelines by which companies could construct
their bids and carry out business within Kenya. At the same time, oil
companies were under contract to perform a work program during a discreet



- 10 -
period of time monitored by representatives of the Government. Prior to
the project, this was not necessarily the case as time constraints were
rather flexible. The oil companies were greatly appreciative of the
overall knowledge of the technical personnel of NOCK and MOE. Moreover,
the aid and assistance offered to oil companies by the Government
institutions kept down expenses and sped up the operations markedly.
32.       Aside from the money which came directly to the Government in
the form of bonuses, rentals etc., a great deal of money, as much as US$100
million was spent by the oil companies in their exploration and drilling
campaigns by the end of 1990. Of this money, approximately 30 percent, or
US$30 million was spent directly in the country in the form of local goods
and services such as, rental of office space and homes, laborers for drill
rigs and seismic crews, fuel purchases, and miscellaneous local contractual
services. These funds had immediate effect on the economy and were
generated regardless of whether oil was found or not. If oil is found,
then the amount of money spent in the country would increase many times,
not to mention the revenues generated for the Government by the crude sale
itself.
33.       A follow-up promotion project, Petroleum Exploration Technical
Assistance project, Cr 1675-KE, is continuing the activities started in Ln
2065-KE.  The objectives of the follow-up project are to continue with the
initiatives of Ln 2065-KE and at the same time identify additional areas
which can be promoted to oil companies. Although it would appear that most
of the oil company exploration activity was confined to the follow-up
project, Cr 1675-KE, the genuine Interest of the companies in Kenya was
initiated by the results of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, LN
2065-KE. This dramatically illustrates the need for the follow-up project
which maintained the momentum established by the first project. Without
the project's having taken place, it is doubtful that the oil industry
would have been especially interested in exploring in Kenya. The project
financed acquisition and interpretation of data which enhanced the
prospectivity of the country to the oil industry. Doubtlessly, without the
Bank's involvement in the petroleum subsector in Kenya, petroleum
exploration in Kenya would have languished with seemingly no direction to
the overall effort. Even if no oil is found in the current effort, the
project has accomplished its objective by enticing oil companies to commit
to exploration expenditures in well over half of the prospective part of
the country. The data currently being acquired by oil companies will
eventually revert to the Government and will form a part of an
irreplaceable data base, which in the future, could be instrumental in
ultimately finding oil.
lessons Learned
34.       This project demonstrates that comprehensive technical report
setting out all of the latest geological, a geophysical and drilling data
in the country, coupled with a well thought out legal and fiscal framework
can be responsible for a dramatic change in the oil industry's perception
of the hydrocarbon potential of a country. It is very important that only
the highest quality consultants be selected to do the basic interpretation



*                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- 11  -
work and the compilation of the results into a readable and informative
report which can positively affect oil companies' perception.
35.       Since delayed payments to contractors or consultantu can result
in non performance of the people involved, the borrower should ensure that
all invoices are properly attended to and payment made promptly.
36.       Formal promotion meetings wqould better be held near the offices
of companies which might be interested ir making a commitment (e. g.
Houston and/or London) rather than in Nairobi.
37.       Oil companies making applications for blocks should be treated
equally. There should be no hint of favoritism for one company over
another. Above all, the Government should be seen to be fair in all of its
dealings and negotiations.
38.       The end of the project does not mark the end of the need for
continuing assistance. In fact, the presence of oil companies undertaking
an exploration and drilling campaign require the monitoring and supervision
efforts of the Borrower. In addition, new data must be carefully archived
for easy retrieval by the Government or other companies in the future.
Finally, there will probably be a need for additional acreage promotion for
areas newly identified as being prospective and recently relinquished
areas. These on-going activities should be considered for suppport.



- 12 -
JECT COPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2065-KE
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PREPARED B
NATIONAL OIL COMPANY OF KENYA
Introduction
39.       In 1979, the Govexnment created the Ministry of Energy to
purposely handle all energy matters which were hitherto being handled by
different Ninistries. The emphasis was clearly put on oil exploration
taking into consideration the 1970s oil import crisis. The Government was
of the opinion that a systematic oil exploration would probably lead to
commercial discovery to alleviate the drain of foreign exchange. To
undertake a systematic exploration, money was required including a new
approach to attract the oil companies. Consequently, the Government gave a
go ahead to the Ministry to negotiate for funds from donor countries or a
loan to undertake the much needed promotion activities.
40.       Initial discussions with Norad agreed on compiling all the
available data to pave the way for the promotion. However, as this line of
thinking continued, the Government also approached the World Bank which was
also willing to fund the promotion. A working relationship including each
group's responsibility could not be agreed and the Government opted for a
loan from IBRD which was approved on December 8, 1981.
Project Design
41.       The World Bank Mission in May 1980, during the appraisal stage,
agreed the project to be designed in phases.
(a) Phase 1. Funding under PPF arrangement was agreed, in which
case a consultant, BEICIP, undertook the collection of all
available data since early 1950s. This was not an easy task
because under the previous exploration activities, the companies
were not bound to submit all the data except final reports. As
such, most of the data had to be collected from the operators by
means of visiting them in their premises. Nevertheless,
approximately 95 percent of the data was collected and augmented
by the available data which had to be collected from
the Ministry of Natural Resources, which was at the



- 13 -
time, administering petroleum exploration. BEICIP
prepared the PPF report as requested in 181 thus
paving the way for Phase 2.
(b) Phase 2. Phase two started before the loan was approved on
December 8, 1981, and culminated in the preparation of the
promotion report and the issuance of new Petroleum Exploration
regulations on 5th May, 1982. The promotion took place as
scheduled in Paris on 13th November, 1982.
InDlementation
42.       First Promotional Round:  The promotion took place in Paris on
11th May, 1982. Sixteen companies attended the meeting. The report which
was sold at US$25,000 per copy, was bought by 14 companies. Seventeen
reports were sold to 14 companies.
43.       The revised Oil Production Regulations, 1982, were issued
through a special gazette notice on 5th May, 1982 and formed the basis of
negotiations. The Oil Production Act Cap 308, was not changed at the time
of issuance of these new Regulations. Nevertheless, both the Act and the
Regulations were to be subjected to serious revision in 1983/1984. During
the 1982 promotion, the Government offered six blocks with one block
reserved for the Government in Eastern Kenya. The in-house advisor from
BEICIP provided very useful advice to the success of both the first and the
second promotion rounds.
44.       Two oil companies, Arco and Texaco, began negotiations with the
Government for Blocks 2 and 3, but after transformation to PSC and the
delay in signing the agreements, the companies refused to 4 ranspose these
licenses into PSC's and they withdrew.
45.       It was realized that the information offered during the first
promotion was not enough and a follow-up followed which included airmag
survey covering 48,800 km, reprocessing of selected old seismic lines,
revision of the oil Production Act and the Regulations, Landsat imagery
interpretation and further data from the Mines & Geology which hitherto had
not been included because it was not published. At the same time, it was
agreed to prepare a detailed geological map of Kenya at a scale of
1:1,000,000 using the old data in a set of three maps comprising structural
contours, Bouguer gravity and geology. This data, apart from the maps, was
to be offered to the oil companies during the second promotion meeting.
46.       The accounting procedure was introduced in 1982.  The procedures
manuals were prepared but the implementation which was to start with the
existing operating company was overtaken by the new accounting procedures
introduced in 1984 under the PSC model contract. The Senior Petroleum
Accountant, who was trained in the US under this project, also left the
Ministry in 1985. The accounting procedure, although put in place, was
never tested.
47.       PetroCanada International Assistance Corporation and the
Government entered into a Technical Assistance agreement in July and, in



- 14 -
September 1984, PCIAC ecquired 1200 line-km of seismic in Block No. 4 and
drilled Kencan No. 1 well vo a total depth of 3,960 m in 1986 and
thereafter continued with evaluation of the well and training of local
professionals both in-house and in Canada. At the same time in 1986, PCIAC
supplied one Senior Drilling Engineer who continued assisting NOCK until
September 1989 and another supplies expert who stayed a short time.
48.       Second Promotion Round:  This was a followup of the 1982 round.
This meeting, held in Nairobi on 19th September 1984 was attended by 13
companies. The followup report was bought by 16 companies. The price of
the report was US$15,000 and US$40,000 for those who did not buy the 1982
report. During this time, the Government offered 10 blocks which included
some blocks in the northern part of Kenya but excluded block 10 and 4. Out
of these, half were taken and agreements were signed in 1985. It should be
noted that during the promotion, the Government offered new attractive
regulations which included the PSC model and took into consideration all
the suggestions from oil companies which included the Foreign Exchange
Control Act, the Income Tax Act and Customs and Excise Act which in 1982
had adversely affected negotiations of contracts. The resultant effect of
this promotion was that Amoco signed an agreement with the Government for
Block 10, 3 and 2; and Total for Block No. 9. While NOCK and PCIAC
operated Block No. 4 on a venture basis, PCIAC meeting all the external
costs. These contracts were signed in 1984 and 1985 respectively.
49.       Training:  Although it would look as if training was not
effective, the Government had many bilateral scholarships for long and
short courses and decided to utilize these fully. Most of these bilateral
donors included BTA, CIDA, PCIAC, and NORAD. Under the project,
US$187,812.22 was utilized. There seems to be an anomaly in the amount
paid for training. This may have occurred during the disbursement that
such payments were not properly categorized when filling the withdrawal
forms.
50.       Eguipment and Materials:  During the project, five trucks were
bought out of the project of which one was imported and four purchased
locally in addition to three typewriters, one Xerox machine and one diazol
copier and miscellaneous office items in 1983.
51.       Procurement:  All procurement was done with the advice of the
Bank and all evaluated consultancy and Technical Services were quickly
approved. This enabled the work to proceed effectively. BEICIP,
contracted by the Government as a consultant, did a commendable job during
the two phases and provided a transition to the current project through
their advisor Mr. Ayme.
Negotiations
52.       The negotiations with Arco and Texaco, as a result of the 1982
promotion, were withdrawn without signing any agreement because of long
delays and refusal by the companies to transpose licenses into PSC's.
Negotiations with Amoco, Total and their partners for Blocks 10, 2, 3 and 9
were concluded effectively in November 1984 and the first quarter of 1985
respectively. Both companies as operators started operations in 1985.



- 15 -
Ecnmc pfaet
53.       Although no commercial discovery has been made, the project
fulfilled its objectives. Apart from fulfilling these objectives, it had
an economic impact to the country:
(a)  EmfloyMent:  Local labour has since been involved in both the
oil companies offices including those of their subcontractors.
Needless to say, hundreds of local personnel were involved in
non-skilled and semi-skilled jobs in the field, thus reducing
the high unemployment problem.
(b) SupplY of Local Goods and Services: Most of these companies
were supplied with fuel, stationery, food and other services
such as catering, transportation, communication etc., locally.
By paying for these services, the companies injected funds into
the Kenyan econom".
(c)  Rentals:  The companies rented houses, offices and other
facilities which were paid for.
54.       Calculations show that while the compan'es have spent over
US$100 million, approximately 60 percent has been paid to contractors and
subcontractors and wages outside Kenya, while 40 percent has been spent
locally on services and goods which has been injected into the country's
economy benefiting both the local people and the Government that has
received a large share in the form of surface fees and training fees.
Taxes paid by local employees of these companies have also gone to the
Government.
55.       The Government policy of attracting oil companies through
acreage promotion is a system which should be continued. This is because
it has proved' to be the most effective way of attracting exploration
capital which the Government does not have. The project attracted and
increased exploration activities hitherto not seen and the number of wells
drilled within a short time testify to the success of the project.
Likewise, the project increased geological knowledge of the Kenyan basins
which, without this project, could not have been achieved. Even though no
commercial discovery has been made, the data so collected would be of
paramount importance in hydrocarbon exploration in Kenya in the future.
Comments
56.       The following are comments which we would like to make to the
main text of the Project Completion Report:
(a) Adeguacv and Accuracy of Part III: All of the dates and
activities are correct.
(b) Part I: The analysis is correct and -where there is a
difference, the information has been corrected in Part II. The



- 16 -
areas not included in Part II above, means that they are correct
and there was no point in repetition.
(c)  Bank's Performance:  The Task Managers and other Bank officials
provided useful guidance on how to design and implement the
project.  The close supervision contributed hilghly to the
success of the project. Although there were certain delays on
the part of the Government, the Bank appreciated that every
government has its own procedures and unless these are
fulfilled, there is no short cut. Although some were minor, at
least a solution was found and the project proceeded to fulfil
its objectives.
(d)  Borrower's Performance:  Most of the people involved in this
project from the start were not familiar with the Bank's
regulations and procedures and continued to learn from the
Bank's experience. However, the implementation personnel put a
lot of time and effort to learn and to ensure the project
succeeds. By the time the project closed, the evaluation
procedures, procurement and withdrawal procedures had been
understood which made it easy to proceed with the Technical
Assistance Project with minimum delays. The Borrower's
implementing agency now is familiar with the Bank's requirements
on procedures, project design, accountability, procurement and
working relationships with the Bank and these experiences,
particularly in the petroleum sector, will in future increase
the Agency's efficiency while implementing such projects.
se) The Relationship Between the Borrower and the Bank: The
Borrower and the Bank have a long history of relationship, not
only in this project, but in multiple projects in various
development sectors in the country. Although there were
protracted discussions with the Borrower, the Bank and Norad at
the beginning trying to find out what role would be played by
each party in the project, the amicable agreement between the
Government of Kenya and the Bank enabled the project to take off
as designed to fulfil the Borrower's requirement. The project
was implemented and fulfilled its objectives due to the existing
co-operation between the two parties.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2065-KE
PART III:  PROJECT'S PROFILE
1.       Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Loan/Credit                      Year of
Title          gurRose         Aoproval   Status       Comments
CR 1675-KE   Petroleum Expl.     7/11/86    Supervision  Promotion of
Te-h. Assistance                            Rift Valley &
Open Acreage
2.        Prolect Timetable
Date           Date          Date
Item                Planned        Revised        jctual
First mention in files                                       3/06/79
Identification                                               3/05/80
Preparation                                                  3/81
Appraisal Mission             12/80                          5/81
Loan Negotiations              4/81          10/81           10/23/81
Board Approval                 6/81                         12/08/81
Loan Signature                                                1/13/82
Loan Effectiveness             3/82                           1/27/82
Loan Closing                    8/31/85        9/27/85       8/31/86
Comments: Loan ..egotiations. which took place in NIirobi, and the
subsequent procossing of the project were delayed due to discussions with
NORAD regarding what components, if any, it would be implementing. Loan
closing was extended for one year in ord6r to complete the project and to
avoid a gap between this project and the follow-utp, CR 1675-KE, The
Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project.



- 18 -
3.        Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ x 106)
FY82    83       84        85        86       87
Appraisal Estimate        2.10    3.21       3.76     4.0      -         -
Actual (cumulative)         .64    2.22     2.88      3.32     3.51      3.85
Actual as % of estimate 30.5    69.2        76.6     83.0     87.8      96.2
Date of Final Disbursement:   November 26, 1986
4.                         ProJect Imalementation
Appraisal                  Actual (or
Indicators                         Estimate               PCR Estimate )
Award Consultants Contract                 8/31/80                         5/81
Consultants submit report                 11/30/80                         3/82
Initiation of aeromagnetic survey             2/82                         6/82
First round of acreage bidding                4/82                        10/82
Completion of aeromagnetic survey             8/82                         3/83
Second round of acreage bidding               6/83                         9/84
First agreement jigned w/ IOC                 9/82                        11/85
Final exploration report                      2/84                         2/85
Closing date                               8/31/85                      8/31/86



-19 -
5.                          Progect Costs and Flnancing
A. Project Costs:
Estimated at ADpraisal                      Actual
Locld        Forein       Total      Iad I/  Forifn            I
|1) Technical Assistance                        (US$ Thousand)                      (US$ Thousand)
l         ~~~(1) Technical Assistance
Legal                            100           160         260
Exploration                      300          1,420       1,720
Accounting/Auditing              110            130        240           -
Special Studies                   30            260        290           -
Subtotal                         540          1,970       2,510                   2,154
(2) Aeromagnetic Survey               120           750         870           -          976          976
(3) Computer Reprocessing (seismic)                 520         520           -
(4) Training                          100            140        240           -          688          688
(5) Vehicles, Materials & Equipt.   255               13        385           -           28            28
Baseline Cost               1,015         3,510       4,525                    3,846         3,846
Physical Contingencies             90           260         350           -            -
Price Contingencies               195           230         425           -
Total Contingencies         285            490         775
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    _                                                I5 .3003
6) Actual Project costs
B. Project FinansinK
Planned in
Category                                    Loan Agreeme                       Final
(US$ Thousand)                   (US$ Thousand)
(1) IBRD (Foreign Costs)
- Vehicles                                       90                              28
- Off & Lab Equipment                            40
- Training                                      140                             688  _/
- Aeromagnetic Survey                           750                             976
- Consultant & Experts'Svc.                   1,490                           1,906
- Refunding of PPF Advance                    1,000                             248
- Unallocated                                   490                              v   I/
Subtotal                                 4,000                          3,846
(2) Government (Local Costs)                       1.M                              --
Total 
1/ Actual local project cowts are not available. Audited financia' stements after September 1983 (which would provide
these details) could not be located in the tiles. The GOK was also inable to provide any cost information.
Z/ Anmount spent for training far exceeds original allocation because during the latter phases of the project, the
exploration consultant's chaotic invoices apparently failed to properly indicate from which allocation the invoices should
be paid. Am a result, too much was inadvcrtently disbursed from the Training category.



- 20 -
6.                   grolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
The project has been successful in attracting oil compa.aies to come to
Kenya to explore for petroleum. In so doing, each company has an
obligation to pay annual rentals on the acreage which it has under license,
as well as a yearly training levy. The total of these amounts plus the
purchase price for the report is as follows;
Rentals to 11/17/89     US$3,857,495
Training Levy                900.000
Sales of Reports             568.595
TOTAL                   US$5,326,090
In addition to the above there is the indirect benefit to the economy of
salaries to local Kenyans as well as the supply of goods and services by
Kenyans to the international oil companies.
B. Economic Imnact
Aside from the above in 6A, the greatest impact on the economy would be the
discovery of petroleum from the diminished importation of crude oil to the
possible sales of petroleum products to neighboring countries. In addition
to this would be the Government's income derived from the operations of oil
companies in producing and selling their oil and products.
7.                        Status of Covenants
Covenant                     Status
The Borrower shall cause such consultant and experts  Met
promptly to furnish to the Bank copies of the documents
prepared by them for the Project including reports and
drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications, work
schedules and estimates of costs, in such number as the
Bank shall reasonably request. (LA Section 3.02 (c))
The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views  Met
with the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations
contained in the documents referred to in the preceding
paragraph and shall consult with the Bank prior to the
implementation of any programs proposed to be initiated
in light of such conclusions and recommendations. (LA
Section 3.02 (d)).



- 21 -
l The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures   Met
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its costs and thie benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and servicas financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, and to disc.ose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and areas included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its costs and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, including
without limitation to the foregoing, quarterly and annual
reports on the execution of the Project in such format as
shall be acceptable to the Bank. (LA Section 3.04 (a)).                           I
The Borrower shall forward to the Bank for its approval   Met
a detailed work program and the technical specifications
for the aeromagnetic survey to be carried out under Part
A.2 (aeromagnetic surveying of approximately 30,000 line-
kim in the southeast, east and northwest regions of the
Borrower's territory) of the Project. (LA Section 3.06).                         l
The Borrower's Ministry of Energy shall maintain     Met with delay
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project. (LA Section 4.02 (a)).
The Borrower shall have the separate accounts referred    Met with delay
to in para. (a) of Section 4.02 for each year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied and shall furnish to the Bank; (i) as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(ii) such other information concerning such accounts and
the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request. (LA Section 4.02 (b)).



-22-
8.                              Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
tilsions-
Stage of        Month/  No. of   Days in                            Perform.   Types of
Proiect cycle   year    Persons   Field   Specialists Represented  Rating        Problem
Preparation      9/80       2       2      Financial Analyst            1
Geologist
Preparation      3/81       2       3      Economist                    1
Geologist
Appraisal        5/81       2      10      Economist                    1
Geologist
Post Appr.       7/81       1       7      Geologist                    I
Post Appr.       9/81       2       5      Contract Sp. Legal           1
Negotiations    10/81       2       5      Economist                    1
Geologist
Negotiations    12/81       1       2      Geologist                    1
Supervision      1/82       3       7      Geologist                    1     None
Geophysicist
Economist
Supervision      2/82       1       1      Geologist                    1     None
Supervision      3/82       3       3      Contract Specialist          1     None
Economist
Geologist
Supervision      4/82       2       7      Contract Specialist          I     None
Geologist
Supervision      5/82       4       5      Economist                    1     None
Financial Analyst
Supervision      7/82       1       3      Geophysicist                 I     None
Supervision      8/82       1       6      Geophysicist                 1     None
Supervision      8/82       2       5      Geologist                    1     None
Economist
Supervision      2/83       1       5      Geologist                    2     Financial/



23
Management
Supervision      4/83       3      10      Contract Sp. Economist       2     Financial/
Geologist                          Management
Supervision      6/83       1       5      Geologist                    2     Financial/
Management
Supervision      8/83       1       2      Geologist                    2     Financial/
Management
Supervision     11/83       2       5      Contract Specialist          2     Financial/
Geologist                          Management
Supervision      3/84       1       3      Geologist                    2     Financial/
Management
Supervision      7/84       3       4      Contract Specialist          2     Financial/
Division Chief                     Management
Supervision      9/85       1       1      Financial Analyst            1     None
Supervision      3/86       1       3      Geophysicist                 1     None
Supervision      7/86       2      10      Geophysicist                 1     None
Economist
Supervision     11/86       3       4      Geophysicist                 1     None
Geologist
Economist
PCR              3/87       2       3      Geophysicist                 2
Economist
B. Total Staff Weeks
Activitv        FY80    81    82    83    84    85       86    87    88    89   90
Preparation      5.1  18.2   4.3
Appraisal                    10.6
Negotiations                  6.6
Supervision                  22.5  31.2    8.3   5.6    5.6    .5   1.4
Proj. Comp. Rpt.                                              11.0          .8  3.0
TOTALS           5.1  18.2  44.0  31.2    8.3   5.6    5.6  11.5   1.4   .8  3.0



