Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3126-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
November 16, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Kenya Shillings (K. Sh)
US$1.00                     K Sh 10.0
K Sh 1.00                   US$0.100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd                         Barrels per day
GWh                         Gigawatt-hours, equivalent to
1 million KWh
KWh                         Kilowatt hours
MW                          Megawatts, equivalent to 1000
3                         kilowatts
m                           cubic meters
TOE                         Tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS
MOE                         Ministry of Energy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:               Government of Kenya
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:   Ministry of Energy.
AMOUNT:                 US$4.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                  20 years including 5 years of grace with interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   The project would help accelerate petroleum exploration
in Kenya by assisting the Government to: (i) strengthen
its technical capability in formulating and supervising
a petroleum exploration program, (ii) establish the
information necessary to identify and open up new
prospective areas for exploration, and (iii) promote
and offer prospective acreage to interested oil
companies and subsequently negotiate contracts and
monitor the companies activities. This would be
accomplished through technical and legal assistance,
training and an aeromagnetic survey.
RISKS:                  The principal risk is that the tracts offered for explo-
ration may not prove attractive enough to foreign oil
companies. Given the cost of Kenya's oil imports,
current oil company interest, present knowledge of the
country's geology, and the low cost of the project
relative to potential investments in petroleum explora-
tion it could attract, the potential future benefits
from this project outweigh such a risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Technical Assistance
Legal                                             100         160       260
Exploration                                       300      1,420      1,720
Accounting/Auditing                               110         130       240
Special Studies                                    30        260        290
Subtotal                                540       1,970     2,510
Aeromagnetic Survey                                    120         750       870
Computer Reprocessing (seismic)                         -          520       520
Training                                               100         140       240
Vehicles, Materials and Equipment                      255         130       385
Baseline Cost                                   1,015      3,510      4,525
Physical Contingencies                                  90         260       350
Price Contingencies                                    195         230       425
Total Contingencies                               285        490        775
Total Project Cost                              1,300 1/   4,000 2/  5,300
Financing Plan                                        Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Government                                            1,300       -        1,300
IBRD                                                    -      4,000       4,000
Total                                            1,300    4,000       5,300
Estimated Disbursements
Fiscal Year                               1982      1983    1984   1985
Annual                                  2,100 2/ 1,100      550    240
Cumulative                              2,100    3,210   3,760  4,000
Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: No separate report
Map: IBRD 16063
1/   Includes US$50,000 in estimated taxes and duties.
2/   Includes two PPF advances totaling US$1 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A PETROLEUM
EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the Republic of Kenya for US$4.0 million equivalent to assist in the
financing of a Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project. The loan would be
for 20 years with 5 years grace with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The
Ministry of Energy would be the implementing agency.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in
Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya is now nearing completion.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organi-
zational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a signifi-
cant amount of Government participation and guidance. It is clear that the
country has made a smooth transition to new leadership following President
Kenyatta-s death in 1978, and that the future will see continuity in both the
political and economic spheres. Peaceful elections in 1979 provided additional
confirmation of this.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.



5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Growth of per capita income
has declined substantially since 1974 and average GNP per capita in 1980 was
US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a third of GDP and about two-
thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products) in 1978-80.
Since the growth of the industrial sector has been largely confined to the
major urban areas, agriculture remains the principal source of income in the
rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work. But despite the
substantial economic progress the country has made, Kenya still has signi-
ficant problems of poverty and underemployment. For example, it is estimated
that about one-fourth of the population have incomes which place them below
the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
the result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards, which has
resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in an
increase in the country's already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 583,000
sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially agricultural;
however, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 13% can be
regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential arid-
and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable
potential, and much of it is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the nonagricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the
total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb
all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income will be impeded by the
relative lack of access to land and education for the children of the poorest
section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.
To a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.



- 3 -
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly depen-
dent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and therefore
vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it
will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs
and increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which has averaged only about 2.7% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and insti-
tutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impedi-
ments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and
inadequacies in marketing. In addition, the concentration of land holdings
and insecure land tenure are inhibiting agricultural growth. Measures to deal
with these problems are essential to revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on balance of
payments (para. 42). From 1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an
average annual rate of 4.6%. However, over the past five years, export volume
has grown slowly. In 1980, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To
some extent this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and
industry, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1980
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the GDP growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to decelerate in
mid 1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The balance-of-payments and incomes effects of these were compounded
by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP
growth slowed to 4.2% in 1979 and an estimated 2.4% in 1980. The trade
deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly
depleted. The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional
surplus of US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$656 million in 1978,
while reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion
of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a
program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in
imports and reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit
in 1979. This, together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a



- 4 -
recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The
improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-lived. The increase
in petroleum prices combined with the need for additional food imports resulted
in a 25% rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%,
this was not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to
almost US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and efficient
to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to be more
closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition to projects
to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production, a series of
integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to
redress the neglect of these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely
to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally liberal
policy on foreign investment with the important exception that review and
approval of projects for which special concessions or Government participation
are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be centralized
in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a more limited
role for Government in terms of direct participation and intervention.
However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment incentives
to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there are doubts
in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in the develop-
ment process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for aid to
small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending of
unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.



17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The SP identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among other things, a
revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's urgent
financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance of payments
pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and adminis-
trative adjustments. In order to do so it has devised and is executing a
program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program involves:  (a) revision of the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the country's
new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's creditworthiness by
improving external debt management and introducing better planning and control
of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of rationalization of the
trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports and ensuring they are
competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising interest rate policy to ensure
that it is consistent with development objectives. The program has, on the
whole, been carried out satisfactorily. However, actions have been slower
than anticipated in some areas and more rapid in others. While the general
thrust of the program has been maintained, attempts to execute the policy
measures have revealed some weaknesses in planning and administration that
need to be remedied.
21.       A second structural adjustment phase is under discussion which, in
addition to supporting continuation of the process of rationalization of the
system of industrial protection and improvement of. incentives for export,



- 6 -
will include measures aimed at revitalization of the agricultural sector,
conserving energy and reducing the country's reliance on imported petroleum,
and policy initiatives in population.
22.       While the structural adjustment program will have a favorable impact
on the balance of payments over the longer term, the first years of the
1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the
Kenyan economy. The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in which
the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue to deter-
iorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because of high
borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past three
years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely to be
subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and demands
for increased expenditures. It is within this context that critical policy
decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of the pattern of
development. Kenya's easy options have been exhausted and the Government must
now come to grips with the country's basic structural problems.
23.       Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83. However,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government's structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate and current account deficits should remain stable over the next few
years. It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more expansionary
policies and a growth rate of GDP exceeding 5% per year should be attainable
during the second half of the decade. A feasible growth scenario would then
be one in which GDP increases at a pace below that of population in the early
years (1981-83) then gradually accelerates, averaging about 4.0% per year during
the first half of the decade and about 5.3% per year during the second half.
External Debt
24.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 5% in 1977 to about 12% in 1980. This includes service
payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt
service ratio is expected to increase to about 19% in the mid-1980s, and
decline gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank in 1980
accounted for 14.5% of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 0.7%.
The Bank's share of total debt service payments is expected to rise to about
15% by 1985 while IDA's share would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding
18.5% of Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 11%.
The Bank's share is expected to rise to 22% and IDA's to about 15% by 1985.
The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual



- 7 -
switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion
of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments
constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial financing
in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital
combined, and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined in a report to the
Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and more recent develop-
ments were reported in a statement to the Executive Directors during their
meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed
by the Partner States in January 1978, has visited East Africa on numerous
occasions and prepared reports on the results of his fact-finding work on the
EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services, and the methodology adopted in
appraising the assets and liabilities. In March 1980, the mediator presented
to the three Governments his proposals for the allocation of these assets and
liabilities and in December 1980, he submitted a supplemental report in response
to the Governments' reactions. In August 1981, the three Governments agreed
that the next step would be the start of negotiations based on the mediator's
proposals and now scheduled for December 1981. According to his terms of
reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving at a definitive
settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the future structure
of the East African Development Bank have been accepted by the Partner States.
The revised Charter, along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter, have been
ratified by the three Governments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 36 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 33 IDA credits amounting to US$1,291.1 million, which
support 62 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of the
EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of September 30, 1981; para. 51 contains a summary of Bank Group
lending to the Energy Sector.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.



- 8 -
Recent economic and sector work has also focused on the structural problems in
the various sectors, including the energy sector, and the Basic Economic
Report, now nearing completion, is expected to comprehensively address the
issues of income distribution, population growth and appropriate long-term
agricultural and industrial policies.
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not limited
to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing and their
design has been influenced by the need to complement policy actions under the
structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been given to the
agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis has also been placed on sectors
such as population, and energy. Projects approved since January 1981 include
a Fifth Education Project, a Railways project and a fourth line of credit to
the Agricultural Finance Company, while projects that have been appraised
include the second structural adjustment program, a second population project,
a cotton processing and marketing project, a third forestry project and an
urban transport project. Projects under preparation include a fourth power
project, a grain storage and marketing project and an urban (small cities)
project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in contrast
to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors accounting
for implementation delays have varied widely but some of the more pervasive
factors have been institutional/management constraints (Third and Fourth
Education projects), procurement problems (Nairobi Water Supply Project) and
budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing (Highway Sector
Loan and Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project). An in-depth review of the
causes of the poor project implementation performance and, consequently,
poor disbursements record is being undertaken by the Bank Group, and the
problems and possible solutions will be discussed with the Government.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$54.3 million for seven operations in
Kenya. These include loans for four companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.,; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). Also included are a US$2.0 million credit
line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a US$5.0 million credit line to the
Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and US$1.4 million in equity to the
Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of September 30, 1981 IFC held for its
own account US$39.7 million comprising US$30.4 million of loans and US$9.3
million of equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in
Annex II.
PART III - THE SECTOR
31.       Kenya has a modest energy resource base which includes wood, hydro-
power, geothermal and solar energy. Wood is by far the most important
energy source, supplying close to 70 percent of total requirements and all of



-9-
the noncommercial energy used.  Forests cover about 4 psrcent of the country's
+otal area, regenerating at a rate 3f about 9 million m annually. Annual
consumption is about 37.5 million m , however, resulting in severe and rapid
depletion of the forests. The Government has undertaken intensive reforesta-
tion with fast-growing softwoods and has received Bank assistance in this
effort (para. 51).
32.      The theoretical hydropower potential has been estimated at 6,000 MW
(30,000 GWh per annum), of which less than a quarter could be developed
economically under current conditions. Installed capacity is only about 300
MW, and low storage capacity on the Tana River does not permit optimal use
during periodic dry years.  In the past, generating capability used to fall
short of demand in dry years, and this resulted in load restrictions. The
situation has been overcome with the completion this year of the Upper
Reservoir on the Tana River. It will provide an extra 40 MW of power and,
more significantly, greater reservoir storage, allowing downstream generating
plants to produce more energy throughout the year.
33.       Geothermal potential has been proven in the range of 100-200 MW,
but further exploration will be required to establish the country's full
potential. The first geothermal-based power plant in Africa, with an initial
capacity of 15 MW, is currently in the start-up phase in Kenya; a second 15 MW
unit is scheduled to be commissioned in early 1983. The Bank has assisted in
the financing of hydro-electric and geothermal generating stations (para. 51).
Solar energy offers potential for residential water heaters, substituting for
some 90 GWh of electricity.
34.       No commercial petroleum resource has yet been identified, although
onland and offshore sedimentary basins exist and warrant further exploration
(paras. 45-46). No significant coal deposits have been discovered so far.
Other potential sources of energy in the country which require further
research are wind, biomass and biogas.
35.     Total energy consumption approached 7 million tons of oil equivalent
in 1980. Per capita annual consumption is estimated at 1,650 kg of oil
equivalent in urban areas and 315 kg in rural areas, a significant disparity
reflecting the existence of a large well-to-do population in Nairobi. Even
the level of rural consumption, however, is higher than the average for
Africa (300 kg) or the subsistence level (designated at 250 kg). As mentioned
above, domestically-produced wood and charcoal account for about 70% of con-
sumption and all noncommercial consumption. Oil products, largely processed
domestically from imported crude, supply about a quarter of total energy used;
hydro-electricity supplies close to five percent. 1/   Coal provides less than
one percent of energy used, being used principally in cement-making. About
three-quarters of energy demand is accounted for by residential users (mostly
1/   To meet peak needs during dry spells in specific areas of the country,
Kenya buys electricity from Uganda under a long-term contract. In 1979,
160 GWh were purchased and in 1980, a particularly dry year, 315 GWh
were imported.



- 10 -
noncommercial), about 13 percent by transport and the rest by industrial,
agricultural and commercial users.
Sector Institutions
36.     In line with the increased attention being given to energy issues,
the Government consolidated responsibility for the energy sector in the
Ministry of Energy (MOE), which was created in December 1979. The MOE over-
sees (i) energy policy formulation; (ii) electric power development; (iii)
development of oil and other fossil fuels; and (iv) research on nonconventional
energy sources -- wind, biogas, solar, geothermal, wood fuel, etc. The
Ministry has an authorized staff of about 150 but has filled only about 100 of
these positions and, consequently, has not been able to address all of the
important issues in the energy sector. The European Economic Community is
financing a study on the structure of MOE and its relationship with other
institutions in the sector. Responsibility for mining as well as the forests,
lies with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The Ministry of
Agriculture also shares some jurisdiction over the forests. The Ministry of
Finance establishes prices and tax rates for all energy resources.
37.    Although the creation of the MOE is an important first step in organiz-
ing sector activities, there is still a need to define overall priorities in
sector development and to coordinate activities of bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies to reflect such priorities. A Bank Group energy sector assessment
mission visited Kenya in April 1981 for the purpose of assisting the Government
in reviewing the sector and identifying priorities. A report of their findings
and recommendations is under preparation.
Energy Pricing
38.      The Government has followed a consistent policy of keeping petroleum
product prices in line with or above international prices. Taxes are levied on
petroleum products with the exception of fuel oil and industrial diesel oil.
Retail Prices and Taxes for Major Oil Products
(U.S.$/gal)
Comparative Int'l
Product               Retail price, Nairobi    Price (January 1981) 1/
(July 1981)
Premium gasoline                 2.55                  2.11
Regular gasoline                 2.38                  1.92
Kerosene                         1.05                  1.26
Diesel (Gas Oil)                 1.71                  n.a.
Fuel Oil                         0.71 2/               0.73
39.     Regarding electricity prices, a tariff structure based on long-term
marginal costs, formulated with Bank assistance, was introduced in 1979.
1/   Average, based on sample of 73 countries.
2/   Wholesale price.



- 1.1 -
The Petroleum Sector
40.     Petroleum demand is satisfied entirely through imports, primarily
of crude oil which is processed in the Mombasa refinery. 1/ Consumption of
petroleum products increased by about 5.5 percent p.a. during the 1975-80
period and reached about 1.87 million tons in 1980. Consumption by sector is
as follows: transport, 42%; industry, 25%; electric power, 15%; agriculture,
11%; and residential/commercial, 7%. Aviation fuel sales, accounting for about
21 percent of total sales within the country, is used principally to refuel
foreign carriers in Nairobi.
41.      The Mombasa refinery produces the bulk of petroleum products consumed
domestically. The refinery, originally designed to serve the East African
community, has a current capacity of 95,000 bpd with catalytic reforming
capacity of 9,000 bpd, although the utilization rate has been about 60%.
Domestic consumption is in the order of 32,000 bpd. The refinery is jointly
owned by the Government (50 percent) and the major private distributors of
products. Each company is entitled to run crude through the refinery to meet
its share of demand in local and export markets. Fuel oil accounts for about
42 percent of refinery output, far in excess of domestic demand; therefore, it
is largely exported. 2/ In the refinery's present configuration, and given the
structure of demand in Kenya and the adjacent land locked countries, about
one-third of the crude throughput has to be exported as residual fuel oil, at
prices 85-95 percent of the price of the light Arabian crude from which it
is refined. Domestic demand for middle distillates and gasoline is expected to
grow over the next several years; on the other hand, fuel oil is likely to be
replaced by coal, wherever possible, as in cement plants (para. 35). In view
of this projected shift in demand from heavier to lighter petroleum products,
the Government is studying the feasibility of installing additional cracking
capacity at the refinery.
Balance of Payments Impact
42.     Kenya is in a rather unique situation for an oil-importing developing
country since it nets a positive contribution to its balance of trade from the
reexport of refined products to neighboring countries, i.e. Uganda, Burundi,
Rwanda, eastern Zaire, southern Sudan and southern Ethiopia. Moreover, as
noted above, Nairobi's strategic location makes it a large refueler of jet
aircraft. Consequently, aviation fuel sales, which are considered as exports
since they are paid for in foreign exchange, accounted for 23 percent of
Kenya's petroleum export earnings and 13 percent of volume in 1980. Hence,
Kenya's balance of payments is not as adversely affected by the cost of
petroleum imports as that of similar developing countries. Although gross
petroleum imports in 1980 (valued at about US$610 million) represented 30
percent of total imports, net petroleum imports accounted for only about 12
percent of total imports.
1/   Import volume of crude and products in 1980 was 3.21 million tons and
export volume was 1.62 million tons.
2/   About 40 percent of the Mombasa refinery's output is exported; one-
third of this amount is accounted for by product exports to neighboring
countries.



- 12 -
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
43.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and exploitation rests
with the Technical Division of MOE (para. 36). Although its staff has little
experience in the oil industry, it is headed by a capable geologist. A
petroleum geologist and a geophysicist were hired recently, who would function
as local counterparts of the project-supplied exploration consultants (see
para. 56).
44.       The Mineral Oil Act and the Oil Production Act (dating back to 1937
and to 1925, respectively) govern oil exploration activities in Kenya. These
laws are based on mining legislation and require separate permits for each
phase of activity. They are in need of streamlining and updating to reflect
current worldwide petroleum industry practices. Consequently, the MOE has hired
consultants with funds from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to undertake
this work (para. 49).
Past History and Status of Exploration
2              2
45.     2 Kenya's sedimentary area totals 260,009 km    192,000 km  onland,
8,000 km on the continental shelf and 60,000 km in the deep offshore. It
should be noted that Somalia claims a large part of Kenya's northeastern
territory, although the claim is not recognized by Kenya. Based on the
evidence available from drilling in Kenya and neighboring countries, the
country's petroleum potential is rated as modest. The most attractive
areas are (a) the Coastal Basin, with its potential source rocks, reservoirs
and possibilities for structural and stratigraphic traps, and (b) the more
internal portion of the sedimentary basins consisting of little explored
Karroo sediments (continental) similar to those found in the Ruva Valley area
of Tanzania and in Madagascar.
46.       Although Kenya has been explored for oil since 1954, it was not
until the early 70-s that drilling was undertaken. A total of 12 exploratory
wells have been drilled to date (including one well in the deep offshore).
Most had some minor oil and gas sMows. In view of the sparse coverage -
only one well per about 16,500 km of prospective area - the petroleum
potential of Kenya remains to be evaluated. At present, only one consortium
of oil companies (Cities Service, 2Union Oil and Marathon) holds an exploration
permit (over an area of 12,340 km , both offshore and onland), and it is
currently drilling one well offshore.  Other companies have shown interest in
undertaking exploration, but the Government is waiting for results from some
of the preliminary work under the proposed project before offering more areas
for exploration.
Government Approach to Petroleum Exploration
47.       The Government attaches high priority to the exploration of domestic
hydrocarbon resources, and it is taking a systematic approach to attracting
more foreign oil companies to participate in this effort. With funds provided
under two advances from the PPF totaling US$1 million, it has employed two



- 13 -
consulting firms: BEICIP of France to review existing geological and geo-
physical data on Kenya's basins to prepare a geological assessment of the
country's petroleum potential; and Vinson and Elkins of Houston to review and
propose amendments to the legal and contractual framework for petroleum explo-
ration and production to bring it in line with prevailing petroleum agreements.
48.       On the basis of recommendations by BEICIP, the Government has
adopted the following exploration strategy. First, after a review of past
information collected by oil companies previously active in Kenya, it plans to
open for exploration the offshore and part of the eastern region of the
country through a first round of bidding to take place in the spring of 1982.
Second, it would finance an aeromagnetic survey in the remaining parts of the
east as well as the northwestern parts of the country (those sedimentary
areas covered by the Karroo sequence) with a view to opening them up to
exploration in 1983.
49.        The legal consultants are drafting a model contract, integrating
into one document exploration and production licenses (which previously were
separate contracts) and incorporating new language in a number of areas to
reflect current practices - for example, scheduled relinquishments and a
participation option for the Government. The financial terms are still under
review. The Government's underlying approach is no.t to undertake work which
could be carried out by petroleum companies.
The Bank's Role
50.        The Government's strategy is basically sound and deserves Bank
support. Its successful implementation will depend on the availability of
qualified technical staff to compile and interpret available information,
negotiate with oil companies on a knowledgeable basis and monitor their
future activities. MOE is aware that until more Kenyan personnel are ade-
quately trained it will have to rely on foreign expertise. The Bank's role
would be to assist in providing MOE with this expertise and in training its
staff.
Previous Bank Group Lending in the Sector
51.       The proposed project would be the second Bank Group operation in
the petroleum subsector. The first operation was a US$20.0 million loan
(Loan 1133-KE of 1975) to assist in financing a pipeline to solve the increas-
ing problems being experienced in moving of oil products from the refinery in
Mombasa to Nairobi and upcountry destinations. The OED report on this project
(Report No. 3483) states that the above-mentioned objective was effectively
achieved, and construction was completed on schedule; however, cost overruns
(36%) and a significant decline in traffic volumes compared to project esti-
mates resulted in the economic rate of return declining to 19% compared with
31% expected at appraisal. Other Bank lending to the energy sector consists
of two loans for reforestation (Loans 641-KE of 1969 and 1132-KE/CR 565-KE of
1975) and four power loans (Loans 745-KE of 1971, 1147-KE of 1975, S-12-KE of
1978, and 1799-KE of 1980). Project implementation in the power sector has
been excellent; in the forestry sector the first loan was implemented satis-
factorily while the second loan suffered from cost overruns and implementation
problems.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
52.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Kenya in March 1980 and appraised in May 1981. Loan negotiations
were held in Nairobi on October 22-23, 1981. The Kenyan delegation was headed
by Mr. P.S. Kihara, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy. A loan
and project summary appears at the beginning of this Report, and a supplement-
ary project data sheet is given in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared.
Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project would assist the Government in attracting
foreign oil companies and negotiating exploration contracts. Specifically,
the project would:
(a) strengthen the technical capability of MOE in formulating and
supervising a petroleum exploration program;
(b) finance an aeromognetic survey over the south-east, east and
northwestern part of the country to open up these areas for
exploration; and
(c) provide assistance to MOE in promoting an: offering prospective
acreage to interested oil companies in two rounds of bidding,
in negotiating contracts and, subsequently, in monitoring the
activities of operating companies.
Project Description
54.       The proposed project would include technical and legal assistance,
training and an aeromagnetic survey. The details are shown below.
1.   Technical Assistance to MOE for Exploration Promotion Activities
(a) Exploration Consultants (120 man-months). These consultants
would continue work begun under the advances from the PPF
and would assist MOE in:
(i) securing, compiling, reinterpreting and evaluating data
pertaining to hydrocarbon exploration in Kenya, both
onland and offshore, and supervising the reprocessing
of data and laboratory analyses, as needed, in order to
assess the petroleum potential and generate new ideas
for petroleum exploration;
(ii) preparing promotion reports for sale to interested
companies and administering the competitive bidding and
negotiations for acreage (e.g. preparation of tender
documents, promotion of offered blocks, evaluation of
bids);



- 15 -
(iii)  monitoring of contractors  work obligations and integrating
data generated in the course of project implementation with
existing information;
(iv) preparing the specifications for and supervising the implemen-
tation of a detailed aeromagnetic survey (para. 54(2(a)) below);
(v)  assisting the legal consultant in the preparation of model
agreements; and
(vi) training of MOE staff.
As part of this assistance, an experienced resident petroleum
geologist would be provided on a full-time basis to MOE over
the 36-month period of implementation of the proposed project.
(b)  Legal Consultants (7 man-months).  Under the advances from the
PPF these consultants are:
(i)  revising the Oil Production Act and its regulations in order
to recommend amendments to bring them in line with prevailing
petroleum laws; and
(ii)  preparing model exploration/production agreements.
The project also provides for training and legal assistance to MOE and
the Attorney General's Chambers during negotiations with the oil
companies.
(c) Petroleum accounting/auditing consultants (7 man-months).
These consultants would:
(i) design and establish an appropriate petroleum accounting
system for MOE to monitor the work performed and
expenditures incurred by operating companies; and
(ii) train MOE staff in operation of the new accounting system.
(d) Special studies such as paleontology, sedimentology, geochemical
and log analyses necessary to complement the work of the explora-
tion consultants.
2.   Aeromagretic Survey and other Geophysical Processing and Interpretation
(a)  An aeromagnetic survey of about 30,000 line-km would be under-
taken in the south-east, east and northwest regions to estab-
lish the sedimentary thickness of the basins, the fault pattern
and the magnitude of possible volcanic intrusions in order to
assess the region's prospectiveness and to generate interest in
exploration. The work program, and the technical specifications,
which are satisfactory to the Bank, have been prepared by the
exploration consultants (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).



- 16 -
(b) Processing of Seismic Data and Landsat Imagery. This component
provides for reprocessing of about 2,500 line-km of previously
acquired seismic profiles in order to improve geologic intepre-
tation and processing of Landsat imagery for geostructural
intepretation.
3.        Training
To complement on-the-job training which would be provided on a continuous
basis by the consultants, this component would provide brief training abroad
for MOE staff in techniques, management, contract administration and other
activities relating to petroleum exploration. The proposed training program
was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
4.   Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
The project would finance the purchase of office materials and equipment,
including special copying machines for logs and seismic profiles, vehicles,
technical books, and storage equipment for magnetic tapes and geologic samples.
Cost Estimates
55.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$5.3 million of
which US$4.0 million would be in foreign exchange. 1/ The total cost per
man month of consulting services has been estimated on average at US$16,500
including travel, subsistence and overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking
into account the high level of expertise required and salaries prevailing in
the petroleum industry. The cost of the aeromagnetic survey has been esti-
mated on the basis of surveys in comparable countries. The cost estimates
include physical contingencies of 10 percent on all project components not
financed under the PPF. Price contingencies of 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5
percent for 1983 and 1984 have been applied to the foreign costs of all
project components. Price contingencies of 13 percent for 1982, 9 percent for
1983 and 8 percent for 1984 have been applied to local costs. Total contin-
gencies amount to 17 percent of baseline costs (24 percent on components not
financed under the PPF). Estimated costs by project component are given in
the project summary. The proposed Bank loan of US$4.0 million would finance
the foreign exchange component or about 75 percent of total project cost. The
Government would finance the local costs.
Project Implementation
56.        The Ministry of Energy would be in charge of implementing the
project. The Commercial Section of the Attorney Generals Chambers is assist-
ing in the review of the legal framework for exploration and the preparation
of model contracts. The exploration and legal consultants have started work
under the PPF (para. 47), and the accounting consultants are scheduled to
begin work in early 1982. The aeromagnetic survey would be carried out in
1982 under the supervision of MOE and its exploration consultants. It is
expected that a first round of acreage bidding would be carried out before
mid-1982, involving the eastern region of the country and the offshore area,
1/   The local cost (US$1.3 million) includes US$50,000, the estimated taxes to
be paid by the project.



- 17 -
and a second round would be conducted by mid-1983 for the Karroo area and the
northwestern part of the country. A schedule of implementation over 36 months
is given in Annex IV. MOE shall employ, for the duration of the project, a
project director whose experience and qualifications shall be satisfactory to
the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). MOE shall also retain, for
the duration of the project, a petroleum geologist, a geophysicist and a
financial officer (para. 59) acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(b)).
57.       Interested oil companies are expected to purchase promotion reports
and the results of the aeromagnetic survey. The Government would record
proceeds from such sales in a separate account and shall make the proceeds
available for energy studies and surveys through annual or supplementary
budgetary appropriations as required by the MOE (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       The contract for the aeromagnetic survey would be awarded following
ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Vehicles
(US$90,000), office and laboratory equipment (US$40,000) would be procured
following local bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The
selection of consultants for exploration and legal assistance has been done
already under the PPF, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracting for the reprocessing of seismic data, processing of Landsat
imagery and special studies shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  The Government
may extend its respective contracts to cover the work remaining under the
proposed project.  The accounting/auditing consultants (and the exploration
and legal consultants were they to be replaced or supplemented) would be
selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursement would be made for:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of foreign consultants;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of seismic
reprocessing, Landsat imagery and the aeromagnetic survey;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of training, materials
and equipment;
(d) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 67 percent of the
local expenditures for vehicles; and
(e) refunding of Project Preparation Facility Advances (US$1.0 million).
The proceeds of the loan are expected to be fully disbursed three and a half
years after effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
59.       The Ministry has designated a financial officer who shall maintain
project accounts and implement, together with the consultants, the petroleum
accounting system. The responsibility for auditing MOE accounts, as with



- 18 -
all Government ministries, rests with the Controller and Auditor General.
This entity shall perform audits of project accounts and submit audit reports
satisfactory to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year starting with FY82 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (b)). MOE
shall keep separate financial accounts for the project and submit quarterly
and annual reports on project implementation in a format acceptable to the
Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04(a) and 4.02(a)). It would also
submit a project completion report not later than six months after the closing
date (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(c)).
Project Benefits and Risks
60.       The primary benefit of this project would be to attract further
private capital to undertake petroleum exploration in Kenya. It is expected
that offshore tracts and onland areas in the eastern part of the country
would be offered through competitive bidding by mid-1982. The aeromagnetic
survey is expected to provide information which would serve as a basis for the
opening of further areas in the southeast, east and northwestern parts of the
country for petroleum exploration through competitive bidding expected by
mid-1983. The project would also strengthen the capacity of MOE to negotiate
with foreign companies, formulate and supervise an exploration program and
monitor its results.
61.       A risk associated with the proposed project is that tracts offered
for bidding either in the first or second round may not prove attractive
enough to foreign companies. Given the current expense to Kenya of importing
oil, present knowledge of the country's geology, current oil company interest,
and the low cost of the project relative to potential investments in petroleum
exploration it could attract, the advantages of proceeding with the project
outweigh this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are given
in Section III of Annex III to this report.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 16,1981



-19-                                                         ANNEX I
UEYA - SOC7IL INDICATORS DATA SUET
KENYA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WRIGHTED AVE GES
LAND AREA (IHOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                     - NtST R2CENT RST1ATET
TOTAL            582.6                                MOST RECENT        MIDDLE INC(ME             MIDDLE UICOME
AGRICULTURAL      60.4              1960 jb    1970 .Lt ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMUiCA 6 CAR7IBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       170.0    380.0                 794.2                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    150.4       122.1    180.1                 707.5                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MI-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8189.0      11253.0   15274.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 7.4         10.2      13.8                 27.7                   64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     34.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2095
PUPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.1        19.3     26.2                 55.0                    34.3
PER b(1. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2      191.4    244.4                130.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        47.6        48.9      50.0                 46.0                    40.7
15-64 YES.                        49.8        48.6      47.6                 51.2                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6         2.5       2.4                  2.8                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         3.2       3.4                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                             5.2         6.4       6.8                  5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BlRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.0        52.7       51.3                46.9                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         17.5      13.4                 15.8                    8.4
GROSS REPROUUCTION RATE              3.6         3.8       3.8                 3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITlON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         99.0       100.0      86.0                 89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKtENTS)                 99.0        99.0      88.0                 92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0       68.0      52.0                 52.8                    65.8
OF WHICU ANIMAL AND PULSE      29.0        28.0      20.0                 16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) M0RTALITY RATE     34.0       22.5      15.2                 20.2                     7.6
HEALrH                                                                                                   -
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.3        49.1      54.7                 50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAMD)                          126.Oc     119.0     91.0                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WAIER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
rOTAL                               ..       15.0      17.0                 27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..      100.0    100.0                  74.3                    79.7
RUNtL                               *-         2.0      4.0                 12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *        50.0      55.0                                         59.9
URBAN                              ..        85.0      98.0                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..        45.0      48.0                   ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10690.6      7830.9(d 11625.2Ld           13844.1                  1728.2
POPULAIION PER NURSING PERSON    2230.0/c.d  1474.1/d  1085.7/d             2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           807.0Lc      774.1    770.8               1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                              ..          ..    602.1                 423.0                   558.0
RURAL                               *-         *-    802.8                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               *-        4.7
UBAN                               ..         4.7
RURAL                              ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URlAN                             2.5          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ALCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-20-                                                              ANNEX I
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         60.0       99.0                  73.7                     101.7
MALE                  64.0         70.0      105.0                   96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                30.0         49.0       94.0                  79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          8.0       18.0                   16.2                     35.3
MALE                   3.0         12.0       22.0                   25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0       14.0                   14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0        2.0                    5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         34.0       33.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           15.0         21.0       25.0                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0/c       30.0       45.0                     ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0          8.5        8.0                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         44.4       36.8                  69.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          1.4        4.2                   8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.0         13.8       11.2                  20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0             ..        0.4                   0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3299.8       4319.7    5530.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.5         34.3       33.5                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0         82.0       78.4                  56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          7.0        9.6                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 40.3         18.4       ,6.2                  37.2                      31.8
MALE                                  53.3         50.9       48.5                   47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                                27.5         26.1       24.1                  27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.3       1.4                    1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.67        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.9         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         11.7         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      150.0                 381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      112.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      179.0                 334.3                     513.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..      106.0                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       10.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /e Urban only.
May, 1981



-21-                                                                                      ANNEX I
Sae.although the data are drw  ft-u  sucS generally judged th  ser authoritati-e and reliable, it Should also h  noted that thay sy not he inter-
nationaly coo... bl. b.canon of the lack of etandardi..d dftirtone- end ..oncePts used by dtffsnt-  countries iotlartgthe dunn.  The de.                       none-
tha1la. . usful to den.tibth  ord.s of en,nituda, indicate trns,ad ch.....ttri. c-t-in ej-r diff-r..... hateeo  Oct-O
Tbs ineec   rop   r   1  teaj.outygopofteshet coutry no  (2) a o-nte  Sroup  ithb ao.eoet hihr avrg   noathan the contr, grou p
ofossbetcf        or.(xetfe-"uoa  upueOlteotr   ne-ou  abat  'itiddl. iuo.s Mt5oht Af-ic. and Middle tsa"O  choa  hat..e. of stone
ott-cultutal nfttitise).  In the  etereno. grou  duca the av-ges are pouaInnighted aritheetic  sore 1ttnh tudicuto  and abv  ony  he
eteit'Y of the. coutrie  It a groP hoe data for thur indiceot-   Since the  -oerge of catienoathe tdicarore d..p.eda on the avlility" of date
.An  isntuifo, catito eas  he  eecid tu rn.LaOi  -v-S.. of oe tedica'to  to anothert:x.t Thaarneae  ny.. sfut It coope teg. the -aueof
-a iodicat-r att Sasm     the c-.try end refe-nc  gtoopa.
LAND ASIA  (tho.ao  eqN. oo!ttno                                                                                         jB.stalrd - total. oro    o  coral           Z 'plto   (total,
Tocal -Total aufatearn   coeptite- lbed are  no   nan=ee                                         ebn  andru-el), drdd by  he  reetieohaof bapittbd
Asti-Octue-I - utet-t  of  ercluac-nusdt-eporart   orpe _etnol                                  avsilehle in pllc ad privaa  enra  an  eetui.d hospina  an..dfr
ror crop, paecte-ee. eabt and ktOchen gcrdas -r to tie f.allo, 197g data.                     Iotlcttt`  crtr.t   Soapitaiepatahblsb-anetpr" aely stffe
hy at a"st o P hysiciun.  Tat-bliah-onta  ceid-ovunepinote-aly cai-
GUP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pa  caita naoae   t cue-runt e           t p-itee. cal-                dial cae aent tuiuded.  te-al hoapitals, hre--  inoloda health
lotatd by eas  contrica  Waho     -aIOrd Both Atlas (1977-79 baai.). 1960.                     -u eie   ntasntprsetly staffed by a phy.tin   (ho.                t by 
1970, nod 1979 date.                                                                            ne  tl  eltet  tu-n ideifo. atc.)  hich offer in-Patietaol
dartit and proide einited  -uo. of sedioel fstlitias.  to- se-tia-
URCYG  CONSUM(PTION PEI CAPITA - AOou-I c-a-ptito  of   -tne-ia1 soagy (coat                      ital  tpnrpe  urban hospitals inolde ISO. pri.intp./genoai bosepitnla.
and tigoite, P.tr-i-a  natua  gee end hydro.-.  -uclea  and geothareal c-                       nod ru-al hepit.14 loa  or.    c .oral hospitals and seditl an   atarotty
tr icity) 10thilog-an  of c...  eqialn    -prcpita; 1960. 1971. nod 1979                       _n_a-s  tSactitend hasp mole ore teaded only onden en.a.
data.                                                                                         Aduisair   err gorTa. ga  - local   _"r t ofdn.iaso.e to or discharges
fro  hoepitele dtrtded by the o,nha  of bed..
POPTIIATIOU ANS VITAL. STATISTICS
Totl  ro1   aio.Kid-Tun-  (thouead.) - Au of July 1. l960. 1970,. ad 1979                   HOUStING
dat.Ae-e St.a of H...ehold (a n  our household) - trtal. urba. andrr. 1-
Se-bun Polati-n loer-e    of total) - uattoo   ca   otoa   onai                                 A bonsod ceier. of a str-P of inivdeaase  hr  lgio  qantar.
different dfftuitio   of -rh-  trn  eay effect copcblt   f data                                n  t:heir  i  seal    A boarder or lodgeX     a   rynth  ioinded in
sane  tountrin..  19h, 1970, ae  1979 data,                                                   the bo... hoid foe   toeia   upes
Paeelattu in you  2i00 -Care-otpulin e-rontio tIn  haad to i9go                        her of person  par tor  I  all urbn. n-4 roa ... otupiad onsoa
tonal ppulatior by ago nod sea end their  ottc.         n  fertIlity rDe.daito.rseriey                                 Irllinga  ald  noon-ee e  st-etraad
Projncttn  Parseate   fe- ert-lity taaacoprss of the-na le-ni  asn-untoPied pJte
Ing lots  aretanr  at birth i-noing with -ornteye per capita Ioose                       Are.. to  loe-cr  ("trcet of dwe ia    - total uran an  ra-al-
1leve, and fanl. lif a               -bntao iaaeli.ing at 77.05 year. PThe .aa .....en-ioulAsliasof   aisce-rirdhItyt  liie-ee  quater  a  Per-untgs.
eater  f-r ferti ity  rtet aler he. vahthe-  leai. eain  declina it                         of Itotl.  urho, end rural d,eolieges. pote
f-rtilitTerror diog to Incn  leve  nod peat fanily pl.i sin  pee-f-tsne
Seth country Is  hensio         oe th  thee Onacostotios of e"rtaliey                  EDUCATION
and fertility trunda frpiconupos.Adiusted t-Ooll-at entire
Stertasepe- oanlatier - In   scatirunry ppulattor Oboea ta or growhetno    PrMary ohool -. totl. eal sa  falIa-io... troal. ss sad f-1.l
the  irrhrat  ia  qualto  he dath  ats  andals thet  i   age trutr  r-in ie                      of al   ge   t h  Prtayloiasprutgsofenptir
eaioecncet   Tie teahiavd only after fertility ree   elu   opri-ay schoo-age popltIaton; unrely iolad.e childe-ar agd 6-11
the e-plareeet levl of uit o_  rrpe-entioc rte.  qhna each ga aitn                    years hor edJsted frr dif fee-se  laSth-n    of pre1-y edartion; fIr
eseinated on he basis of to probe-ted  har-c i.titOc  of the IPopultiac            aoe san  Ppil. ar  ble  or ahav  tha afiota  soban  g.8
L. the run-  0000, adthe rtet of deoliea of f-rtility rats  orp.         e                 Sqon.  rnbat-   non.seeed faIn  - Cartad as above;  ned
set lern.                                                                                     educa.tion reuiesatl ta fou  r-r  of approed primary isaerncioe
Ter tniunyoourulatuis le e-sac   - The year whe  ettiouny potlati.n                             Pe-aidne guneri. ouaronl,o  tenher-ti nriae-Satrtioe- far psapil
siebabaerahed.                                                                       unily of 12 to i7 year  nf ag,torepenosouree   as-arly
P.Vnletire Dmnierseldd
Per sq. An. - gd-yse  pap1ltire pee -sure hil-o e  (100 haotae-e) of                          Vooai...   erilen  Ie-rut otfnndrl-ycnaa  inaItlaia
total au;1960  NAGi ed' 1979data                                                              inolade  obec    iedn.ril  oother Prar    hirb nper.t  iadepsd-
Par no. kn. aeri.. IorLland - lonpute  a  eb.. for ertuona  ln                                  setlT   rs  dee-ao of asoday teaitanon.
onlyl 16, 1970tan  1908 data.                                                              pui-eoerrto-rreo.ad  erd                            - Totalt eests  nciled In
Perelatir A Str-ta  (Warunlt  Chdldre  10-14 ec)  esnrit-a-ge (15-                                priay  n  atndr  twl divdd  b   aa    ftera   ith
heyear) . ad retired  (65 years and ero   epretg of eid-yaa  pno-t                              c....psaaning levls.
lto;10.1970. sod 1979 data                                                            nAltI llitr-cyrte fearcnel   Lite..... .dolts lebla to ran  and ante)
Poenlaton Oroeb Sean(peront) - toal - .nnaa _    races of totni ai-                   saer-etane of ere-l  &adt posslntion age  15 rear  an-oer
yearpo=ltiran for.  I I60   96-0,nd 1970-79.
Perino  trot   ae(oret     rbu- d-ano  groth rates tf urban papa-                           cogsmUnfia
latre   fr  90060  1g570, and 179-7.                                                Panene-n dare (-a tbaeean  onealation)- saes-cretore tr
Crda`1th  ae re tb2Y       aaad   A-1Ana  lire hierth  par thonsand of nid-,n-.                 rare seatin  lose then eight peron;  -aledee.        eas-a  b-.run  ae
cnodeSthat  orthaaad   - Annea death  per thoanund  of eid-y-e                                Usdi10 aeivasm    a   bnae   onagn   All typsof  -eaiv-r  far rAdi.
prp.lteaio; 1960. 1970. and 1979 data..bodat  to as._ra  pebli. per thunsad of pepeluton; sacldas an-
craI nrrd tole Ste -  regeabcof duaghtasas                          11 wl bear Lo               Iite..a.d rneves  n         nrn  end In y-ar  shargarn of tre
bar  .nelrPodtiva period if aaepreePreI     age- epeifitfc                                    note see to  ff_tot  da   for r_st years ear,st he reoparble . o
tilStymen  usull  firs-year avrana seieg I  1960.t1970,. ad 1979.                             seer coanen   haihs   teeig
PnIv  lnns -d        -aar. Annea (tee          Al - Ana t,or of ataor                         VSoieeferthenn   er.lna                   - TV r          feice  o  breadoat ta
at bSert-t-tontol davios  acdn- eair.- at antiosl faniy pl.-oane  p.ron-n.                    me-ra  peblir pee  h-..Audpelai; anleis  nelionead ITV    ev
?..lly plaunias _ User  (nrcea  of enoiad vaea  -,Prreateg  of: earnd                           In otarisad in years ebera-           nrn      of TV eats se  in efnot.
eaeof  hbald-bas-,Ig age (15-AU yoe1h   s   in-ot                eIces to                 ssne   i-aslni.reeaedeeltn-                            steaeaeoe
peliate  dvedpamriyto  marling genera  e .It L.oeades
FOM AMS UUTSITIO                                                                                  to he "dily' if it ap-se-a  tles  fn  tin.  ay
teAs of Peed PredctiM   e   eia(907-01-Idno   a   aiaaeal                                     uaAea   .tne   a  aiaerTa      ae  an iba nabe- af
pe-oduaci  onf all fudoo   aiin         rdote   aldnaad__1o_      and X1fee1_-d I sa          ihr   uddre   h   er   mldn   dfee todive-S  eea
Ia oncaedo -Tn  bosie.  C-aditiun =eLrpri-ay goda (e.g. aegr-se                                d tebis anti..
incesa  of  c-at) thlob are  dibl. an  rutan  ote-teat  (e.g. taff.e adO
tea are alded).  Agregate pre-emtio  of each  -roer  isJ. n  on                          t.LABO  FORMC
untinel  -veag  Prodnoer prit. eight.; 1961-65, 1970,ad17dt.                                ouLbrtro(heasa  - 1-oseially noanve P.-e. geldise-
Pen melts  -.ral  Of raLfriu  (raenco  relat    - GCeopsen... fe-os-a   e-on  sd  -elaysd  het nleieg b-eai-s. etnidnt,  to...
_earn  eqivalnt of et fend eaIle   valbaS  coutry par raeire                               tes-Sag pnpeiaee at all se-n.  Sefilins- in wee-ie  -uan.iL..
perday.  AmuSable enppliescaprs  d-enti  prodnotan. ispote lse-e  teoparble; 1960. 1979 an  1979 dana.
= tprn.jend changa  in atak.  Sat nePplise entld. -1gn   f sd,sed,                       !sje-.(n5 i)-Pletbr  rr  a   ntanee   at ntoltube  tee-re.
q Ioti   need in fend  -c-Log, n-.ad ILon. In dintibotiun. Inquir-                    Ag,jSs.geba-               Lbor tarts In I.-n.ig  tnreey. %-rIng ne
ate tern   i-anecd by taO b.ace  re phyailelgi-al needs. te- Inre  soil-                 fihn-a   eone of tota  tuber toe-..; 1960. 1970 -A1979 data.
vlyenhalob teaieine"g- anroenat             narte    body seighte, ag                   ldWITn  0 N-tat)   Labar fterr  ineot.   tanarveottun             aetwr
-an  na  dianrib-onir  of  pt""'icNad  leve   10 par-see for eases an                      an   lo      ny   rpadgag an Pe-r.s-nM of teol. Ieb.r ta...e; 1940.
hennbed  eva; 90 165  1970, and 19717 data                                                 1970 nd 1979 data.
Per _aitned   at ortin (none ea  day) -  reei  oena  of per c-Pat.                         Peniiti 1-      ae(no   n      utl  ae a             an-Pnrtioimtiano
an  npply of trod pe   ay    e  spl  of feed is dfSd as above. Ia-                        otvity re..er  .a.ea aNO         ea.   l.a towI leI inbe  feeanu
q.t   aefor all -oties eat.blisbed by U915 Proide fer elaist                               pe           ofte  at ttl. eas  e  gl   popeiaeiee of all e-ss "eepetivelY9
alosac  of 60 St-  ot tonal e-rnio per day and 20 nr.    of eamlad                          1960. 1970. a-W 1979 4dat.       Ths   r   ec-ia   L      _ etInSpti   rege
paI=eprt.in. at ebhi  15 ge-s  aheld be anima  pe-ntsi.  Theen nen                          efle-nic- = ees  egatmar  at th   pe-s               A   L-ane tie. ta. A.
ar.aae   a   te  these at 7  ge-   oE total protei  end 23 ge-a of                         f_n an      _mane eve _a  _en_on   _era.-
anilproei  as -n.veag  tf- the se-ld. peaadbe- PAO in ehe Cird                           99,:M b=y  9g5I   taia ad pae-nltian ada   15 end6   ne  ee
WIdel Food ges-re; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.                                            ententl  aad.             e
Pir s-     ... ertain e-l feu alled ean - Pouteg   epe-ly of feed an-
ne-e  fe-a                                   P.eendpeaaS   raprdy  19-65, 1970  ed  9 dn
agegrep1-6 ysee lta ebtdra  in thla age  grAp1 fe-set.P. tbe-elpe   ramrst  orett   ene*.re  9   eene.tnd  an-sen 60 pennat
teledte durived fe-a  life eabla   1960. 1970 and 1979 data,f  at                                ..seWAd..
rteiitv Use ieee- tbaaaed) - Aneal isetba f  i-n fatsen-uayr Ieonon- t                   WIl-gPeev                  us eaia-e-eadr l-
o?ae-e par theead live birtb .                                                        n&ne-Id g    pass-ny _____             tnee Isv_i. Sihaain
nensrba 0te  f ran Ioteen   be-eble  ne-ri'e-a.f       alaysls   s                    lnirttv   eet  neem    in'.-t                          of~g.sa   a. t peeI-".
peenee-s  tthi reeativ    eeain.i   eabas-eapbg                                                 aenlSeee                 enr.Pt   ee   ndvvdf                        ea
Aae-ta  fs e,nn-vl lunrteta at.  l                Wiaet.n -.ntl n-be  a t meal-
pnrn_t.ee   taerrestv ofp anaa.teen  depen  ea  tealed
nba  alletle MId dinle-seal, pith             O er  iteseere -. e   L.  -earrena                               =        -   4      st         e- geaig  Usqagiva
f-lee   Satl.at "e.                                                                                                                              Usy140
P---tm-of U",-Peetian divided- by  .e    at PvaaIue-7  e-&yai
peunlatia.    - ear  eo inape-se.  It P-eana  divd-   b    e    ef  preetuon
seedtale b gredens nrsec   p -nenaua   we-   o  a            Ti      d. ad a=  nnant  ee-sea






.476-1                 -1.77           -74-47-04-,n-,-04-+8-++-61978
1986        1977        1978         1879        li80         1981        7975         7990        1972-76         1976-87         s981-85        19-5-90         .Th+,+of
191l11+n IIS S .7 13787+6 pric+
4.   6DY                                     1474.8      3767.0       17)1i7.8     4176.0      178B2.6      44D5.5      5218.6      6759.4          3.2             4.9             4.03          9.              130.7
Z.   9,7,. frum5 2T-                                      +344.5       .-6.3       -17.6       -62.1       -161.1      -159.11      -191.2           .
3.   071                                     3674.1       4111.5      4124.1      4158.6       4220.5      4229.5      1797 8       6568.2          1.9            4.4             4.2            5.4             120.6
7.   4. 7N7.                                 21703.7      1307.3      8621.6       1366.1      7413.7      17.5         261467.5    1782.7        -3.2    4.5                      2.7            I.,              39.8
5.   1+7+7.4.. Yol 748                       1177.6       109+I4 4    106.7       10+5.4       8.75        2171.1       1449.6      144.2           5.8             0.4            5.9            6.1              27.1
3.  817+76.. 72 486+8478                     1727.6       7438.9      8130.5       1027.8      1771.-,     1707.6       1290.6      1737.9        -0.8            -1.5             5.4            6.4              17.7
7.  1444476+ _17-  .20d+8-.                   -2462       -138.6       490.9       316.3       301.7        877.7        171.7        25.2           .               .              .              .I.O
8.  87141 27484.741. 7                       2741.7       3021.1      3426.8       9610.1      3742.9      3718.4       2884.9      519B.0         1.2             4.2             1.9            4.5              B4.0
8.   -+7N7 nt                                 773.3        75l.8      1168.2       774.6        849.3       794.4       71)71.9     1395.1        -3.2              4.9            4.6            5.4              2.
15         - 84887+.1 B                        724.6        766.7       875.1       578.7       466 3        557.1       561.3       1336.1        -0.4            -1.5            11.1            9.35
11.   7+.,..77c 84+16g.                        727.6       1090.4       677.3       S4R.3       477. 9       571.7        B94. 7     1370.2         4.1            -6.4            11.4            8.9              16.
12.   677? *44 c48o43  9 2S $3474.1                        4403.5      5324.1       6037.3      4912.6      2721.9     17037.6      19887.7         13.7           -72.            18.4           10.7
786474 oE     A 118+7971 p,0,+.1
1.   -.+4f,eto7l+85+nd,7,y                     11.2         17.0        17.9         18.7       16.6         78.7        19.0         20.7         2.4                             4.8
7.   A+ ..I1.....                              37.9         38.3        37.0         36.0       35.3         35.1        34.2         32.          2.3             3.4             3.6           6.7
3.  Oth                                        45.9         64.6        44.6         45.3       46.0         46.1        46.8         47.5         3.3             6.1             4.7            5.6
7.6prt   00.0  143.5     132.1       145.5      112.7        172.2        236.7       337.2        17.1            11.4             B.3            7.3
Z.   6.764774144      4 f710n ID9.D                        809.2       127.9        149.3      377.1        134.7       074.1        3-7.1        25.0            14.9             9.2           6.
3.  78-+  61 -+Id,                            100.0        131.4       103.7         97.5       71.3         86,1        B3.3        84.9           .
4.   07r 7.84.17+  1(7 31                     107.0        119.3       130.6        164.7      161.+        177.5      219.5         194.2        23.9            78.2             6.S           5.0
707 978     Y                            2.392        2.416       2.578        2.675       Z.6b77
1D72-76        7976-8           1387-5          196-7
2.  7601                                                    7.1            7.7              5.0             3.9
2.  5+7771 1244117117_-1.4                                                -3.5              0.1             9.7
3.  Av8. 6e D3+44,7771.77179  1418                         10.7           17.7             15.9            18.N
..44         ...38   8.o1. gs 741.                    17.7            13,9            75.1             19.7
5.  8ar1471+6  8417+4.1 14+4+84846                          0.41          -0.76             0.17            3093
6.  7+77+14:118                                           37.3            54.2             87.0            27.0
7. 59+4,14+467437                                         23.9            87.6            81.7             21.4
B.  8.,7++c, 4.77677                                        3.21           5.0              5.1              1.7
F,  8+7847+4774                                                  1975           1976             1977             1978            1979
1.  6,4+7 77464 87a1+                                  6,40,011 
7.  d48. 6.71+87+78                                      819,277        057,532          912,900         911.00           3972,300
7.    46 224 78+4744                                          9178173        1973/74          192477           1975/76         1976/77          1977178          197S/7977            17797
111 477117+9
0. 1 Rec,r+.nt R6v+44                                      147.7          187.9            096.3            769.2           314.1            471.4            480.1                570.5
2. 4+47+471+7+488664+                                     139.6           161.7            807.4           741.7            285.1           470.1            467.3                572.O
3. 44+7)77,4  967716+                                       .5.4          .27.7            +18.7           -17.4            +17.1            +71.3           -22.8                +68.5
4. 17+47+7+4.+6 7762814 64+774444 477
71th.7 86,4+8547+, 9+4.471+                            2.6            7.3              -               -                6.4             0.8              0.5                  0.0
8.  7++.+an 14,78+                                           0.7            3.2              8.2              7.0            10.5              9.0            13.3                 18.1
7+741477476t 84747916444                             10.5            31.9             27.4            27.4             47.7            Bl.7             76.7                 84.4
7. l+++l+p+++4 8+780844,4..                                61.7            87.4             74.0           127.3            124.7           199.7            226.3                23.69
8. 8++++17 7,19+44                                         -52.8          -35.3           -16.8            _96.7            -77.7          -173.1           -183.7               .157.0
774,84                                  7.78~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5      -3.   6.              --                -~              -                -0
9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z 7N30Ly                                                                                                                     16.e eiit                                                        6
139744444 1+.  141+74n                               44.0             9.1            12.4             3.77.           Z9.7            -289 30. 6BS1.
Drl2t.    8  72
Ch.6  .  in  Cash BalAnce ............. +1 5 +1.6 la.4 s IZ.O +S.B _2B.3 55.3 _~~~~~~~~~igil






-23-                                                                                                             ANNEX I
KENYA
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(US$ Million)
Actual                   Preliminary                                                  Projection
1976           1977           1978           1979           1980           1981            1982           1983            1984           1985           1990
A.   Susoary of Balance of Payments
1.   Exports (incl. NFS)                                                     1131.7          1572.1        1475.5          1567.6         1821.0         2069.1         2364.7          2720.2         3115.3          3559.0         6667.8
2.   Imports (i-ol. NFS)                                                      1132.9         1441.4        2085.7          2020.7         2517.6         2707.3         2955.2          3301.2         3691.2          4124.3         6952.1
3.   Resource Balance                                                           -1.2          130.7        -610.2          -453.1         -696.6         -638.2         -590.5          -581.0         -576.9         -565.3          -284.2
4.   Net Factor Service Iscome                                                -137.4         -143.8         -142.4         -142,3         -178.5         -221.9         -269.2          -308.0         -347.3          -395.6         -602.0
4.1  Net Interest Payments of which:                                           -34.7          -12.1          -15.9          -55.5          -88.2         -122.2         -144.4          -168.8         -192.0          -222.9         -307.8
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                                  (-1.7)         (-21.3)         (-5.2)        (-27.4)       (-106.8)       (-129.2)        (-154.8)       (-183.4)       (-210.7)        (-246.5)       (-364.7)
4.2  Direct ISvesteent Income (Net)                                           -113.8         -143.8         -176.5         -142.5         -'49.6         -157.1         -165.0          -181.5         -199.6          -219.6         -353.6
4.3  Workers' Remittance (Net)                                                                                50.0           55.7           59-3           51.4            40.2           42.3           44.3            46.9
4.4  Other FPeter Service Income (Net)       )                                  34.7           12.1                                                                                                                                     59.4
5.  Ctrrent Transfera (Net)                                                     14.6           71.3          103.1          105.6          140.6          180.3          202.4           227.3          255.2           286.6          491.6
6.   Balance on Current Account                                               -124.0           58.2         -649.5         -489.8         -714.5         -679.9         -657.3          -661.8         -669.0          -674.4         2394.7
7.   Private Direct Investment                                                 22.9            17.9         67.7           87.0             95.8          122.4          134.6           148.2          163.0           179.3          288.8
Poblite N & IT Lloans
P.bisbursements                                                           87.2           8             181.0          193.9          351.1          512.0          440.6           584.0          490.0          515.0           707.8
Dt ishur-eents                                                               87280.7                        1.199
9.   Amr-,tization                                                             -19.4           -1.7          -21.0          -26.3          -31.7          -47.2           -59.6          -86.3          -94.8          -121.6         -228.6
10. Net Disburseents                                                            67.8           79,0          159.9          167.5          319.4          464.9           381.0          497.7          395.1           393.4          479.2
Private M & LT Loses
D. Disbursements 1/                                                           127.9          115.2          208.9          295.4           168.2          144.4          310.2          289.0           427.6          517.0           424.4
12. Amortization 1/                                                             -1.9           -1.5          -48.3          -47.7         -109.6         -148.3         -173.6          -213.1         -243.8          -333.9         -643.1
13. Net Disbursements 1/                                                       126.o          113.7          160.6          247.8           58.6           -3.9           136.6           75.9          183.7           183.1         -218.7
14. Use of IMF Resources                                                        19.8          -54.8            8.0          -10.0           73.3          146.5            65.1            -               -              -            -30.0
15.  Sho-t-ter-  Capital Transactions                                           -5.0            7.7           35.0          187.0                                   -              -               -                                     -
16. Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                                                -2.6           -4.3           25.1            0.0                            -              -              -                              -              -
17. Change in Reserves (- = increase)                                         -104.9         -217.4          193.2         -189.5          167.4          -50.0           -60.0          -60.0          -72.9           -81.5         -124.7
B.   Grants and Lose Commitments
1.   Official Grants                                                           40.3            40.0           40.0           40.0           40.0           44.0           48.4            53.2           58.6            64.4           82.2
2.   Public M & LT Loans                                                      210.6           356.7          537.1          566.2          562.4          532.5          839.6           864.1         1036.7          1105.1         1242.1
2.1  IBD                                                                      31.0            84.0          156.0          110.0           92.5          111.5           167.5          215.0          207.5           165.0          204.1
2.2  IDA                                                                        14.0           36.0           61.0           27.0          184.8          110.0           120.0          107.5          115.0           107.5
2.3  other Multilateral                                                         10.7           67.1           44.3           57.0           50.0           27.3            29.7           32.4           35.3            38.5           590
2.4  Governments                                                                35.5           69.0          173.9          136.7          125.0          189.6           205.7          223.3          242.4           263.1          397.7
of which, centrally planned ecnomies                                    0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0
2.5  Suppliers Credits                                                         56.5            19.4            0.0            0.0           30.0           30.0            50.0           52.5           55.1            57.9            0.0
2.6  Financial Institutions 2/                                                  62.9           81.2          102.0          235.5           80.1           64.2           266.7          273.4          381.5           473.1          404.2
2.7  Bonds                                                                       0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
3.   Other M & LT Loans (where available)                                        7.5            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
C.  Memorandum Items
1.   Grant Element of Total Commitments                                         23.0           36.5           34.9           35.0           45.9            46.5           28.3           33.6            25.8           23.2            38.6
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                                                   6.4            5.2            8.5            8.5            4.1             4.9            6.4             6.0            6.6            6.9             5.3
3.   Average Maturity (Years)                                                   17.5           25.6           31.U           3U.0            30.2           28.8           19.9            21.9           18.4           16.5            24.9
1/  Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1980-1990> on commer-iat terms.
FAN CPIA
2/  Occludes comitments on gapfill.                                                                                                                                                                               June 6, 1981






-24-                                         ANNEX I
Debt /1 and Creditworthiness
Actual                 Estimated
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
A.   Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed only)
(US$ Million)
1.   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)             100.5    917.1   1290.7   1616.7   2189.2
2.   Including Undisbursed                                  1331.2   1700.4   2343.7   2841.9   3470.9
3.   Public Debt Service                                     -49.4    -57.3   -121.9   -118.2   -248.1
3.1  Interest                                                -23.9    -32.4    -52.6    -68.2   -106.8
4.   Other M & LT Debt Service                                  ..       ..
B.   Debt Burden
1.   Debt Service Ratio                                        4.4       3.6       7.8       8.4      12.9
2.   Debt Service/GDP                                          1.4       1.3       2.3       2.0       3.6
3.   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                    6.6       6.1      10.5       8.4      14.9
C.   Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                           3.4       3.5       4.1       4.2       4.9
2.   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                              7.1       6.2       9.4       7.3      11.3
D.   Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                  15.9      16.1      17.5      23.3      20.6
2.   Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                         11.6      12.1      14.2      19.6      15.0
3.   Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                         72.6      75.2      81.0      84.3      72.8
E.   Exposure
1.   IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements             37.0      44.5      14.6      10.7       9.9
2.   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  15.0           22.6      20.1      16.4      27.9
3.   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                       24.2      37.7      25.2      22.2      18.4
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 22.0      34.2      35.1      31.4      29.4
5.   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     29.7      31.3      21.0      28.6      13.4
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service               31.5      33.2      22.1      29.9      14.1
/   Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50% of EAC debt.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             A!?unt (Less Cy7cellations)
Credit #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                             Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Sixteen (16) Loans and seventeen (17) Credits
fully disbursed                                  266.68          179.72
477       1974  Kenya        Livestock                                         17.50      9.51
537       1975  Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50      3.67
1105       1975  Kenya        Sites and Services                 8.00                      3.60
1167       1976  Kenya        Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                        2.41
1184       1976  Kenya        Third Education                   10.00                      8.47
( 650      (1977 (Kenya        (Integrated Agri. Development                     10.00    ( 4.14
(1303-T    (1977 (Kenya        (Integrated Agri. Development            10.00             (10.00
1304-T     1977  Kenya        Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00               9.68
( 651      (1977 (Kenya        (Rural Access Roads                                4.00    (  .10
(1305      (1977 (Kenya        (Rural Access Roads                4.00                    ( 4.00
1389       1977  Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                25.00                      6.39
( 692      (1977 (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                                20.00       1.39
(1390-T     1977 (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                         5.00             C 5.00
1438       1977  IDB          Third Industrial Dev. Bank        20.00                      7.50
( 722      (1977 (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.00    (  .92
(1449      (1977 (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                    (34.00
750       1978  Kenya        Small Scale Industry                              10.00      8.80
1520       1978  NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.00                     22.72
( 791      (1978 (Kenya       (Second Urban                                      25.00    (22.72
(1550      (1978 (Kenya       (Second Urban                      25.00                    (25.00
797       1978  Kenya        Fourth Education                                 23.00      20.34
1636       1979  Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation              72.00                     68.11
1637       1979  Kenya        Rural Water Supply                20.00                     19.89
858       1979  Kenya        Narok Agricultural Development                    13.00     12.41
1680       1979  Kenya        Telecommunications                20.00                     15.88
1684       1979  Kenya        Highway Sector                    90.00                     87.82
914       1979  Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00      26.19
959       1980  Kenya        Second Integrated Agri. Dev.                     46.00      45.66
962       1980  Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                      6.50      6.06
1799       1980  Kenya        Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                    17.18
1817       1980  IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank       30.00                     29.07
1045       1980  Kenya        Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50      4.50
1051       1980  Kenya        Fisheries                                         10.00     10.00
1107       1981  Kenya        Fifth Education 3/ 4/                            36.70      36.70
1976       1981  Kenya        Railway 3/                        58.00                     58.00
(1143      (1981 (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture 3/ 4/                          10.00     10.00
(1995)     (1981 (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture 3/             25.00    -        -       25.00
Total                             812.68 32.00  456.42    682.83
of which has been repaid          43.89   -       2.50
Total now outstanding             768.79 32.00  453.92
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81    .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/           768.79 32.00  453.92
TOTAL undisbursed                           435.04 24.68  223.11    682.83
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/   Not yet effective.
4/   IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR-s.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                          135.80
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Second Harbours          35.00          0.52
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Third Harbours           26.50          0.35
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Third Telecom             32.50          0.28
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Second Dev. Finance    15.00            3.27
Total                                          244.80          4.42
of which has been repaid                     68.64
Total now outstanding                          176.16
Amount sold                       24.36
of which has been repaid    24.36           0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                      176.16
Total undisbursed                                4.42          4.42
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
C. Status of Projects in Execution 1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2/
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.5- million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982 3/
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number
of policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. Agreement was also reached
between the Government and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) with the
Association that since the total amount of the credit could not be utilized
even with the proposed new closing date, the Government would request a cancel-
lation of US$4.0 million and a re-allocation between categories in Schedule 1
of the Credit Agreement, once the conditions were met. Although the cancella-
tion is now effective. the other amendments have not come into effect, since
the counter signed letter of amendment from AFC has not yet been received.
3/_
Credit No. 537-KE-- - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. The progress of rehabilitation of
existing project farms is encountering a variety of legal, social, political
and financial problems. Despite project efforts to recruit qualified farm
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/   Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on Dec-
ember 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be utilized.
3/   The new closing date will be effective once the countersigned letter from
AFC is received.
4/   Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981, retro-
active to November 30, 1980 at Government request.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
managers, most of the farms continue to suffer from inadequate financial and
operational management. The majority of project farm group owners would like
to subdivide, but are constrained by large debts for common assets and by the
absence of a clear Government policy and guidelines on legal subdivision of
group farms. Although rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee
estates, seems to be proceeding satisfactorily, the Bank and the Government
are jointly reviewing the project objectives in light of difficulties encoun-
tered, and the Government has undertaken a study of the financial impact
of various alternative solutions to the financial problems of group farms and
will review the implications of sub-division for the regions concerned. In
the interim, recruitment of additional farms has stopped, and the cancellation
of the total loan amount of US$7.5 million, at Government's request, has been
effected.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's long-term afforesta-
tion program target of 130,000 ha. of sawlog and 24,000 ha. of pulpwood
plantations by 1980. The credit and the loan are now fully disbursed. A
completion Report is under preparation. At completion, the planting program
was 35% below target due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
conditions as well as poor and deteriorating management. The building and
labor housing programs were considerably behind schedule. A number of the
Credit Agreement covenants were not complied with, notably regarding the
sawmilling sector, the national land use study, the gazetting of natural
reserves, the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs and the timely submission of
audited accounts. In the later years Government provided adequate budgetary
allocations. A Phase III project has been appraised.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The reorientation of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led
to a number of difficulties, low rates of credit repayment, and loanee
participation. Late release of credit funds has led to delayed application
of farm inputs, and expected yield increases were therefore not achieved.
Measures are now being taken to ensure availability of credit funds at the
appropriate time. The overall balance between numbers of loanees and
infrastructural support -- staff, storage and transport -- at cooperative
union level has been improving, and greater efforts have been made to improve
the input supply and marketing systems.
1/ Net of cancellation, an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Yields from outgrowers' cane have been projected somewhat higher as compared
with 1980 yields, and the actual 1981 production may well fall short of manage-
ment expectations if the amount of rain and distribution of rainfall is not
favorable. All civil work is virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and major road works are proceeding satisfactorily. Certain weaknesses
in project management, particularly cane handling and transport, have become
apparent with sugar production, and consultants are being employed to rectify
this problem.  Although statutory sugar prices were changed in April 1981 by
about 10%, SONY (the Project entity) is experiencing serious financial diffi-
culties. KSA and SONY will review the situation to ascertain what financial
assistance will be required from Government and if the Bank's legal require-
ments have been satisfied.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15, 1977;
Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The closing date of the Project has been extended one year to
compensate for initial disbursement problems related to budgetary cutbacks and
cumbersome administration of reimbursement requests and to reallocate under-
utilized credit funds for medium-scale farmers and stockists to the small-scale
farmer category, where AFC commitments have exceeded appraisal estimates. The
balance of funds for onlending, about $3.2 million, is expected to be fully
drawn down by AFC by end 1981. The new, computerized accounts system is now
operational, and is being programmed to provide improved arrears reporting,
budgeting and financial control.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No supple-
mentary IDA financing is proposed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the Project, and has
now confirmed its intentions formally to the Bank. Developments in these
project areas are in suspense since the companies have not given evidence that
they have a viable financing plan and since the Government has not provided
detailed plans for the complementary field and infrastructural development.
Rehabilitation of the third factory has been held up by delays in the recruit-
ment of consultants; serious cost over-runs are expected. Cane supply is
expected to drop unless cane prices are significantly increased.  In spite of
the economic difficulties facing the sugar production sector, investments in
new factories are being projected. A study to review sugar marketing prospects
is due to start soon, and appropriate changes in project design will be
discussed immediately thereafter.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in developing
effective credit programs adapted to the special circumstances of the
traditional Masai farmers of the district. Land adjudication, initially an
obstacle to medium-term lending by AFC, is proceeding relatively well, the
construction of a central Farmers Training Center is finished, and project
staffing is nearly complete; however, project coordination and supervision of
extension services has been weak due to a change in the District Agricultural
Office (DAO) and the continued lack of an Assistant DAO. Disbursements for
seasonal and medium-term loans are likely to proceed more slowly than expected,
because of the need for intensive extension work and resolution of disputes on
land issues and credit terms. The Government has requested the reallocation
of some credit funds to other areas, including improvement of critical access
roads, and this proposal is under review.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated 1980/81 Government budgetary allocations, the first since the ULLult
Agreement was signed, to finance SCIP lending operations for coffee factory
rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However, most project
personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be fully qtaffed
shortly. Training has made good progress, but training programs need to bep
expanded and accelerated. Financial difficulties are expected to continue to
prevail in the near future, and whether Project infrastructure, equipment and
personnel will be utilized in an optimal fashion will depend on future Govern-
ment funding of the Project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
Project activities are proceeding well given the remoteness of the
project area and the pilot nature of the project. The internationally-
recruited technical staff and the local agricultural and livestock extension
staff are all in place. Due to the 1980/81 Government budget constraints,
allocations for the project were only a third of the amount requested and
approved in project Work Plans. This shortfall has had a particular impact
on construction of project housing, which is sorely inadequate, and the budget
for project field services, which consequently remain limited. Despite these
problems, the project team has launched a number of experiments in dry-land
and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management. Project demonstrations have attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities is increasing.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986.
IADP II faces many of the same problems as IADP I, mainly high
drop out rates of project recruited farmers and low credit repayment rates.
These problems are partly related to the inefficiencies of the farm input
delivery system, the financial and managerial weaknesses of cooperative
intermediaries, and inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholder
production. Supervision of the project has emphasized streamlining of the
credit and agricultural input delivery system and greater technical assistance
to cooperatives and the strengthening of the Ministry of Cooperative
Development's extension and audit services. IADP II provides significantly
more support than IADP I for infrastructure, including rural access roads,
rural water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conservation.
Most infrastructure components are in the planning stage with construction to
start in 1981/82. General delays in project implementation are expected due
to severe Government budgetary constraints, which have resulted in cuts in the
annual Work Plan programs.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980: Closing
Date: Septembar 30, 1987
Project start-up actitities are proceeding satisfactorily. The
Project Manager and key Area Managers have been appointed. An early problem
regarding a potential project overlap with a proposed Kenyan/Nordic coopera-
tive fisheries project was resolved in May 1981 by the Nordics withdrawing
from the project. A subsidiary financing agreement between the Government and
the Cooperative Bank of Kenya for the cooperative credit program is being
finalized. Recruitment of technical assistance for the fish farming center
and boat building components is scheduled to be completed by December 1981.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Government is taking measures to counter cost overruns and diffi-
culties in making available their financial contributions by, inter alia,
phasing activities in the project implementation period. The rate of progress
towards achievement of educational objectives is linked to the rate of progress
of physical implementation of the project. Minimal progress in preparation of
a new and appropriate curriculum has been made by the Kenya Institute of
Education, who has a leading role in improvement of primary education. Pro-
visions under the Fifth Education Project for strengthening the Project Unit
will likely benefit achievements by a more efficient management of implementa-
tion activities.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: US$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximately 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well as
the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding satis-
factorily.
1/
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project:  US$ 40.0-   million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
This Credit became effective on July 30, 1981.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0 mil-
lion Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Full scale operational capacity is now forecast for June or July 1981,
about 30 months behind schedule. Although there is a substantial cost overrun,
this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully committed to
earliest project completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local
currency, as needed. Regarding key personnel vacancies requiring the Ministry
1/   IDA Credit US$40 million equal 31.4 SDR at time of negotiations.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation
and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations,
by means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped eliminate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year end dry season,
and the project was formally commissioned in April 1981. The Closing Date has
been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The original project included 33 schemes but since two schemes
are proposed to be joined together and three schemes are being constructed
under other programs, only 29 schemes remain. The implementation is
about 18 months behind schedule due to late effectiveness and slow start
by the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in preparing studies for the
schemes. The training program is progressing satisfactorily; bids for
MWD vehicles and construction equipment are being evaluated; MWD's reor-
ganization has been generally implemented although some improvements are
still to be completed. Water tariffs were changed in April 1981, on
Presidential order and MWD will submit to the Bank computations showing the
impact on revenues and the covering of O&M costs.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these



- 34 -
ANNEX II
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which only 135 km were gravelled
due to the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The
decline of annual output and productivity of construction units, also due to
a shortage of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum
primarily because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that
was proposed by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980,
following the May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government-s Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused
a reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected
the project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau Summit-
Kisumu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road (81
kim) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years (1979-80).
Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the appraisal
target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor organization. Bitumen
is now being imported and four resealing units out of the six planned are
operational. The resealing operation is now progressing. The funds allocated
for road maintenance are about 15% below appraisal estimates but with better
organization and utilization of existing resources, the targets could be
achieved.
Loan 1976-KE - Railway Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981 following the receipt
of the Subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and Kenya Railway.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980, Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan
(S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under the loan has been
satisfactory. Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new
drill rig and accessories has been completed, and erection of the rig at the
site is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous
supplies and equipment have been purchased under International Shopping
procedures. The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule and
within the estimated cost.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
February 28, 1981, US$20.0 million has been fully committed and as at September
30, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its slow
implementation rate and high arrears of clients. The Association is seeking
Government assistance in correcting two problems, noted previously, caused
by the transfer in March 1980 of a loan portfolio from another DFC (ICDC):
(i) First, that KIE complete the reconciliation of the individual subloan
amounts stated in the transfer agreement with available documentation and
receive compensation for the doubtful debts in the portfolio; and (ii) Second,
a proposal to increase KIE's paid-in share capital to maintain the debt/equity
ratio below 3, the ceiling (3:1) of the IDA Project Agreement. As of September
30, 1981, US$3.9 million was committed for 73 subloans and some technical
assistance, to 57 subprojects, but only US$1.2 million had been disbursed.
About half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the remainder
allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Ten subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As at
September 30, 1981, US$14.9 million had been committed and US$930,000 had been
disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980, Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Bid awards for all
Bank-financed goods have been completed and contracts signed. Initial delays
in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has completed
the installation of a total of 960 lines of extension equipment in eight manual
exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 570 lines in four
exchanges is expected to be in service in 1981. KPTC has now completed design
of cable networks and buildings.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
'Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due primarily
to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000
plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastruc-
ture for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and construction of
infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin soon. Cost
recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now operational, but
designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule. One health center
is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against
its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank.
The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and
disbursements under the loan have started. Although loan disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly now that the construction activities are pro-
gressing satisfactorily, the Closing Date has been extended one year.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments



- 37 -
ANNEX II
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife (Con-
servation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second
and Third Harbour projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined consider-
ably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports
Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both countries is competent.
Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA has already been disbursed.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial
delays in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with
the relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now
been disbursed.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties
of the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact
on EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Fiscal Year       Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    22.2        6.3    28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4      -       2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0      -       2.0
1980           Development Finance       Development          -       1.3     1.3
Company of Kenya Ltd.      Finance
1981           Kenya Commercial          Money & Capital
Finance                   Market             5.0      -       5.0
Total Gross Commitments                   43.1    11.1    54.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   12.7      1.8    14.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC         30.4     9.3    39.7
Total Undisbursed                         10.1      -     10.1



- 40 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:                     8 months
(b) Project prepared by:                                  Ministry of Energy
(c) First presentation to Bank Group:                     September, 1980
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:                       May 1981
(e) Completion of negotiations:                           October 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                        March 1982
II. Special Implementation Action:
Advances of US$300,000 and $700,000 under the PPF were approved in
January 1981 and September 1981, respectively, to assist in preparation of the
project.
III. Special Conditions:
(a) Proceeds from the sale of promotion reports and results from the
aeromagnetic survey would be recorded in a separate account and
used for energy studies and surveys (para. 57).
(b) The Ministry of Energy shall retain, for the duration of the project,
the necessary qualified counterpart staff, including a project
director, a petroleum geologist, a geophysicist, and a financial
officer acceptable to the Bank (para. 56).
(c) The work program and technical specifications for the aeromagnetic
survey shall be acceptable to the Bank (para. 54, 2(a)).



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
Employment of exploration consultants                      May 1981
Bidding documents for aeromagnetic survey                  October 1981
Employment of accounting consultants                       November 1981
Completion of draft model agreement and regulations        December 1981
Enactment of proposed regulations and approval
of model agreement                                         January 1982
Initiation of aeromagnetic survey                          February 1982
First round of acreage bidding                             April 1982
Signature of first agreements with oil companies           Second half of 1982
Completion of aeromagnetic survey                          August 1982
Second round of acreage bidding                            June 1983
Signature of second round agreements with
oil companies                                              Second half of 1983
Final exploration report                                   February 1984
Closing date                                               August 1985



S UJ D A0,9 N   0   0   0   7   00   0  000  0  0  0  :  00 T ^ \\ .L_,,OMr SA
SUDAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
f ;= ,Sre-enrf'       z;0; E T H I 0  P VA                                -                  ,
/  |  0  >  3 X E t 4 t i 4 4 E ;44 = ;t ; ; 5 f 4 = gr FL~~~~~~~~~~~~AiZAIA~ iNPSAN
Kaka~~~~~~~~Lai                        .                                                       CA
_4.   ).                                                                                 / ;0 t    0 ;00 ==    '; & t     r
odk-
S =                         C i;  t E   goXe            . _ ' t  ok   - g.  = /  /
TANZANI                                                                                                                W A A/'
0  t      tv  le   v~~~S4or l        g oorl0                                                             5      X
PETROLEUM EXPORATIONPOO~RJ
INDIAN OCEAN
KILOMETZO Dr-  50                  m      l   y  (     Isl              -        '         -Q      '
A9   utee   Kk mg s\              %      /     }t(\o)\L                                                        R     W 
/   /   L ;   ;   y   $ > <   u r   \ 9 T } r r z v - 2 \   C   f   /   W   X J  -   i3    t         E   a~~~~~ba s
0  Y' / (X G 1X@: t ~~~~~~ ' r Llr ZSSLZ i = . E~~~4



