늬


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2065 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
ri),! 'to J;-4. -I')
AGREEMENT, dated                             1982, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the term "Advance" means the aggregate of the advance in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000) granted to the Borrower by the International
Development Association pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated July 17, 1980 and January 7, 1981 and the advance in
various currencies equivalent to seven hundred thousand
dollars ($700,000) granted to the Borrower by the International
Development Association pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
July 20, 1981 and September 3, 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lei.id to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-2-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Promptly after.the Effective Date of this Agreement, the
Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to the Associa-
tion, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the
accrued service charges and other charges, if any, thereon, of the
Advance. Any amount of the Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and the aeromagnetic survey to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31,1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal a.Aount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Energy, assisted by the Attorney General's


﻿-3-
Chambers for Parts B and C of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and petroleum industry practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation upon its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) employ for
the duration of the Project, a Project director, a petroleum
geologist, a geophysicist, and a financial officer whose qualifi-
cations and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank; (ii)
ensure the availability of qualified professional staff for
on-the-job training by the consultants and experts employed under
Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project; and (iii) provide adequate
local support personnel and services (including office facilities)
to the experts and consultants employed under the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts in
petroleum exploration, law and accounting, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, such employment to be made in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants
and experts in the performance of their services for the Project
and make available to them all information relevant to the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants and experts
promptly to furnish to the Bank copies of the documents prepared
by them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of
costs, in such number as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views
with the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations contained in
the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph and shall
consult with the Bank prior to the implementation of any programs
proposed to be initiated in light of such conclusions and recom-
mendations.


﻿-4-
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of the experts or consultants
employed under the Project, or grant any material extension of
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof,
or agree to any substitution of personnel of such experts or
consultants without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and areas included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, including without limitation to the fore-
going, quarterly and annual reports on the execution of the
Project in such format as shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-5-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Separate terms of reference shall be estab-
lished for any legal consultants who may assist the Borrower in
the negotiation of petroleum exploration and production contracts;
such consultants shall be employed only after the company or
companies with which negotiations are to be held can reasonably be
identified.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall forward to the Bank for its
approval a detailed work program and the technical specifications
for the aeromagnetic survey to be carried out under Part A.2 of
the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall inform the Bank promptly of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with Zhe
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Project, or the performance by the consultants and experts refer-
red to in Section 3.02 (a) of their obligations with respect to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and


﻿-6-
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower's Ministry of Energy shall
maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall have the separate accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied and shall
furnish to the Bank: (i) as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (ii) such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall record in a separate account all proceeds from the
sale of reports or information produced or obtained under the


﻿-7-
Project and shall make those proceeds available to finance studies
or surveys in the energy sector through annual or supplementary
budget appropriations for the Ministry of Energy as required.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date of                  , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By       \       i\~\
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Vehicles                         90,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
and 67% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Office and                       40,000        100% of foreign
laboratory                                    expenditures
equipment and
materials
(3) Training                        140,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Aeromagnetic                    750,000        100% of foreign
survey                                        expenditures
(5) Consultants'                  1,490,000        100% of foreign
and experts'                                  expenditures
services
(6) Refunding of                  1,000,000        Amount due
the Advance                                   under Section
2.02 (b)
(7) Unallocated                     490,000
TOTAL         4,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
tne Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5t   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in stimulating
further petroleum exploration in its territory by oil companies.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Data compilation and evaluation
1.   Compilation, evaluation and, if necessary, reprocessing
of existing data pertaining to hydrocarbon exploration
in the territory of the Borrower and integration of all
new data generated under the Project with existing
information.
2.   Aeromagnetic surveying of approximately 30,000 line-kn
in the southeast, east and northwest regions of the
Borrower's territory.
3.   Reprocessing of approximately 2,500 line-km of existing
seismic profiles.
4.   Processing   of Landsat imagery     for geostructural
interpretation.
5.   Execution of special studies, e.g. in paleontology or
sedimentology, and geochemical and log analyses as
necessary.
6.   Preparation of reports on the national petroleum poten-
tial for sale to interested companies.
Part B:   Preparation of legal framework
1.   Review of the Oil Production Act and the Oil Production
Regulations, and appropriate modification thereof,
in light of currently prevailing practices in the
petroleum industry.
2.   Preparation of model petroleum exploration and produc-
tion licenses and agreements.


﻿- 12 -
Part C:   Preparation, negotiation and administration of explora-
tion and production agreements
1.   Preparation of tender documents, promotion of offered
blocks, and evaluation of bids for acreage.
2.   Negotiation of petroleum exploration and production
agreements.
3.   Administration of exploration and production agreements
and monitoring of companies' activities.
Part D:   Accounting
Design, establishment and operation of an accounting
system within the Ministry of Energy to enable it to monitor
the expenditures incurred by petroleum companies.
Part E:   Training
1.   Establishment and implementation of a program for
training outside Kenya of selected staff of the
Ministry of Energy in techniques, management, contract
administration and other activities relating to petro-
leum exploration.
2.   On-the-job training of Ministry of Energy staff in all
aspects of petroleum exploration and production
administration.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1987
through   July 1, 2001                      135,000
On January 1, 2002                                85,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in, a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined a6 for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                              3.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                6.40%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                             9.30%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                           10.45%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                              11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The aeromagnetic survey to be carried out under Part A.2
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part .A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the aeromagnetic survey.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids: (i)
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the price and
payment terms for the work, the proposed methodology, and a
description of the equipment to be utilized; and (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation of equipment, or any other taxes levied in connection
with the performance of the work, shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Vehicles, equipment and materials shall be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1*   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 16 -
With respect to all contracts for aeromagnetic surveying:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    .     day of       , 198
FOR SECRETARY


