                                 64422 v1
             Document of
          The World Bank


                                     Report No:




       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

               ON A

  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF
SECOND POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
               LOAN

       BOARD APPROVAL DATE
           March 23, 2006


              TO THE

      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT


           August 12, 2011
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfD    Agence Française de Développement
EIB    European Investment Bank
EPAP   Egyptian Pollution Abatement Project
JICA   Japan International Cooperation Agency
NBE    National Bank of Egypt
PDO    Project Development Objective
PMU    Project Management Unit




          Regional Vice President:       Shamshad Akhtar
                Country Director:        A. David Craig
                  Sector Director:       Laszlo Lovei
                 Sector Manager:         Hoonae Kim
               Task Team Leader:         Maged Mahmoud Hamed


                                     2
                         Extension of Closing Date
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT — SECOND POLLUTION ABATEMENT PROJECT
                     P090073 {IBRD-73720}

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.    The closing date for Arab Republic of Egypt, Second Pollution Abatement Project
(EPAP II), [IBRD Loan 73720], P090073 will be extended from February 28, 2012 until
August 31, 2013.

2.      The project development objective (PDO) is to demonstrate, in the Egyptian
context, the applicability of market-based financial/technical approaches in order to be
able to achieve significant pollution abatement in selected “hot spot? areas in and around
the Alexandria and Greater Cairo areas. EPAP II is a co-financed project with the French
Development Agency (AfD), European Investment Bank (EIB), and Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) in the total amount of US$160 million, of which US$20
million is financed by the World Bank. The funds are utilized to finance industrial
pollution abatement sub-projects at industrial companies through the National Bank of
Egypt (NBE). Disbursement of the World Bank share has reached US$8.5 million (43%).
It is expected that about 90% load reduction in TSP and SO2, 95% reduction in BOD,
and 70% reduction in COD will be achieved once sub projects are completed. The PDO
continues to be achievable, and an extension of project closing date will allow
demonstrating the application of market based instruments for pollution abatement
investments at a large enough scale to warrant its duplication and scaling up in other
pollution hotspots, and to achieve a greater reduction of pollution in the hot spot areas
included in the project scope.

3.      EPAP II has generated significant interest as evidenced by the total sub-loan
applications of US$220 million, which far exceeds the total available funds of US$160
million. The current level of commitment totals US$136 million (85%) of available
funds. It is expected that disbursement will reach 65% of World Bank funds by the end of
the original project closing date of February 28, 2012, and 100% by the proposed closing
date of August 31, 2013. Despite the current good momentum of the project,
disbursement was delayed due to the long sub-project implementation cycle combined
with (a) the adverse impact of the global financial crisis that resulted in a 50% reduction
of the EPAP II project pipeline in early 2009; and (b) impacts of the January 2011 events
that resulted in delays to sub-project implementation and the bidding of new contracts.
However, the Project Management Unit (PMU) has made efforts to remove bottlenecks
in disbursement and invoicing at NBE and industrial companies and they continue to
perform at a very satisfactory level with commitment and dedication. They have
established a system for tracking allocation, procurement and disbursement. They also
have prepared a specific action plan acceptable to the Bank to complete the project. The
audit report for the year ending June 2010 was timely delivered and the next audit report
is due before December 31, 2011. The Bank team is confident that the PDO can be


                                            3
achieved within the new closing date and will monitor progress closely in order to make
sure that all remaining funds are disbursed as scheduled.

4.     This     will     be     the      first    extension     of     the     project.




                                           4
