 IEG
                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14753

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 05/08/2015

               Country: Egypt, Arab Republic of
             Project ID: P090073                                                 Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Second Pollution            Project Costs (US$M):         US$ 165.97M          US$ 173.24M
                         Abatement Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):              US$ 20.00M       US$ 20.00M
      Sector Board:       Environment                Cofinancing (US$M):             US $142.97M       US$149.36M

          Cofinanciers: European Investment          Board Approval Date :                                 03/23/2006
                        Bank;                               Closing Date:            02/28/2012            08/31/2014
                        French Development
                        Agency; and
                        Japan Investment
                        Cooperation Agency
         Sector(s):     Petrochemicals and fertilizers (35%); Other industry (35%); General agriculture; fishing and
                        forestry sector (20%); Solid waste management (10%)
         Theme(s):      Pollution management and environmental health (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy John R. Eriksson             Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Loan Agreement (LA) the objective of Second Pollution Abatement Project (EPAP II) is “to
demonstrate the applicability of market-based financial and technical approaches to achieve pollution abatement in
selected areas, particularly in and around the Greater Cairo and Alexandria areas.” ( Schedule #2 page#12 of the
Loan Agreement).
There was no change to the original development objective ( DO).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  Component I: A line of credit facility (Appraisal cost US$ 162.00M and Actual cost US$165.60 M)
This component focused on pollution abatement in major hot spots in the Alexandria and Greater Cairo Governorates
and the industrial sector at large. As per the Loan Agreement, the component was financed through the provision of
sub-loans by the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) and the participating banks. It focused on specific cost-effective
pollution abatement investments by beneficiaries to bring effluent discharges and air emissions of the said
beneficiaries’ existing facilities into compliance with the national environmental legislation, and promote overall
environmental performance of the industry beneficiaries.

Component II: Technical Assistance: (Appraisal cost US$ 7.60M and Actual cost US$ 7.64M)
This component aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency and other key
stakeholders, and provide project management support.
Carbon Finance Sub-program: No funding was committed nor was it included in the loan agreement (LA). It was
treated as a stand-alone Carbon Finance Operation and a separate ICR has been developed. The carbon finance
sub-program outcome is thus not rated as part of the present ICR for the EPAP II project, except to assess the
operation as part of the overall quality at entry of the project.

This sub-program aimed to assist the Government of Egypt’s efforts to set up a sustainable pollution abatement
program by using portions of the revenues from the sale to the World Bank and other buyers of emission reductions
generated under the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The role of the World Bank was to
monitor the use of the revenues generated from the sales of emission reductions and ensure that pollution abatement
activities were being implemented, using the Second Pollution Abatement Project as a model.
Changes during Implementation

CARBON FINANCE SUB-PROGRAM
The carbon finance sub-program did not develop as planned. First, the registration with the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) of the approximately 80 CDM projects in the pipeline took much longer
than anticipated at the time of appraisal. Second, the delay in registration caused delay in the sale of the Certified
Emissions Reductions (CERs) from eligible CDM projects, which by then were also challenged by the global financial
crisis. Third, most of the CDM projects were developed by other parties than the World Bank, and as a result the Bank
would not be a buyer of those Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs). Finally, the Bank-administered donor funds
available to purchase CERs were quickly fully committed until the end of 2012. For those reasons, the carbon finance
sub-program was not realized. While the component was never formally revised, it was agreed with the client to drop
the program during the mid-term review (MTR) in 2009. As mentioned above, no funding had been committed to this
component. ( Section #1.6 Revised Components of the ICR)

The Onyx Alexandria Landfill Gas Capture and Flaring Project (P098737/TF056124) was developed as a carbon
finance sub-program attached to EPAP II. The Project was de-linked from EPAP II, and a separate ICR submitted.
Therefore, this sub-program will not be rated as part of the subject ICR for the EPAP II project. (Section # 1.7 “Other
significant changes of the ICR”)

RESTRUCTURING
The Project was restructured twice.
The first restructuring on August 12, 2011 was a level 2 restructuring in order to extend the closing date from February
28, 2012 to August 31, 2013 due to the delays caused by the global financial crisis shortly after Project approval, and
due to the political upsurge in Egypt beginning in January, 2011.

The second restructuring on June 24, 2013 was also level 2 in order to (a) extend the closing date from August 31,
2013 to August 31, 2014 to complete Project activities, and (b) revise two intermediate performance (IO) indicators to
comply with the delay in CDM projects that did not move forward in a timely manner.

This involved: 1) dropping the indicator “A framework agreement is established between the Environment Protection
Fund (EPF) and at least one commercial bank during project implementation”, and (2) modifying the indicator “At
least 7 million CERs are purchased by the World Bank by project end,” to instead “tracking the amount of CO2
reduced from the EPAP II subprojects,” the CO2 reduction target for which was set at 550,000 tons.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Costs:
The estimated cost at appraisal was US$ 169.50 M. The actual cost at completion was US$ 173.24 M (Annex 1 of
ICR).

Financing:
The total Bank financing was US $ 20.00 M and the disbursed amount was US$ 20.00 M. (100%)
Borrower Contribution :
The original borrower commitment was US$ 3.00 M, but the actual contribution was only US$ 1.68 M (Annex 1 of
ICR).

Dates:
The project closed on schedule on 08/31/2014 instead of 02/28/2012 as planned at appraisal.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
Project objectives are as relevant today as they were at the project conception and preparation. This is evident from
the strong interest for an EPAP III project, which was recently signed by Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
(EEAA)/National Bank of Egypt (NBE) and not financed by the World Bank. The EPAP 3 builds on the progress
achieved in EPAP I and II. The need to improve the environmental performance of heavy polluters and bring them
into compliance was a high priority for the GoE at the time of appraisal and still is today as is evidenced by the
EPAP-III.

In January 2011, Egypt erupted in large-scale anti-Government demonstrations, resulting in the collapse of the regime
that had been in power for 30 years. Subsequent to this, and given the political and economic uncertainties facing
Egypt in the near term, the Bank Group developed an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) as an indicative program of support
over an 18-month period, from June 2012 through December 2013. Though this program was not directly targeted at
the environment sector, it pinned down the potential for private sector growth and job creation arising from opening up
new export opportunities in compliance with the international environmental standards.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
The Project design was based on a sound diagnosis of development priorities of both country and the Bank. The
Project built on EPAP I, which piloted the model of using a market- based instrument to finance pollution abatement
investments in an Egyptian context. On this basis, the design of EPAP II provided for scaling-up the demonstration
effect to achieve significant environmental results while working with industries to improve their environmental
performance. The design opted for close cooperation with the industries and allied industries to implement the best
available techniques in pollution reduction rather than relying solely on government monitoring whether emissions
standards were reached or breached. However, this to a great extent created complexity through the involvement of
many stakeholders.
With regard to implementation arrangements, the design opted for a two-tier PMU: A financial PMU
hosted in the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) and a technical PMU hosted in EEAA. The PMU at NBE, through a line of
credit, financed a Financial Intermediary Loan for pollution abatement investments through on-lending to other
commercial Banks. Financing would be offered to qualifying industrial polluters with a built-in grant element of 20
percent of the loan amount if the agreed pollution abatement was achieved at the end of the sub-project. Loans were
provided with a five to eight year repayment period and a one to two year grace period. The PMU at EEAA assisted
the industries in developing the required documentation that provided the foundation for establishing a baseline,
identifying targets, and coordinating the final verification of pollution abatement in order to release the grant.

The components were appropriately selected to enable achievement of the DO. The results chain was appropriate to
monitor achievement of the DO.
At an institutional level, the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) remains highly committed to the EPAP
model and to the design features introduced through the Project. The design adopted best practices in development of
procurement procedures, contract templates, safeguards requirements, and standardized Compliance Action Plan
(CAP) forms.
As part of the second restructuring on June 24, 2013, the profile of industries eligible for grants was broadened to
include the cement sector, cluster of SME brick manufacturers, and foundries needing to relocate. In addition, flexible
financial terms and conditions for NBE’s on-lending to participating banks was also introduced. The EPAP design
model was sustained through committed and modernized industries that made other environmental investments as
part of their agreed Compliance Action Plan( CAP), not financed by EPAP-II. These industries carried on mobilization
of donor-financing and on-going capacity building efforts to improve the technical capacity of EEAA, specifically in
monitoring and verifying industrial emissions and acquiring the best available techniques in the different industries to
abate those emissions. The EPAP design is expected to continue to mature under the third follow-on operation,
EPAP-III (not financed by the World Bank). The model has also been replicated in Lebanon.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The Development Objective was “to demonstrate the applicability of market-based financial and technical
approaches to achieve pollution abatement in selected areas, particularly in and around the Greater Cairo and
Alexandria areas.” . The original DO remained throughout the Project duration and there was no material change to
the formulation of the Project outcome.

Demonstrate the applicability of market-based financial and technical approaches to achieve pollution abatement in
selected areas, particularly in and around the Greater Cairo and Alexandria areas
Substantial
Outputs
a). Pollutants abated:
·- 91% average air pollutants abated (target was 75% reduction in pollution load for main pollutants generated by
industrial facilities in the selected hotspots; 121% of target achieved}
·- 97% average waste water pollutants abated (target was 75% reduction in pollution load for main pollutants
generated by industrial facilities in the selected hotspots; 129%t of target achieved}

b). 60,056 tons per annum of Particulate Matter (PM) reduced {target was 52,000 ton per annum.; 115% of target
achieved)
c). 917,500 people (48% women) with reduced exposure to PM emissions in Project area (100% target achieved)
d). 2 areas have an M&E benchmarking system in place at enterprise level, area impact level and institutional level,
covering at least two areas of Alexandria and Qalubyia (100 percent achieved against the original target)
e). 676,479 tons per annum of CO2 reduction from the EPAP II project (actual value achieved is equal to 123 percent
of the revised target.)

Outcome

For air pollutants, there was a total average reduction of 91 percent and for wastewater effluents, a total average
reduction of 98 percent.

The ICR cites several other "significant outcomes" in its discussion of Achievement of Project Development Outcomes
that were not covered by PDO or Intermediate Outcome Indicators (page#20). It would appear that these outcomes
were not anticipated and are therefore mentioned in Section 11c below, "Unintended Impacts."

 5. Efficiency:
  Substantial
Economic and Financial Efficiency
The project carried out two sets of analysis. They are: unit cost per pollutant abated against benchmarks set at the
time of appraisal and second, a cost-benefit analysis of the internal rate of return (IRR) and the net-present-value of
each sub-project.

The results presented in the ICR are founded on the Borrower’s analysis, using software to facilitate calculations that
provided net savings, net present value, internal rate of return, and payback period. The borrower analysis covered
capital and operating costs/benefits reflecting changes in the productivity and shifts in water, energy, fuel and
chemical consumption before and after the sub-project implementation. Costs for site preparation, installation of
utilities and labor were also factored in. A summary of the results by sub-project type provided in Tables 16-19 of the
ICR demonstrated that end-of-pipe treatment for air emission controls, such as filters and bags had no financial
benefit despite some improvements in energy savings and industrial output. Companies viewed these types of
sub-projects as straight compliance expenditure. Instead, fuel switching and alternative fuel projects proved
financially attractive with high IRRs. Waste- water treatment sub-projects showed mostly negative IRRs despite the
fact that in some projects there was recycling of treated wastewater and product recovery. Process modifications led
to improvements in waste- water and showed IRRs of 2-14 percent.
As part of the Review, an estimate of the internal rate of return (IRR) had been planned in order to validate the
economic viability of the investments. The Review noted that total Project Cost by Component was $173.24 M as per
Annex 1, but total cost across all projects within Annex 3 were not consistent with the amount presented in Annex1.
For example, total cost of EPAP II - Sub-projects sums up to $188.36M (Table #16: Cost-benefit analysis for air
pollution abatement sub-projects). So, estimation of an ex post IRR was not attempted by the Review.

Administrative Efficiency

The two-tier Project Management Unit (PMU) structure was supported by a high level of ownership and a growing
technical capacity of dedicated staff members who were instrumental in generating the achieved outcome.
Throughout Project implementation the PMU at the Egypt Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) delivered technical
support to participating industries. From the initial application for funding through to the final verification of results, the
industries had access to technical support for developing compliance action plans, feasibility studies, procurement
documents, monitoring systems, etc.

The main implementation challenge for the PMU at EEAA related to the delayed completion of gap-filling measures in
the Equivalence and Acceptability Assessment (EAA) for using country systems in lieu of Bank safeguard policies.
Though the responsibility for aligning the country systems with the Bank requirements fell mainly on the PMU, certain
aspects of the delay were beyond the control of the PMU. In this regard the task team reported “Some of the required
changes in the use of country systems related to legal, procedural, and administrative matters, which were beyond the
control and approval of the PMU as they were under the responsibility of the general Ministry, and the PMU could only
push for the changes to be formally adopted. The Bank and PMU continued to follow-up on all agreed measures,
which were adopted, although somewhat delayed compared to the original timeline.”

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   While the ICR employs a split rating for Outcome owing to the second restructuring (see page #22), IEG does not
believe a split rating is called for. Even though two intermediate indicators were revised at the second restructuring,
this did not involve a change in the PDO or in key associated outcome targets. In any event, the rating of Outcome in
the ICR and by IEG remains the same.
The relevance of objectives and design are rated substantial. The efficacy of achievement of the project objective is
rated substantial. Efficiency is rated substantial. Given the above, overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There are two imminent risks in relation to institutional and environmental outcomes.
At the institutional level, there is a risk of obtaining continued funding for the EPAP model that is currently dependent
on donor-financing. According to the ICR, though the applicability of the EPAP model as a financial and technical
instrument to promote voluntary compliance action by heavy polluting industries in an Egyptian context was
convincing, there was still a need for establishing a sustainable financial architecture that will provide a revenue
stream for future pollution abatement activities.

At the environment level, there is a risk entailed by high maintenance costs, particularly for investments focused on
controlling pollution sources rather than eliminating them. The general lack of a “maintenance culture” coupled with
the high maintenance needs and costs, e.g. for replacement of bag filters, could pose a long-term risk to the
sustainability of achieved emissions reductions. Addressing this issue requires a long-term, multifaceted strategy to
introduce a maintenance and monitoring culture along with in-depth training requirements. The issue of monitoring is
particularly relevant with regard to the EEAA function of promoting compliance.

On the positive side, the high level of national commitment to sustain the EPAP outcomes and the interest of the
multiple donors and the government to push the EPAP model forward continues to be strong.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Project was based on an elaborate diagnostic foundation. It has taken into account the lessons learned
from the earlier EPAP, which among others was the criticality of focusing on the enforcement and
results-orientation of environmental improvement objectives. Both lessons were duly considered in the design of
EPAP II. Under the subject project, a stronger focus was made on installing monitoring equipment at various
levels at EEAA, leading to improved enforcement. It also allowed for project-level tracking of pollution abatement.
An ambitious objective was established to reduce targeted pollutants by 75 percent from participating industries.
The design also required generating Compliance Action Plans for further enhancement of the enforcement
function.

As a follow-on operation to EPAP I, the Project Management Unit (PMU) was grandfathered into the Project, with
much of the institutional set-up already in place. A well-structured Project Steering Committee (PSC) established
under EPAP I was in place since 1996. This benefitted the project not only from bringing on board a broad
coalition of members, but also from its prior experience in providing policy guidance to the PMU, approving work
programs and budgets, receiving project reports, resolving inter-ministerial implementation issues, reviewing the
status of sub-project selection and implementation and recommending changes to the Operations Manual.

The Project also enjoyed a high degree of readiness at the appraisal stage with a pipeline of pre-identified
potential investment sub-projects ready for implementation. Financial simulations were conducted to assess the
feasibility of the mechanism from the point of view of different stakeholders.
Though the Project itself was complex given the many stakeholders, the implementation arrangement was
well-structured with a two-tier PMU: A financial PMU hosted in the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) and a technical
PMU hosted in EEAA. Provisions for procurement, financial management, and safeguards were all adequate at
the design stage. The results chain was appropriate to capture achievement of the DO
The results chain was comprehensive to monitor the implementation of EPAP II subprojects at the industry level,
impact level, and institutional level and final verification of pollution abatement results. This in turn supported the
selection of pollution abatement investments that were eligible for financing with a built-in grant element of 20
percent of the loan amount if the agreed pollution abatement was achieved at the end of the sub-project.

Parallel to the pollution abatement investments piloted under EPAP I, the Bank sought to scale-up the approach
by introducing more ambitious goals, particularly related to building a sustainable financial architecture to ensure
continuity of a market-based approach to pollution abatement. The new opportunities presented by carbon finance
became an element at the Project design stage to generate a revenue stream for the Environment Protection
Fund (EPF) by charging a “sustainable development premium” from the sale of certified emission reductions to the
World Bank. While it provided an opportunity for the Bank to tap into the framework of sustainable financial
architecture, it proved challenging to implement. Further, the Bank team also did not adequately assess the risks
to completing this component and achieving its associated outcome indicators. Given that the Carbon Finance
sub-program, was part of the project until the 2009 Mid-term Review when it was delinked from the Project, the
Review has considered it for the rating of Bank Performance at entry

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank project team undertook 14 implementation support missions in 8 years, or 1.75
missions per year, a rate slightly below the originally planned two implementation support missions per
year. This according to the ICR could be explained on the basis of the tense security situation in the first half of
2011 (page #27 of the ICR).

The Bank team led implementation support of the entire Project on behalf of all co-financiers, given the central
role of the Bank in advancing the EPAP model. The Project was essentially designed by the Bank in collaboration
with the Borrower, and built on EPAP I, which was entirely financed by the Bank.

The Bank team dealt with the challenges that arose from the introduction of coercive lending terms in the wake of
the global financial crisis, and the delayed action on the part of the PMU to complete all gap-filling measures
identified in the EAA safeguards report. The Bank and other co-financiers took an active involvement in the
resolution of the coercive lending terms issue by revisiting the financial simulations undertaken during Project
preparation with numbers updated in light of falling global interest rates, the global financial crisis, the growing
interest for loans in local currency, etc On the basis of the analyses, new terms for lending and on-lending were
drawn up and agreed to by all stakeholders. To ensure fair terms for industrial borrowers, the Bank eventually
subjected all loan agreements to prior review before issuance. While some terms were easily adjusted, the issues
were only fully resolved in early 2012 ( page #10 of the ICR). The Bank team remained committed to, and focused
on, achieving the planned development outcomes in spite of the external challenges posed to the Project.

The supervision team reported on the quality of performance throughout implementation. Progress towards the
PDO was ranked moderately satisfactory in ISR 6 to 14, only to be upgraded to satisfactory in the last ISR (15) on
the grounds of full disbursement of the loan. However, two short-comings in Bank supervision were the delayed
‘no objection’ reviews to procurement documents in the early phases of implementation and delayed revision of
key outcome indicators. With regard to the latter, the carbon finance sub-program was cancelled in during the
mid-term review in 2009. The indicators were revised only during the second restructuring on June 24, 2013.

The Bank collaborated with PMU to address the issue of using commercial competitive practice (CCP). In this
regard, all contracts were subject to the Bank’s prior review and no-objection using commercial competitive
practice (CCP), national competitive bidding (NCB), or International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement
methods. However, during implementation differences arose over when to apply the different methods. The Bank
opted for contract processing using the NCB/ICB method rather than CCP. However, the bulk of EPAP II
sub-projects was submitted by private sector clients who used CCP. This led to long delays on approval of tender
packages in the early phase of implementation, with the result that several industries withdrew their participation in
EPAP II. The issue was resolved in 2009 when the Bank and the PMU clarified the terms under CCP, and the
Bank opened the application of CCP on a broader basis for private sector industries ( page # 14 of the ICR).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Government of Egypt ( GoE) continued to build upon previous efforts by the Bank to improve its environmental
management and showed a high level of commitment to the subject Project with timely adoption and ratification of
new legislation and regulations, such as Law 9.2009 and the Executive Regulations for Law 9.2009 to support the
environment sector. The GoE supported the Project throughout the project cycle, partly by appointing key staff
members and providing critical resources to the PMU management fee {US$ 1 million (Annex 1 of the ICR}.
Throughout implementation, the GoE retained good relations with all co- financiers and is building on this
collaboration to sign a new EPAP III loan with the National Bank of Egypt.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     The Project Management Unit (PMU) grandfathered into the Project from phase 1 of EPAP with much of the
institutional set-up already in place. Given the two- tier PMU structure, the financial tier at the NBE and the
technical tier at EEAA, the PMU enjoyed a high level of ownership by NBE and EEAA and growing technical
capacity of dedicated staff members, who were instrumental to achieving development outcome. Starting from the
initial application for funding through to the final verification of results, the industries had access to PMU/EEAA
technical support for developing compliance action plans, feasibility studies, procurement documents, monitoring
systems, etc. This technical arm of the PMU was instrumental in ensuring the soundness of the approach and
introducing the latest and most appropriate and most cost-effective technologies. The financial management
aspects were outsourced to the apex bank (National Bank of Egypt – NBE), increasing transparency and
accountability in management of Project funds.

The main implementation challenge for the PMU at EEAA related to the delayed completion of gap-filling
measures as identified in the EAA for using country systems in place of Bank safeguard policies. While certain
aspects of the delay could be attributed as beyond the control of the PMU, the responsibility for aligning the
country systems with the Bank requirements continued to be with the PMU. According to the ICR (page #29), the
PMU became a model for effective project management within EEAA.

The PMU at NBE demonstrated significant capacity for handling pollution abatement investments, and developed
a close collaboration with EEAA. A highly qualified financial management team effectively handled all aspects of
their fiduciary responsibilities. The ICR reported that throughout implementation there were no outstanding
Financial Management Reports (FMRs) or audit reports. The main implementation challenge for the PMU at NBE
related to the introduction of coercive lending terms during the global financial crisis. While the resolution of the
issue required intensive negotiations, it was eventually resolved to the satisfaction of other participating banks and
industrial beneficiaries

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  Monitoring systems were installed at the industry level, impact level, and institutional level to support monitoring the
implementation of EPAP II subprojects and final verification of pollution abatement results in order to qualify for the
partial grant element under the project (Table 3 in page #11 and 12).

Three key documents were developed as tools to support measurement and verification of results. They included
environmental audit, a Compliance Action Plan; and technical specifications of the projects.

An EPAP II sub-project Management Information System (MIS) was established to handle project files. An online
monitoring system with a database was also set up to upgrade the already established air monitoring infrastructure.

As part of the second restructuring, the design of the results framework was adjusted to conform with the delay in
CDM projects that did not move forward in a timely manner by removing and modifying the related indicators. In
addition, the results framework also was expanded by adding on a core DO indicator, ”Volume(mass) of COD
pollution load reduction achieved under the Project” and two IO indicators, “Direct project beneficiaries” and “Female
beneficiaries “.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    The identification of the key pollutants, the measurement of concentration and flow, and the calculation of the
average load were central to M&E implementation. According to the ICR, a three- step verification process was
initiated. First, the industry provided a sample at full operational capacity to EEAA. Second, an unannounced spot
verification visit was made by the EEAA inspection department to the industry site to obtain a sample and analyze it
in-house. Third, a sample of EEAA contracts was prepared by an independent third-party and sent to a laboratory for
verification. This was verified by EEAA to determine whether any gaps existed between the results and the
sub-project. The verification was then technically approved at the level of the CEO of EEAA. A twelve month
monitoring process began once the sub-project was commissioned. The industry provided self- monitored quarterly
reports to EEAA. Following this period, the final verification of results was initiated and the same three- step process
was repeated.

The MIS handled project-related files and information, beginning with the application through to the final pollution
abatement results for the release of the grant. The online monitoring equipment supported the industries in monitoring
emissions from stacks.

 c. M&E Utilization:
    Based on quarterly reports, the PMU made recommendations to the CEO of EEAA. The CEO made the final
decision to release the grant on the basis of compliance. With regard to the alternative fuel sub-project, the use of an
alternative fuel for one year and compliance with agreed emissions were used for verification.

EEAA financed additional air monitoring stations in the sub-project areas with advanced hardware and software that
allowed for the online transmission of monitoring data collected from stacks and stations. At EPAP II project closing,
three cement companies, a petrochemical company, an iron and steel company and one fertilizer company had
installed the online monitoring system. According to the ICR, this 24- hour stream of data allows EEAA to develop
compliance reports, load emission reports, and statistical analysis (page #13 of the ICR).

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment Safeguards
The project triggered environment category #F and OP/BP 4.00 on the use of the Borrower System to address
environmental and social Safeguards issues in Bank supported Projects. It was the first in the MENA region to use
country systems in place of the Bank’s safeguards policies.

As part of preparation, an Equivalence and Acceptability Assessment of the institutional and legal infrastructure in
Egypt at a national, regional, and local level was undertaken against the Bank’s safeguards policies and requirements.
Based on the result, a number of gap filling measures were carried out prior to Project start. This included (i) revising
the EIA procedural guidelines, (ii) revising “Form B” to improve the screening criteria and make them more
comprehensive, (iii) updating the list of Competent Administrative Authorities, (iv) issuing detailed TORs for preparing
Compliance Action Plans (CAPs), and (v) revising the sector guidelines to reflect updated procedures.
During implementation, EEAA carried out a number of other actions to sustain the acceptability of the system. This
involved carrying out annual reviews of the screening Forms A and B, training a core group of EIA trainers and
training EEAA staff, NGO consultants, reviewers, ministries, the media, and the participating banks. EEAA also
established a database to monitor the implementation of CAPs.

By 2009/2010 all agreed measures had been implemented. No major safeguards issues arose during implementation.
According to the ICR, overall, Egypt and EEAA benefitted greatly from using, revising, and updating country systems
and procedures to address environmental issues (page #14 of the ICR).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
At Project preparation, procurement was designed to be implemented by each participating industry with all contracts
subjected to the Bank’s prior review and no-objection, whether using commercial competitive practice (CCP), or
national competitive bidding (NCB), or international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement methods. However, during
implementation, there were differences over when to apply the various methods, with the Bank requesting that more
contracts be processed using the NCB/ICB method rather than CCP. However, the bulk of EPAP II sub-projects were
submitted by private sector clients, and hence the majority of contracts used CCP. This led to long delays in the
approval of tender packages in the early phase of implementation and caused several industries to withdraw their
participation in EPAP II. In 2009, the Bank and the PMU clarified the terms under CCP, and the Bank opened the
application of CCP on a broader basis for private sector industries, resolving the issue.

Another concern that evolved during the early phases of implementation was the need to align the various loan
agreements between the GOE and the several donors in order to accommodate the desire of private sector industries
to procure local supply and install contracts. This warranted increasing the financing ceiling from US$ 12
million to US$ 15 million, and raising the threshold for using ICB from US$ 5 million to US$ 8 million. An amendment
was made to the loan agreement to address the issue shortly after Project launch in 2007.

The PMU did not have any direct responsibility for carrying out procurement, except for consultants’ services needed
for in-house TA. The main procurement function of the PMU was to ensure that procurement was carried out by the
beneficiary industries in a manner consistent with the requirements set forth in the Loan Agreement. The procurement
capacity acquired by the former PMU under EPAP I was weakened by reassignment or turnover of staff and needed
rebuilding. Due to the limited availability of national procurement expertise, the Project supported a program of
intensive procurement training of selected staff from the Technical Support Section of the PMU, who in turn were
supported during the first year by an international procurement specialist (consultant) for a total period of three months
Financial Management
A Financial Management Unit (FMU) was established in PMU at NBE. The FMU at NBE had the overall responsibility
for the Project’s FM activities. A qualified financial management team effectively handled all aspects of their fiduciary
responsibilities. The FMU was headed by a finance manager and supported by several accountants seconded from
NBE during the life of the Project. Throughout the implementation, there were no outstanding FMRs or audit reports.
The FMU handled all record keeping, financing, disbursements, planning, and reporting. No major issues were
reported on the financial management of the loan proceeds throughout Project implementation.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
According to the ICR:
·1) As part of the fuel switching sub-project in Arab Abu Saad, EPAP II helped formalize a sector previously operating
without licenses. The Arab Abu Saad area is situated approximately 40 km south of Cairo, where the largest cluster of
brickworks in Egypt is located. The bricks manufacturing process utilizes open furnaces where fuel is combusted and
exhaust gases are naturally drafted using tall stacks (60-80 m). The Project converted 176 kilns to operate with
natural gas (page #24 ICR)
2) The project reduced air emissions from kilns stacks due to the phase-out of mazout, thereby improving ambient air
quality and protecting the health of workers and the surrounding neighbors ( page #24 ICR)

As noted at the end of Section 4, above, the ICR cites several other "significant outcomes" not covered by PDO or
Intermediate Outcome Indicators (page#20). It would appear that these outcomes were not anticipated and are
therefore mentioned below:
1) The project was first in the Region to use country systems in lieu of the Bank’s safeguards policies.
2) The related Compliance Action Plans were used for further enhancement of the enforcement function, which
generated additional pollution abatement investment from private industries outside the EPAP 2 sub-projects.
3) The monitoring and compliance function of EEAA was strengthened through the demonstration effect of the
pollution abatement investments and introduction of best available techniques.
4) The project contributed to subsequent advancement of the industrial pollution management agenda in the Middle
East and North Africa Region (MNA), including the conception of the EPAP-III project in Egypt (see section 11d
below) and the EPAP project in Lebanon.

 d. Other:
The EEAA/NBE has signed a new five-year loan for EUR 200 million in a third follow on operation (EPAP III), to which
the Bank is not a party. With this, the EEAA has secured a financial instrument for scaling-up the EPAP model,
reaching more polluting industries, and further developing their monitoring capacity” ( page #15 ICR).


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   Two of the ICR lessons have been modified by IEG:

As the Bank becomes increasingly involved with private sector entities, there is a need to improve the capacity of
the Bank to handle common commercial competitive procurement practices.
More flexibility from the side of the Bank is required in applying suitable terms and a streamlined process in
Commercial Competitive Practice (CCP), given the criticality of time for private sector clients and for furthering
business in Public- Private Partnerships. During subject project preparation in one project, procurement was
designed to be implemented by each participating industry with all contracts subjected to the Bank’s prior review
and no-objection using CCP, NCB, or ICB procurement methods. However, during implementation differences
arose over when to apply the different methods, with the Bank requesting that more contracts be processed using
NCB/ICB method rather than CCP. However, the bulk of the sub-projects of the subject project were submitted by
private sector clients, and hence the majority of contracts were using CCP. This led to long delays on approval of
tender packages in the early phase of implementation, with the result that several industries withdrew their
participation in EPAP II. The issue was resolved in 2009 when the Bank and the PMU clarified the terms under
CCP, and the Bank opened up for the application of CCP on a broader basis for private sector industries.

Installation of continuous monitoring systems as an integral part of grant funded environment sub-projects allows
for basing the grant allocation on effectiveness of industries in pollution reduction.
While the use of continuous online stack monitoring is very effective in determining the reliability of the data, the
system can equally support monitoring waste water discharges in similar projects. The mandate that all companies
requiring funding should install monitoring systems would go a long way in realizing pollution reduction if built in as
a grant /loan funding requirement.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? To gain a better understanding of on the ground experience in using country systems in lieu of the Bank’s
safeguards policies, thereby triggering OP/BP 4.00 on Use of Borrower System to Address Environmental and Social
Safeguards Issues in Bank- supported Projects in a fragile country context.
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR describes the implementation of the project well and includes a good Borrower ICR. Its extensive report of
project investments gives the reader a fair understanding of the project activities and problems faced. The section on
lessons learnt is evidence based and comprehensive. Stakeholders are well defined and the ICR justifies at several
points their participation in various phases of the project cycle. Poverty, gender and social elements are adequately
reported in the appropriate section.

The ICR falls short in the following respects: (i) adequately assessing the coercive clauses introduced by NBE;(ii)
clearly substantiating the total project cost (total Project Cost by Component in Annex 1 and in Annex 3 do not tally;
and (iii) candidly reporting the implementation challenge for the PMU at EEAA related to the delayed completion of
gap-filling measures as identified in the EAA for using country systems in lieu of Bank safeguard policies. This is
imperative considering that the “Project was the first in the region to use country systems in lieu of the Bank’s
safeguards policies, thereby triggering OP/BP 4.00 on Use of Borrower System to Address Environmental and Social
Safeguards Issues in Bank-supported Projects” ( page #8 of the ICR).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
