Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No. 
AB1496
 
Operation Name 
First Business Productivity and Efficiency DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%);General industry and trade sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P094301 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, NATIONAL PLANNING 
DEPARTMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
April 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 30, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 29, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since 2002, Colombia has returned to a path of steady economic growth, putting the recession of the late 
1990s well behind it. Real economic growth doubled from 1.6 percent in 2002 to nearly 4 percent in 
2003 and 2004, and the government expects this pace to continue at least until 2007. The unemployment 
rate dropped from over 17 percent in 2002 to less than 12 percent in November 2004 and inflation eased 
from 7.0 percent in 2002 to 5.5 percent last year. This recovery has been aided by a better international 
environment: faster world expansion, lower interest rates and highe
r
prices for Colombia’s oil and 
coffee exports. Much of the credit must also go to government actions to pursue macroeconomic 
stability and fiscal balance and improve the security situation after four decades of civil conflict.   
The Government of Colombia (GoC) recognizes that the private sector is the engine of the country’s 
economic growth, and has put measures to foster a stronger private sector supply response high on its 
agenda for increasing growth.  The brighter macro-level picture is central to this, through revived 
aggregate demand and greater consumer and business confidence. The government is also undertaking 
an extensive program of micro-level reforms to facilitate business operations and increase the 
productivity and competitiveness of Colombian firms, in particular to fully exploit the export 
opportunities offered by the prospective U.S./Andean Free Trade Agreement.   
The GoC’s ongoing financial sector reforms are also geared towards facilitating the flow of capital to the 
productive sector.  Sustaining and accelerating economic growth requires the upgrading and expansion 
of productive capacity, which in turn demands a strong rate of private investment. However, this has not 
yet recovered to pre-crisis levels.
 
Private investment fell from almost 12 percent of GDP in 1998 to less 
than 6 percent in 2000, and had only rebounded to 8.9 percent by 2004.  
Colombia has made considerable progress both in supply-side measures to make business activity easier 
and in strengthening the financial sector.  In 2005, the World Bank/IFC Report “Doing Business” ranked 
the country as the number two reformer worldwide in the area of business environment. Actions taken 
include the establishment of fiscal incentives for certain types of private investments (Law 788 of 2002), 
increases in labor market flexibility (Law 789 of 2003), the facilitation of foreign direct investment 
(Decrees 2080 of 2000 and 1844 of 2003); and the creation of incentives for increasing credit to the 
private sector, including through micro-credit (Law 795 of 2003). Similarly, the Financial Sector 
Page  2
Assessment Program (FSAP) of 2004 highlighted the recovery of the financial sector since the crisis of 
the late 1990s, largely thanks to a broad range of financial sector legal and regulatory reforms.   
However, the country still faces important challenges in these two areas, and has requested the support 
of the Bank for the continuation of its reform process.    
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The specific objective of the proposed loan would be to support the G
oC’s program for promoting 
greater business efficiency and productivity through the enhancement of the business environment and 
the consolidation of the financial sector and capital markets.  The operation would support policy and 
institutional reforms in three areas: a) enhancement of the business environment through improvements 
in the regulatory framework and reduction in the administrative burden on enterprises, thus reducing 
business transaction costs and facilitating the formation of new entrepreneurial activities; b) enhancing 
the depth and efficiency of the banking sector and improving access to financial services for micro, 
small and medium enterprises (MSMEs); and c) promoting access to capital markets by enterprises, 
including through the development of efficient secondary markets.  
In the first of these three categories, the prior actions for Board presentation of this first proposed loan 
are to:  
·
Reduce transactions costs and increase efficiency of entrepreneurial activities through (i) 
the issuance of a CONPES policy document establishing the strategy on inter-
institutional collaboration to rationalize bureaucratic procedures particularly regarding 
business activities; (ii) submission to the legislature of a bill to rationalize bureaucratic 
procedures; and (iii) the creation of Centros de Atencion Empresarial (CAEs) in at least 
six major cities as a one-stop office to streamline bureaucratic procedures associated with 
running a business· 
 
·
Streamline foreign trade activities through the issuance of the decree  establishing a 
Ventanilla Unica as a one-stop electronic platform to process all documentation required 
to export and import goods and services· 
·
Support the development of new entrepreneurial activities through (i) Issuance of a 
CONPES policy document establishing the mechanisms of inter-institutional 
coordination to support new entrepreneurial activities; and (b) enactment by the 
legislature of the law creating the Small and Medium Enterprises Council and 
strengthening the National Fund for the Modernization and Technological Development 
of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (Fomipyme)· 
 
Prior actions to enhance the depth and efficiency of the banking sector and improve access to financial 
services for MSMEs would be to: 
·
Improve financial access for the poor and for SMEs through the issuance by the 
Superintendencia de Bancos (SB) and Ministerio de Hacienda (MH) of new norms to (i) 
reduce the transactions costs associated with opening basic accounts (BAs); (ii) create a 
Programmed Savings Matching Savings Scheme for low income housing; (iii) signing of 
Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) between government agencies and private banks 
providing for the use of public facilities for banking services; (iv) signing of an MOU 
between the Fondo Nacional de Garantias (FNG), private banks and Micro Finance 
Page  3
Institutions (MFI) to promote the availability of credit lines at market rates to MFIs; and 
(v) issuance of norms to allow and foster the provision of housing finance by Cajas de 
Compensacion to its affiliates in a framework of adequate prudential regulation. 
 
·
Strengthen supervision by finalizing a plan, approved by the MH, to support the ongoing 
merger process of the SB and the Superintendencia de Valores (SV) to create a new 
Superintendencia Financiera (SF).  This plan includes: (i) an institutional framework 
providing budgetary and legal independence and (ii) an operational plan to minimize 
workflow disruptions during the merger process. 
·
Increase financial sector competition through issuance by the SB of new regulations 
requiring improved price and characteristics disclosure of banks’ financial products. · 
 
·
Improve the efficiency of the payments system by rationalizing and defining the 
supervisory role of the SB and the BR regarding low and high value payments.  
Finally, to promote access to capital markets by enterprises, the triggers for the first loan would be to:  
·
Strengthen capital markets development and supervision through: (i) enactment by the 
Legislature of a Securities Law that includes improved investor protection rules and 
upgraded SV supervisory powers;  and (ii) issuance of a resolution adopting international 
standards on hostile takeovers· 
 
·
Promote new issuances and the development of new capital markets products through (i) 
issuance of a decree establishing and regulating the operation of real estate investment 
funds (REIFs); (ii) issuance of a resolution establishing the framework for the creation of 
private equity funds; and (iii) developing an automatic prospectus generating system to 
lower transactions costs of new issuances· 
 
·
Strengthen the domestic money markets and government debt secondary markets by: (i) 
finalizing a study of the situation and limitations of the existing money markets with 
emphasis on repos and other securities-based lending; (ii) issuance of norms to integrate 
legal, accounting and tax rules for securities borrowing and lending; and (c) finalizing a 
study on the diagnosis of current restrictions for the issuance and liquidity of short term 
government bonds (TES) in primary and secondary markets.   
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed loan would be the first stage of a three-phased programmatic development policy operation 
(DPL).  The entire program would be carried out over a period of three years and would be complemented 
by recently completed, as well as concurrent, Economic and Sector Work (ESW) carried out at the request 
of the GoC.   
The second and third phases of the programmatic operation would continue supporting the process of 
reforms in the three categories described above, as well as other areas important to further improve business 
productivity and efficiency. Such reforms include strengthening the capability of the private sector to adopt 
and develop new technologies and improve the quality of its products and processes; as well as reducing 
logistics costs.  Key triggers for the preparation of the second operation include: a) advances in the 
implementation of mechanisms to enhance the business environment based on targets defined at appraisal; 
b) broad implementation by financial sector participants of regulations fostering access, competition and 
Page  4
price transparency; and c) completion of the regulatory framework, to improve access to the capital markets 
by the real sector. 
4. Environmental Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are not expected to have any significant effect on the 
environment.
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point: 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD) 
 
