Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1897 
Operation Name 
1st Business Productivity and Efficiency DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (70%);General industry and trade sector 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P094301 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance (
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito P
úblico
,
MHCP) and National Planning Department (
Departamento 
Nacional de Planeaciñn
,
DNP 
Date PID Prepared 
October 24, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 12, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 27, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Government of Colombia (GoC) has taken great strides in consolidating the economic recovery 
since 2002 and has made improving the business environment and strengthening the financial sector 
central to the country’s pursuit of faster economic growth.  The 2005 “Doing Business” report by the 
World Bank and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) ranked Colombia as the number two 
reformer in the area of business environment in a sample of 145 countries.  Similarly, the Financial 
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Update, carried out in late 2004, highlighted the recovery of the 
financial sector since the crisis of the late 1990s due to a broad range of financial sector legal and 
regulatory reforms.  The GoC has more recently embarked on a series of policy and institutional reforms 
to promote greater productivity and efficiency among enterprises.  At the core of these reforms is a 
concerted effort to further improve the business environment and continue strengthening the financial 
sector, to enable it to fund the investment needed for productivity and efficiency gains at the firm level.  
The Bank’s support for the GoC’s program to promote greater business productivity and efficiency 
would consist of a three-phased programmatic development policy lending (DPL) operation.  The entire 
program would be carried out over a period of three years and would be complemented by recently 
completed, as well as concurrent, Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) carried out at by the Bank 
at the request of the GoC. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
This operation is the first DPL of this program and supports greater business productivity and efficiency 
through reforms seeking the attainment of three objectives: (a) enhancing the business environment 
through improvements in the regulatory framework and a reduction in the administrative burden on 
enterprises; (b) increasing the soundness and depth of the financial system; and (c) promoting access to 
capital markets by firms and improving the efficiency of secondary markets.  The second and third 
phases of the programmatic operation would continue to support the process of reforms initiated under 
this first operation and would consider its extension to other areas.   
 
3. Description 
Page  2
This project supports policy and institutional reforms in three areas: 
A. Enhancement of the business environment to improve the competitiveness of the 
productive sectors of the economy. 
One of the pillars
 of the GoC’s National Development Plan 2002-2006 is the improvement of the 
business environment as the foundation for sustainable growth of the country.  The GoC has sought to 
give the state the role of facilitator in promoting business activity, moving away from direct 
intervention.  This component will support the following legal and regulatory changes: 
(a) Reduction of transactions costs and increased efficiency of entrepreneurial activities by 
streamlining administrative procedures, particularly those associated with business activities; 
(b) Streamline foreign trade activities by creating a one-stop electronic platform to process all 
documentation required to export and import goods and services; and 
(c) Provide a stable legal framework for direct investment by allowing the government to make 
contractual guarantees that the rules governing major new projects will not change. 
B. Increasing the soundness and depth of the financial system. 
The GoC’s program in this area seeks to address the need for greater access to financial services by the 
productive sectors of the economy, while further strengthening the financial sector, to ensure sustainable 
growth of financial deepening.  The reforms supported by this operation seek to:
 
(a) Improve financial access by allowing the provision, under adequate prudential regulation, of 
credit by cajas de compensacion, non-profit associations for employee benefits and social 
services, and allowing the sustainable and market-oriented growth of FNG activities; 
(b) Strengthen supervision of financial markets through the adoption of a plan to support the 
ongoing merger process banking and capital markets supervisors, enhancing early warning 
systems for pension funds, and improving banks’ corporate governance; and 
(c) Lower the impact of illegal activities on the financial sector by enhancing the coordination of 
government agencies seeking to combat money laundering and terrorism financing 
C. Increasing access to capital markets by enterprises and improving the efficiency of 
secondary markets. 
The GoC, with Bank support, is carrying out a reform program to foster the development of the local 
capital markets, to provide firms with more efficient financing mechanisms and provide both the 
Government and the private sector with more efficient secondary markets in which to manage their 
risks.  This has been carried out through the enactment of the Capital Markets Law, regulatory reforms 
and the creation of new instruments to raise the efficiency of the markets. 
The proposed operation will support three sets of reforms: 
(a) Strengthen capital markets development and supervision through the enactment of a new Capital 
Markets Law; 
(b) Promote new issuances and the development of new capital markets products; and 
Page  3
(c) Strengthening the domestic money markets and government debt secondary markets. 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
250 
 Total 
250 
 
5.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
MHCP will be the representative of the Republic of Colombia (the Borrower) and will be responsible for 
the overall implementation of this program.  MHCP has designated the Enterprise Development 
Directorate (DDE) within the DNP as the agency coordinating the business environment enhancement 
component of the program.  MHCP has designated the General Financial Regulation Directorate within 
MHCP as the agency responsible for coordinating the two other components on the program related to 
financial and capital markets. 
6. Benefits and Risks
 
The proposed loan would support sustainable growth and alleviation of poverty by: 
 
·
Facilitating the creation and operation of businesses, leading to increased productivity and 
employment levels; and 
·
Fostering the sustainable growth of a financial system and capital markets that address the needs 
of individuals and the productive sector. 
 
The proposed operation supports an institutional development effort widely perceived as necessary by 
most political actors, and that the Government is already actively implementing.  Therefore, there is 
little risk that the actions already taken could be reversed and that the indicative triggers for the 
preparation of the next operation are not reached within the twelve months following the effectiveness 
of this first loan.  However, there are some risks associated with the effective implementation of the 
institutional and regulatory reforms supported by the proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL).  The 
most relevant risks are the following:
 
·
Mechanisms for inter-institutional collaboration and coordination in support of entrepreneurial 
activities may be hampered by inter-agency rivalries
 
·
Measures to increase access to financial services may take a long time to produce results 
 
·
Political uncertainty and any deterioration in the internal security situation related to the 2006 
elections may delay the implementation of important institutional and regulatory reforms 
 
·
Current levels of public debt may pose a threat to overall macroeconomic stability 
 
7. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  4
The proposed operation advances the Colombia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) aim of promoting 
fast and sustainable growth through stimulating business activity and investment.  As noted in the CAS, 
growth has been Colombia’s most effective safety net, as on average, each percentage point increase in 
per capita GDP reduces poverty by 0.6 percentage points, which equates to roughly a quarter of a 
million people.  Strong and stable growth has historically helped the poor in Colombia by raising living 
standards, easing unemployment and increasing public resources for social spending. 
The operation also seeks to address the problem of informality, by enhancing the business environment 
and lowering the costs of being part of the formal economy.  Lower informality could bring significant 
economic and social benefits.  Formal firms have better access to credit from the financial system, and 
therefore more possibilities for investment, growth and the adoption of new technologies – all of which 
can reasonably be expected to boost efficiency, productivity and economic growth.  Formal firms are 
also likely to offer better employment conditions, including longer, more stable contracts, training, 
health coverage and pension benefits.  However, as informality–and any decision to join the formal 
sector–has multiple causes, the impact on informality of the measures supported here would be 
extremely difficult to quantify.  The Bank is, however, examining the possibility of tracking the access 
to credit of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), both formal and informal, as part of a 
forthcoming Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) of Colombia. 
The proposed operation includes some specific measures that should benefit low-income groups, in 
particular by extending financial access for the poor and MSMEs.  For the unbanked, gaining a bank 
account facilitates saving and reduces the costs and inconvenience associated with financial transactions, 
including the payment of utility and other bills and the receipt of salaries and remittances.  Also, 
promoting the availability of credit lines from commercial banks to micro finance institutions will make 
it easier for these to provide resources to entrepreneurs and MSMEs.  Facilitating the creation of 
companies and integrating MSMEs more closely into production chains will also increase the 
possibilities for small businesses to provide employment and a route out of poverty.  
This operation is not expected to have adverse environmental impacts. 
 
8.   Contact point: 
 
Juan Carlos Mendoza, Task Manager 
Title: Senior Financial Economist 
Tel: (+1 202) 473-1735 
Email: 
jmendoza@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD)  
 
9.   Contact point: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  5
