                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 37993 -BO



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  Credit No. 4067-BO

                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.00 MILLION
                           US$ 15.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                          TO

                             THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                        FOR A

      SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT II


                                   December 20, 2006




Human Development Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      Exchange Rate Effective as of December 20, 2006

                                          Currency Unit = Bolivianos (Bs)
                                                 US$ 1.00 = Bs. 8.03

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                      [January 1 ­ December 31]

                           ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CISE     Inter Institutional Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation (Comité Interinstitucional de
         Seguimiento y Evaluación)
CNE      National Congress on Education (Congreso Nacional de Educación)
CONAN    National Council of Food and Nutrition (Consejo Nacional de Alimentación y Nutrición)
CONAPES  Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social
CONED    National Education Council (Consejo Nacional de Educación)
DILOS    Local Health Boards (Directorios Locales de Salud)
DOTS    Directly Observed Treatment (Tratamiento Observado Directamente)
DPL     Development Policy Lending
DPT     Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus Vaccine
DUF     Unique Directorate of Funds (Directorio Único de Fondos)
EPSAS    Water and Sanitation Provider Companies (Empresas Prestadoras de Servicios de Agua y
         Saneamiento)
FPS      Social and Productive Fund (Fondo Productivo y Social)
FUNDASAB Foundation for Sustainability Support of Basic Water Sanitation (Fundación de Apoyo a la
         Sostenibilidad en Saneamiento Básico)
GOB     The Government of Bolivia
GTZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA     International Development Association
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
IMF     International Monetary Fund
INE     National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadística)
IPA     Indice Parasitario Anual (Malaria)
KfW     Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
PAI     Expanded Program of Immunization (Programa Ampliado de Inmunización)
PLANE   Emergency Employment Program (Programa de Empleo de Emergencia)
PNC     National Compensation Policy (Política Nacional de Compensación)
POMA    Multi-Annual Operational Plan (Plan Operativo Multi-Anual)
PROPAIS Poverty Alleviating Program and Support to Social Investments (Programa contra la
         Pobreza y Apoyo a la Inversión Social)
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RPS     Social Protection Net (Red de Protección Social)
SBA     Stand-By Arrangement
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SIGMA   Governmental Information and Administrative Reform System (Sistema de Información
         Gubernamental y Modernización Administrativa)
SSPC    Social Sectors Programmatic Credit
SSPSAC  Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit

SUMI   Universal Mother and Child Insurance (Seguro Universal Materno-Infantil)
TB     Tuberculosis
TIC    Tecnologias de Información y Comunicación
UDAPE  Analysis Unit for Social and Economic Policies (Unidad de Análisis de Politicas Económicas y
        Sociales)
VIPFE  Deputy Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing (Viceministerio de Inversión Pública y
        FinanciamientoExterno)




                              Vice-President: Pamela Cox
                           Country Director: Marcelo Giugale
                             Sector Director: Evangeline Javier
                            Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
                         Task Team Leader: Ian Walker

                                                            BOLIVIA

    SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT II

                                                        CONTENTS
1. BASIC INFORMATION ...................................................................................................................1

2. KEY DATES .......................................................................................................................................1

3. RATINGS SUMMARY......................................................................................................................2

4. SECTOR AND THEME CODES......................................................................................................3

5. BANK STAFF.....................................................................................................................................3

6. PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN................................4

7. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES...............................11

8. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ...................................................................................................17

9. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME....................................................20

10. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE............................................20

11. LESSONS LEARNED......................................................................................................................23

12. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
    AGENCIES/PARTNERS.................................................................................................................24

ANNEX 1. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS ............................................................................26

ANNEX 2. RESTRUCTURING .............................................................................................................30

ANNEX 3. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION
   PROCESSES.....................................................................................................................................31

ANNEX 4. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS (IF ANY)...............................................................32

ANNEX 5. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS (IF ANY) .........................33

ANNEX 6. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ........34

ANNEX 7. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS.36

ANNEX 8. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS...........................................................................37

     1.      Basic Information

 SSPSAC 1

 Country: Bolivia                             Program Name: Social Sectors Programmatic
                                              Structural Adjustment Credit (SSPSAC I)

 Program ID: P087841                          L/C/TF Number(s): 3942-BO

 ICR Date: June 21, 2005                      ICR Type: Simplified

 Lending Instrument: DPL                      Borrower: Republic of Bolivia/Ministry of Finance

 Original Total Commitment: SDR 17.2          Disbursed Amount: SDR 17.2 million/US$25.0 million
 million/US$25.0 million equivalent           equivalent

 Implementing Agencies: Republic of Bolivia/Ministry of Finance

 Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: International German Cooperation - KfW (Cooperación
 Financiera Alemana), GTZ




 SSPC 11

 Country: Bolivia                             Program Name: Social Sector Programmatic
                                              Development Policy Credit II (SSPC II)

 Program ID: P091365                          L/C/TF Number(s): 4067-BO

 ICR Date: November 14, 2006                  ICR Type: Core

 Lending Instrument: DPL                      Borrower: Republic of Bolivia

 Original Total Commitment: SDR 10.0          Disbursed Amount: SDR 10.0 million/US$15.0 million
 million/US$15.0 million equivalent           equivalent

 Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance, through the Viceministry of Public Investment and
 External Finance (VIPFE) and the Analysis and Economic Policy Unit (UDAPE)

 Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: International German Cooperation - KfW (Cooperación
 Financiera Alemana)


     2.      Key Dates
 SSPSAC I
     Process              Date               Process         Original Date    Revised/Actual Date(s)

Concept Review:    03/11/2004         Effectiveness:        07/26/2004       07/26/2004

Appraisal:         05/05/2004         Restructuring(s):                      N/A

Approval:          06/29/2004         Mid-term Review:      N/A              N/A

                                      Closing:              12/31/2004       12/31/2004




                                                 1

     SSPC II
         Process              Date                 Process        Original Date    Revised/Actual Date(s)

  Concept Review:       03/07/2005          Effectiveness:        10/21/2005      10/21/2005

  Appraisal:            04/26/2005          Restructuring(s):                     N/A

  Approval:             05/26/2005          Mid-term Review:      N/A             N/A

                                            Closing:              05/31/2006      05/31/2006


         3.       Ratings Summary
   3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

                                  SSPSAC I                  SSPC II                      Overall

   Outcome:                       Satisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory
   Risk to Development              (Likely)               Significant                  Significant
   Outcome (Sustainability)
   Bank Performance:
       Overall                    Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
      Quality at entry:           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

      Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
   Borrower Performance:          Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory


3.2. 1 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators - SSPSAC I

          Implementation Performance                Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating

Potential Prob. Program at any time(Yes/No):           No      Quality at Entry (QEA):

Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                   No      Quality of Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:               S


  3.2. 2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators - SSPC II

          Implementation Performance                Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating

Potential Prob. Program at any time(Yes/No):           No      Quality at Entry (QEA):

Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                   No      Quality of Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:              MU




                                                       2

  4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               SSPSAC I                SSPC II
                                                           (Original & Actual)    (Original & Actual)
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 1. General water, sanitation and flood protection sector          25%                    25%
 2. General Education Sector                                       25%                    25%
 3. Health                                                         25%                    25%
 4. Other Social Service                                           20%                    20%
 5. General Public Administration Sector                             5%                     5%
 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
 1.Participation and civic engagement                               P                      P
 2. Social Safety Nets                                              P                      P
 3. Education for All                                               P                      P
 4. Indigenous Peoples                                              S                      S
 5. Health System Performance                                       S                      S


     5.         Bank Staff
       SSPSAC I
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval

Vice President:             Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti

Country Director:           Marcelo Giugale                      Marcelo Giugale

Sector Manager:             Helena Ribe                          Evangeline Javier

TTL:                        Daniel Dulitzky                      Juan Pablo Uribe

ICR Team Leader:            Daniel Dulitzky

ICR Primary Author:         Daniel Dulitzky/Kathryn Johns Swartz


       SSPC II
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval

Vice President:             Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox

Country Director:           Marcelo Giugale                      Marcelo Giugale

Sector Manager:             Helena Ribe                          Evangeline Javier

TTL:                        Ian Walker                           Daniel Dulitzky

ICR Team Leader:            Ian Walker

ICR Primary Author:         Ian Walker/Jorge Barrientos




                                                       3

 6.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector
 background, rationale for Bank assistance):

 This ICR covers the implementation and results of a series of two programmatic operations:
 Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (SSPSAC I) and Social Sector
 Programmatic Development Policy Credit II (SSPC II).

 The contribution of the first operation, SSPSAC I, to the series was already discussed and rated
 in a Simplified ICR. The ratings in the Simplified ICR (SICR) were as follows:
     · Outcome: Satisfactory;
     · Sustainability: Likely;
     · Institutional Development Impact: Modest;
     · Bank Performance: Satisfactory;
     · Borrower Performance: Satisfactory.

 IEG has reviewed the SICR and rated the SSPSAC I operation as follows:
     · Outcome: Satisfactory;
     · Sustainability: Likely;
     · ID Impact: Modest;
     · Bank Quality at entry: Satisfactory;
     · Bank Supervision: Satisfactory;
     · Overall Bank Performance: Satisfactory;
     · Borrower Implementation: Satisfactory;
     · Borrower Compliance: Satisfactory;
     · Overall Borrower Performance: Satisfactory;
     · ICR Quality: Unsatisfactory.

 The above-cited ratings for the SSPSAC I will continue to apply. This full ICR rates the second
 operation in the series (SSPC II) and also rates the results of the programmatic series as a
 whole.

At the time the program was designed, Bolivia was in a difficult internal social and political
situation. Political differences on how to handle the crisis were leading to frequent outbursts of
social unrest. The Mesa administration, which had taken over in late 2003, was attempting to
consolidate a power base that would enable it to complete the presidential term by 2007.

Bolivia's fragile socio-political environment was the result of persistent high levels of poverty
and inequality and governance weaknesses resulting from shocks that had hit Bolivia since the
late 90s. Increasing inequality led to mobilizations of poor and excluded groups; and conflicts
were compounded by tensions among regions, classes and indigenous/non-indigenous groups.
The last round of conflicts had toppled the previous government in October 2003. The
macroeconomic situation was also challenging. There had been some slowdown in economic


                                                4

growth but the terms of trade were improving thanks to a strong expansion in hydrocarbon
prices. In 2003 the country was facing a serious fiscal situation with an overall budget deficit of
eight percent of GDP. Revenues had stagnated and public expenditures had been rising steadily
since the late 90s, driven by growing wage bills, pension costs and an acceleration of capital
expenditures. To some extent, the increase in expenditures was a result of political and social
pressures. To return to a sustainable fiscal path, the Mesa administration entered into a program
to reduce the deficit through a progressive reduction in public expenditures.

Social sectors had achieved important progress towards social goals set in the MDG framework
during the 1990s, but much remained be done in health, education and water and sanitation.
However, Bolivia's commitment to achieve MDG goals in the social sectors was being impaired
by the fiscal situation. The Mesa administration proposed to address this issue through reforms
to improve the provision of basic services. To this end, it was promoting a results-based
orientation in the social sectors, reaching down to the municipal level. Although greater stability
was achieved during 2004, by early 2005, civil unrest was mounting, leading to president
Mesa's resignation by mid year. An interim government took over in July 2005, and called
early general elections.

In December 2005, a new government headed by President Evo Morales was elected with a
solid majority. Mr. Morales ­ who is of Aimara origin - is the country's first indigenous
president. With a strong mandate for a new approach to address the country's long-standing
social problems, the new government gave priority to constitutional reform and poverty
reduction mainly among rural and indigenous people, while attempting to negotiate on the
demand for regional autonomy with the eastern regions of the country. In the social sectors, the
government intends to promote local structures for the provision of education, health and water
and sanitation services. The new government quickly moved to convene elections of delegates
to the Constitutional Assembly that was installed in August 2006. The Assembly will draft a
new constitution. The Morales Administration will push for an agenda that includes a broad
definition of political, economic and social values. According to the legislation convening the
Assembly, its decisions require a "qualified majority" of two-thirds of the elected delegates.
Since none of the blocks in the Assembly has that many votes, the process of reaching
agreements is likely to be convoluted.

2001-2003 were years of economic crisis, with low GDP growth, a major fiscal deficit (reaching
9% of GDP in 2002) and a looming current account deficit. However, due to a positive
international environment, the Bolivian economy was strengthened considerably during the
project implementation period of 2004-2006, due to a steady increase in the growth rate of real
GDP, an increase in export revenues and an improvement in the fiscal balance in a context of
low inflation. The 2005 trade balance stood at 3% of GDP ­ positive for the first time in several
years and the current account surplus reached almost 5% of GDP. The Hydrocarbons Law
passed in 2005 made a significant contribution to higher tax revenues, lowering the fiscal deficit
to 2.1% of GDP in 2005, from 5.7% the previous year. GDP growth of at least 4% is expected
for 2006 and the government is projecting a fiscal deficit in the range of 3.5 to 4 percent. The
following table summarizes the evolution of key economic indicators during the period 2001-
2005 and GOB's projections for 2006 (as of June 2006).



                                                 5

                                               2001   2002   2003    2004   2005(p)  2006 (e)
 GDP Growth                         %           1.5    2.8    2.5    3.6      4.0      4.1
 Current Account Balance            % GDP      -3.4    -4.2   0.6    3.0      4.9      n.a
 Consumer Prices                    %           0.9    2.4    3.9    4.6      4.9      4.0
 Fiscal Deficit                     % GDP      -6.9    -9.0   -8.1   -5.7     -2.1     3.7
  (p) Preliminary
  (e) GOB estimate



In this setting, the rationale for the project was to continue the Bank's long-standing support
to the Human Development sectors in Bolivia through both investment lending and DPLs. It
was envisioned that the DPL would serve as the articulating umbrella for the Bank's HD
sector strategy in Bolivia, supporting the policy reform agenda and helping to create a climate
where the accompanying investment operations could have the maximum possible impact.

6.1     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved):

The Program Summary, page I of PAD for SSPC II summarized the project's objectives as
follows:

"This Social Sector Programmatic Development Policy Credit (SSPC) series continues,
through a DPC operation, to support Bolivia's efforts to achieve selected MDGs through the
implementation of a number of key social sector policies that were designed during the first
phase of this program. The SSPC II is expected to support social sector policies with three
broad goals in mind: (i) protecting the positive results reached in the last decade in increasing
access to and quality of health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation, and social
protection; (ii) implementing the sector policy frameworks designed under the first phase of
this programmatic series to continue progress in social outcomes and move closer to
achieving a number of specific Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015; and (iii)
strengthening the capacity of both the Government and civil society to monitor and evaluate
policies, increasing accountability and effectiveness. Implementing these policies will
advance achievement of specific MDGs by 2015." (From Program Summary, page I of PAD
for SSPC II).

The following table summarizes the Key Indicators set for the program, synthesized from the
Policy Matrix (Annex 2 of the PAD), showing in each case: the baseline value and the target
value laid out in the PAD for the end of what was to be a three-loan program, originally due
to end in 2007.




                                                6

                       Indicators                              Baseline Value       End-of-Project Target Value
                                                         Number or text     Date     Number or text    Date
PDO Indicator
1. Health-Maternal Mortality (MDG) (per 10,000          235             12/30/1998 190              12/30/2007
live births)
2. Health-Infant Mortality (per 1000 live births)       67               12/30/1998 50 or less      12/30/2006
3. Education-POMA (Multi Annual Operating Plan)        Not               12/31/2000 Implemented     12/30/2006
                                                        implemented
4. Water and Sanitation-% of population receiving       72%              12/31/2003 77%             12/31/2006
sustainable potable water supply services (MDG)
5. Water and Sanitation-% of population receiving       41.3%            12/31/2003 49%             12/31/2006
sustainable sanitation services (MDG)
6. Water and Sanitation-% of population with waste      No data          12/31/2000 23%             12/31/2006
water adequately treated


7. Water and Sanitation-% of population without         42%              12/31/1992 36%             12/31/2006
access to water supply


8. Social Protection-Chronic Malnutrition in children 29%                12/31/2000 25%             12/31/2006
under 3 (MDG)
Intermediate outcome indicator(s)
1. Health-Improved coverage in prioritized              No data/ No      12/31/2001 Skilled birth   12/29/2006
municipalities: -Skilled birth attendance/ -Coverage    data/ No data/              attendance,
of 3d dose of DPT/ -Complete antenatal controls/ -% No data                         Coverage of 3d
of municipalities with performance agreements                                       dose of DPT and
                                                                                    complete
                                                                                    antenatal
                                                                                    controls:
                                                                                    Improve from
                                                                                    2004 baseline/
                                                                                    %munic with
                                                                                    perf. Agreem:
                                                                                    More than 20%
2. Health- -Skilled birth attendance at national level/ 55%/ 80%/        12/31/2003 70.0/ 95%/ n.d. 12/30/2015
-Coverage of DPT at national level/ -Complete           38%/
antenatal controls at national level
3. Health-Expansion of Intercultural service by         No certification 12/31/2000 Traditional     12/31/2006
certifying traditional doctors                          of traditional              doctors are
                                                        doctors                     being certified
4.   Health-% of municipalities with Chagas             69%              12/30/2003 87%             12/30/2006
     infestation rate less than 3%




                                                       7

  5. Health-Malaria Annual Parasite Index (API)         6.1         12/30/2003 3.5            12/30/2006
  (MDG)
  6. Health-Tuberculosis annual risk of infection       52.6        12/30/1995 80.0           12/30/2006
  (MDG)
  7. Education-Educational Councils                                            Working (to be 12/30/2006
                                                                               replaced by
                                                                               another system)
  8. Education-Municipalities implementing program      0           12/31/2000 At least 9     12/30/2006
  to close gender gap
  9. Water and Sanitation-Management Performance of No adequate     12/31/2000 An adequate    12/31/2006
  EPSAS and sustainability of the water and sanitation regulatory              regulatory
  services at the national level.                       agency                 agency
  10. Social Protection-Number of children under 3      no data     12/31/2000 Decreased by   12/30/2006
  with anemia in 165 high risk municipalities                                  20%
  11. Social Protection-Number of pregnant women        no data     12/31/2000 Decreased by   12/30/2006
  with anemia in 165 high-risk municipalities                                  20%
  12. Social Protection-% of 165 priority               no data     12/31/2000 50%            12/30/2006
  municipalities with nutrition intervention being
  monitored and evaluated
  13. Monitoring and Evaluation-Level of transparency Poor          12/31/2000 increased      12/30/2006
  on budget allocations and execution
  14. Monitoring and Evaluation-Statistical             Poor        12/31/2000 reliable       12/30/2006
  information useful for decision making on types and
  levels of public interventions for achieving MDGs
  15. Monitoring and Evaluation-Quality, coverage       Poor        12/31/2000 increased      12/30/2006
  and targeting of social services necessary to achieve
  the MDGs
  16. Monitoring and Evaluation-Periodic evaluations    no data     12/31/2000 Being carried  12/30/2006
  of progress made in achieving the MDGs followed                              out
  by participatory discussions and feedback to improve
  social sectors policies



6.2      Revised PDO and Key Indicators (if any, as approved by original approving
authority), and Reasons/Justification:

None

6.3      Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved):

The Social Sectors Programmatic Credit (SSPC) was designed as a series of three single
tranche credits. As summarized above, its development objective was to maintain progress
in health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation and social protection and to reduce
disparities in outcomes across different regions, ethnic groups and income classes,
contributing to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).


                                                       8

To this end, the program supported the implementation of actions in each of these areas,
including measures to promote the results-based orientation of programs, to promote
accountability and strengthen participatory monitoring of the MDGs. The first credit, the
Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (SSPSAC I), amounted to SDR
17.2 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) and closed on December 31, 2004. The second
credit, the Social Sectors Programmatic Credit (SSPC II) followed shortly and it was
structured using the Development Policy Lending (DPL) approach. It was a SDR 10.0
million (US$15.0 million equivalent) credit and closed on May 30, 2006. In late 2005, IDA
and GOB agreed not to go ahead with a third credit. This decision was ratified by the
Morales administration. Given Bolivia's relatively tight available IDA allocation, GOB and
the Bank had to choose carefully among lending operations originally scheduled. The
lending program is being revised for FY07 and subsequent years as part of the Interim
Policy Note currently being discussed with GOB.

The programmatic approach allowed IDA to support progress in the social sectors, yet allow
for flexibility in specific actions and instruments. IDA support for this program was
consistent with the prevailing Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (January 8, 2004). The
IDA program was coordinated with other relevant programs sponsored by the donor
community and included joint financing for the SSPSAC I and SSPC II by the German
international development agency (KfW). IDA and the KfW collaborated closely during
appraisal and supervision of both credits. Of particular importance was KfW's experience in
the water and sanitation sector and in the decentralization process in Bolivia.

All the policy actions laid out in the Policy Matrix for the programmatic series (Annex 1)
were conditions prior to Board approval for both credits. As is usual, some key actions were
selected as triggers for defining minimum conditions to proceed with each credit.
Compliance with the triggers was assessed at the time of appraising the credits, prior to
Board presentation. Additionally, benchmarks were established for each component in the
policy matrix to measure the expected progress in development outcomes associated with
each area of policy reform, over the period of the DPL series. The following paragraphs
summarize the GOB's Social Sectors Policies and Actions supported by the Program.

Health and Nutrition

    · Strengthen results-oriented health management at the municipal level;
    · Expand coverage of primary health care with an intercultural approach;
    · Establish a human resources policy that improves urban/rural distribution and
       strengthens primary health care;
    · Implement policies to reduce malnutrition in children under three years of age and
       anemia in pregnant women; and
    · Secure financing of programs aimed at reducing the incidence of communicable
       diseases and increasing the coverage of immunizations.




                                               9

Education
    · Develop a new educational strategy with ample participation;
    · Design and implement a program to improve secondary education; and
    · Design and implement specific actions to reduce the gender gap in primary
        education.

Water and Sanitation
    · Implement new financing and technical assistance policies for the sector; and
    · Develop measures to improve the management and efficiency of service providers.

Social Protection
    · Create and implement a Social Safety Net (RPS), to be followed by the definition of
        a National Social Protection Strategy;
    · Introduce a system of incentives for municipalities to achieve the MDGs; and
    · Make improvements in the efficacy of the Emergency Employment Program
        (PLANE).

Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation of the MDGs
    · Undertake measures in all sectors to increase citizen access to information on public
        social sector expenditures;
    · Consolidate a national system for statistical information that includes users'
        opinions;
    · Establish practices for the participatory monitoring and evaluation of progress
        towards achieving the MDGs at the national and municipal levels.

6.4     Revised Policy Areas (if applicable):

The most significant changes in the design and scope of the program between the first and
second DPLs were the removal of the trigger related to the water and sanitation sector and a
corresponding downwards adjustment of $10 million in the loan amount for the second
operation; and the reformulation of measures to promote participatory democracy in the
education sector, in the face of union resistance.

    (a) Water sector.
Following the first operation, good progress had been achieved with the design and
implementation of legal and regulatory reforms for water and sanitation, aimed at creating a
new financing scheme for rural service providers and a policy environment for improving
their performance, enabling an expansion of coverage at reasonable prices for all. However,
in early 2005, GOB issued a presidential decree to cancel the concession contract of the
largest private operator in Bolivia, which held the concession for La Paz and El Alto. This
action ­ which followed a major protest movement in El Alto (population about 600,000)
against increased connection charges - led to a major conflict between GOB and the
concessionaire, which is still unresolved. Although the SSPC program was not supporting
the concession strategy, the uncertainty created by canceling the concession contract was
likely to be harmful to the sector's future development. This led IDA and KfW to agree with


                                               10

GOB to reduce the amount of the SSPC II credit from US$25 million to US$15 million.
However, in recognition of GOB's efforts in the rural water sector, the advances which had
been achieved in that area were retained as benchmarks in the policy matrix. This approach
enabled IDA and KfW to continue monitoring sector policies and reforms. IDA thus
retained the option of providing future support to the sector if the issue was satisfactorily
resolved before approving a third credit and if there was continued progress with
implementing sector reforms. At the time of preparation of this ICR (June 2006), it
remained unclear what further revisions the Morales administration would make to the
water and sanitation sector regulatory framework and financing policies established during
the Program.

    (b) Education sector
The strategy for achieving stronger participatory management of the education sector met
with strong union opposition. A key step was to convene a Second National Education
Congress with ample participation of all actors. The Ministry of Education convened the
Congress but opposition from the teachers union forced its postponement. As a result,
during appraisal of the second credit, this objective had to be reshaped. New triggers were
established including focusing the multi-annual operational plan on actions for making
progress towards the MDGs.


6.5 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
        schedule, and funding allocations):

The second loan was reduced in value by $10mn, to reflect policy backsliding in the water
sector; and it was agreed not to proceed with the third operation, due to the reduction in the
IDA envelope and the changed priorities of the new government elected in December 2005.

7.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1     Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix):

Achievement of Program Objectives and Outcomes
The review conducted for this ICR confirmed that many of the actions supported by the two
operations resulted in positive outcomes contributing to the stated development objective. A
summary of the main achievements by component, related to their specific objectives,
included in the original Policy Matrix, is presented in the following paragraphs.


                                     Education
    · Moderate progress establishing and consolidating provincial councils1.
    · POMA for 2004-08 formulated and partially implemented with external financing.

1 However, in 2006 this structure was eliminated and greater emphasis was given to the role of School
Committees and Departmental Committees.



                                                 11

· Good progress expanding distribution of educational material, covering all
  municipalities with learning modules and one third with books for libraries. Bilingual
  education modules in 25% of schools and implementation of MOE's education portal.
· Program for expanding secondary education was designed, but is awaiting definitions
  for implementing it until after the Education Congress takes place.
· Nine municipalities implemented interventions to decrease gender gap.

                                Health
· One third of the municipalities have subscribed performance agreements for
  implementing results-based actions related to achieving the MDGs.
· Progress with indicators related to institutional birth attendance, coverage of DPT
  immunization and antenatal controls showed moderate improvements.             By 2005,
  coverage of institutional birth attendance had increased slightly reaching 62%,
  coverage of third dose of DPT was stable at 84% and four antenatal controls was also
  stable with a coverage of 50%.
· The Universal Mother and Child Insurance (SUMI) program was implemented with a
  substantial increase in service demand not yet reflected in health indicators.
· A bill of rights of pregnant women was published and disseminated, and surveys were
  implemented to review quality of care and patients' satisfaction in indigenous
  populations.
· GOB is showing moderate progress in a number of indicators related to immune-
  preventable diseases. The Malaria-Control Program is stable with an IPA index of 5.5
  per thousand, the Chagas-Control Program shows that 19% of municipalities have an
  infestation rate higher that 3% , and 85% of reported TB cases have been cured.
· Limited progress on formulating a human resource policy to be approved by
  CONAPES.

                           Social Protection
· The Social Protection Net (RPS) was created to implement medium-term counter-
  cyclical interventions in a more systematic way.
· DUF designed and implemented a program of conditional transfers to forty
  municipalities to encourage them to carry out projects directly related to the
  achievement of the MDGs.
· Social protection strategy under preparation for being presented to CONAPE.
· Good progress in program for monitoring impact of nutrition interventions in 165
  priority municipalities.
· The RPS implemented two income-generating mechanisms: a labor intensive projects
  component (PLANE) financing only labor, and a small scale projects component
  (PROPAIS) transferring resources for financing entire projects.
· PLANE generated 123,000 job-months during 2005, and surpassed the target of
  200,000 job-months between May 2004 and February 2006.




                                         12

                                 Water and Sanitation
   · Some progress in coverage of water supply close to the revised benchmarks for 2005 -
        86% in urban areas and 49.5 in rural areas.
   · Approval of Law 2649 that eliminates restrictions on channeling public resources
        directly to all utilities (Empresas Prestadoras de Servicios de Agua y Saneamiento,
        EPSAS), including cooperatives and those managed by private operators.
   · Enactment of a Supreme Decree that establishes a new financing policy and the
        Institutional Modernization Program for the sector.
   · New financing policy formulated, with ample participation, awaiting approval by
        CONAPE.
   · Enactment of the Supreme Decree that creates the agency that will support
        development of and will provide technical assistance to the EPSAS (Foundation for
        Sustainability Support of Basic Water and Sanitation ­FUNDASAB), which is
        expected to start operation later this year to nine EPSAS already selected.

                  Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation of the MDGs
   · GOB prepared a strategy for gathering and disseminating financial information at the
        municipal level.
   · The Governmental Information and Administrative Reform System (SIGMA), a
        system of public sector accounts sponsored by IDA, has been implemented in the
        central government and larger municipalities.
   · INE has created a platform with statistical data, available to all municipalities, with a
        module with MDGs indicators and it has disseminated its use.
   · GOB started to implement a participative evaluation system of citizen report cards
        through a network of NGOs.
   · UDAPE is publishing regularly information on MDG-related indicators for health,
        education and water and sanitation disaggregated by gender and ethnic groups at the
        municipal level.
        UDAPE carried out, through consultants, a study to assess financing required in health
        and education to meet the MDGs.

List of prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Documenst

                                SSPSAC I (The first operation in the series)
                                                                                                   Status

Action 1       The Borrower has issued a Decreto Supremo which regulates Law 2042 and             Met
               provides that 5% of the resources from its social security administration budget is
               allocated to fund disease prevention activities, particularly for PAI.
Action 2       The Borrower has issued a multi-annual operational plan (covering years from 2004  Met
               to 2008) which incorporates as part of its objectives the achievement of the
               Millennium Development Goals with respect to the education sector.

Action 3       The Borrower has: (a) enacted Law 2649; and (b) issued a Decreto Supremo which     Met
               establishes a new financing policy and an institutional modernization program for
               the water and sanitation sector (including resource allocation mechanisms to public
               and mixed service providers).




                                                     13

Action 4        The Borrower has issued a Decreto Supremo which mandates the creation of                Met
                FUNDASAB.
Action 5        The Borrower has created a social safety net which incorporates the following: (a)      Met
                mechanisms to coordinate existing social programs to avoid overlapping; (b) a
                coordination unit formally established under the direction of the Borrower's unique
                directorate of funds; (c) operating guidelines containing criteria to: (i) improve
                targeting according to unemployment and poverty incidence; and (ii) select eligible
                projects which are not part of the routine maintenance obligations of the Borrower's
                public entities; and (d) a design for a single beneficiary registry to identify targeted
                populations and properly allocate resources.
Action 6        The Borrower has taken the following actions as part of the implementation of a         Met
                participative evaluation system on the quality and adequacy of the Borrower's
                health, education and water and sanitation programs: (a) presented to the civil
                society a proposal of mechanisms and instruments for the follow-up and
                participative evaluation of the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals;
                and (b) signed an inter-ministerial agreement (between the Borrower's ministries in
                charge of health, education and water and sanitation) to develop the proposal
                referred to in subparagraph (a) above.




                                        SSPC II (The second operation)
List prior actions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                                Status
Condition 1     Health and Nutrition Sector: 1. Pursuant to the objective of reducing morbidity and     Met
                mortality associated with transmissible diseases, the Borrower has, between January
                1, 2004 and December 31, 2004 (a) increased coverage with the third dose of DPT
                by at least 5 percentage points in no less than 40% of the municipalities chronically
                at risk; (b) maintained the malaria Annual Parasite Index below or equal to 5.0 in
                municipalities; (c) not experienced a chagas infestation rate above 3% in more than
                16% of the municipalities in the territory of the Borrower and; (d) succeeded in
                curing 85% of the new positive reported cases of tuberculosis (TB).
Condition 2     Social Protection: (a)The Borrower defined the general conceptual and technical         Met
                framework of a national social protection strategy covering at least the RPS, PNC
                and PLANE programs supervised by the Borrower's DUF, including, inter alia, the
                definition of: (i) populations at risk and their associated needs; (ii) strategic
                priorities; (iii) main Borrower's interventions; (iv) budgetary requirements and
                investment timetable; and (v) the monitoring and evaluation system in relation
                thereto; and thereafter; (b) initiated the implementation of said strategy through the
                following activities: (i) design and ensuing initiation of the implementation, in 25
                priority municipalities, of a nutrition plan to prevent chronic malnutrition and
                associated infant mortality; (ii) expansion of PLANE within the context of a fully
                operational RPS in order to mitigate the effects of unemployment, thereby,
                committing funds to generate at least 200,000 temporary jobs between January 2004
                and June 2005; and (iii) initiation on a pilot basis, of conditional transfers to
                municipalities related to achieving MDGs in health.
Condition 3     Education Sector: Pursuant to the objective of fostering the institutionalization of    Met
                participative democracy in the education sector, and as set forth in the list of
                activities described in POMA, the Borrower has discussed POMA in 8 departmental
                congresses and 12 national workshops, and as a result thereof, has caused: (i) at least
                36 municipalities to distribute educational material by May 2005 and (ii) at least
                20% of public schools to adopt the Bilingual Education method by May 2005.




                                                        14

 Condition 4   Participative Evaluation and Monitoring of MDGs Pursuant to the objective of      Met
               establishing participative monitoring of the actions towards achievement of the
               MDGs stated in the LDP, the Borrower: (a) defined a strategy to ensure technical
               evaluation of the progress towards the achievement of the MDGs, including relevant
               links to the information systems and financing developments and requirements in
               relation thereto; (b) ensured the participation of civil society and Donors in the
               discussion events concerning the Borrower's progress with respect to the MDGs; and
               (c) initiated the monitoring and participative evaluation of the MDGs and issued
               reports communicated to all organs of the Borrower's government.

7.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

    (a) Political uncertainty and change.
The most important factor affecting implementation of the Program derived from the
unprecedented rapid political changes and the ensuing uncertainty that occurred during 2005.
However, the Program helped to mitigate the negative impacts of the crisis on the poorest
populations. Looking forward, the political changes of 2005/6 have introduced a degree of
uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the reforms supported by the DPL series in 2003-
2005. The election of the Morales administration has brought political stability to Bolivia, but
its implications for the policy reforms supported by the Program are not yet (June 2006)
completely clear. Some of the reforms are fully supported (nutrition, primary health care, and
strengthening of local governments and water service providers), but others are uncertain, e.g.
those related to education sector reform; water and sanitation; and social protection.

    (b) Budgetary constraints
The tight budgetary situation also affected program implementation.                      Although most
investment programs relevant for meeting agreed benchmarks were funded by multilateral and
bilateral support, others relied on budget approvals and quarterly quotas with national
resources and their budgetary support was uneven.

    (c) Worker resistance to administrative reform in health.
In the health sector, although good advances were achieved in other fields, the opposition
from health workers blocked the implementation of a new human resources policy. Although
good progress had been achieved in the design phase and in preparatory work under the first
credit, implementation of an inventory of existing staff profiles and competencies met with
hostility from the workers union and had to be dropped. This meant that by the end of the
program little progress had been achieved for completing the design and implementation of a
revised sector human resources policy.

    (d) Union resistance to participatory democracy in Education
Good progress was achieved during the first credit with a multi-annual operational plan; a
proposal for secondary education reform; and initiatives for closing the gender gap. However,
the process for achieving stronger participatory management of the sector met with strong
opposition. A key step was to convene a Second National Education Congress with ample
participation of all actors in the sector. The Ministry of Education convened the congress but
opposition from the teachers union forced its postponement. As a result, during appraisal of



                                                    15

the second credit this objective had to be reshaped. New triggers were established including
focusing the multi-annual operational plan on actions for making progress towards the MDGs.

    (e) Institutional instability and strategic changes on Social Protection
Following the approval of the SSPC II, progress in strengthening Bolivia's social safety net (a
key goal of the Program) was slowed by the lack of a stable institutional mandate. Initially,
this component was managed by the Single Directorate of Funds (DUF), an umbrella agency
coordinating the social funds.         However, in September 2005, CONAPE transferred
responsibility for the social safety net to the Ministry for Popular Participation, hindering the
advance of this work. The Morales administration has closed the Ministry for Popular
Participation and transferred the DUF to the Ministry of Planning, which has developed an
ambitious new Social Protection strategy. This has created uncertainty regarding the future of
existing elements of the social safety net (such as the social funds). Another example of
institutional instability was the cancellation of the water concession contract in La Paz/El
Alto, described in section 6.5 (a); however, it should be reiterated that the concession contract
was not in itself part of the strategy supported by the Program.

7.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

    (a) Program M&E
The MU rating for Monitoring and Evaluation for the ICR reflects the fact that (as seen in
section 6.2 above) up-to-date indicators are not available for several of the objectives which
were being supported by the operation, indicating the need to institutionalize the production
of the relevant information. UDAPE was given the role of monitoring the program
implementation as a whole and producing periodic progress reports. During the first credit,
progress reports were coordinated with IDA's special requests, normally associated with
supervision missions. During negotiations for the second credit, it was agreed that UDAPE
would produce progress reports at regular intervals. Sector ministries and other agencies
involved were to use their own monitoring systems to manage the respective components and
report progress to UDAPE towards meeting agreed targets. This was the right approach.
UDAPE complied to the best of its ability with its obligation providing timely reports of
progress towards meeting sector objectives. However, in practice, there were shortcomings in
the statistical information related to targets in education and health. In retrospect, it would
have been useful to enhance UDAPE's ability to perform a monitoring-oversight role. More
frequent reviews of issues with sector ministries; a system of early warnings; and
improvements in the gathering of key data would all have improved the monitoring of the
program.

    (b) Participatory monitoring of the MDGs
The program design included a component to support the participatory monitoring and
evaluation of the MDGs. This included: (a) developing the institutional capacity to evaluate
progress in the achievement of the MDGs; and (b) including the opinion of beneficiaries of
education, health and water and sanitation programs in the evaluation of these services. In
this setting, GOB developed a system for gathering and disseminating financial information
on basic services and other variables pertaining to the MDGs at the municipal level. It also



                                                16

implemented a system for disseminating information on the MDGs and sensitizing grassroots
organizations and municipalities on the need to work towards reaching agreed targets at the
municipal level. Additionally, GOB started a process, with Bank support, for implementing a
participatory evaluation system, adopting the methodology of citizen report cards for
evaluating social programs and conducting surveys of the quality of services in health,
education and water and sanitation. The Program also supported the development of the
Governmental Information and Administrative Reform System (SIGMA) to assist in the
objective of providing transparency and accountability to the resource allocation process.
GOB also implemented a strategy for the technical evaluation of the achievement of the
MDGs, which included creating an inter-sector technical committee, and the identification of
objectives, goals and indicators. As a result, as of June 2006, UDAPE is publishing,
periodically, although with some delay, information on the MDG-related indicators for health,
education and water and sanitation disaggregated by gender and ethnic groups at the
municipal level.


7.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Originally, a third operation was planned, to support consolidation of the reforms and measure
outcomes at household level. However, as noted earlier, it was decided not to go ahead with a
third operation. The main reason for not going ahead with a third credit was the limited
availability of IDA resources, together with the higher priority given to investment projects.
Additionally, the small amount available for policy lending had become less relevant for
alleviating the fiscal situation and to motivate MOF for taking an active role in pushing sector
reforms. Finally, the Morales administration wanted to make substantial revisions to some
areas of social sector strategy, which would make it difficult to achieve continuity with the
policy matrix laid out for the SSPDPC II operation.


8.      Assessment of Outcomes

8.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

The SSPC series was designed to help the Government maintain progress in its programs on
health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation, and social protection at a time of tight
fiscal constraints and growing political uncertainly. The first operation was focused on
conceptualization of the program and adoption of policies and laws needed to introduce key
reforms in each sector. The second credit was aimed at achieving satisfactory progress on
improved service delivery to key target groups through the implementation of the policy and
legal changes supported in the first operation. A key feature of the program was to attempt to
alleviate disparities in outcomes across regions, ethnic groups and social classes, contributing
toward achieving a number of MDGs. Both operations supported GOB's social sectors
programs in the specific areas described in the box below (see also the Policy Matrix in
Annex 1). The ICR review finds that this was a suitable approach, consistent with the social



                                                17

sector issues that the country was facing and adequately articulated with the CAS. The DPC
series provided an over-arching rationality for social sector operations in Bolivia including
sector investments in education and health and water & sanitation. It was well focused in
providing support to key policy decisions and continuity to follow up actions which made it
more likely that the investment operations would achieve their goals, notwithstanding the
context of political instability and social unrest as described above.


8.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal
linkages between policy actions supported by the operation and outcomes):

The program design was essentially sound. The policy reforms supported by the program
were relevant to generating the programmatic results and improved development outcomes
laid out in the Program matrix. The proposed reforms were correctly assessed as being
achievable within the timeframe and the political and social environment prevailing at the
time the program was designed. The expected improvements of development outcomes were
also reasonable in relation to the policy actions supported by the operation. The first operation
in the program was relatively successful in achieving its objective, notwithstanding the fragile
political and economic context in Bolivia during most of the implementation period and was
rated MS. However, the second operation ran up against growing difficulties linked to
political transition in 2004-2005 and ­ as can be seen in the table of targets included in section
6.1, advances with development outcomes were relatively modest. Up-to-date information is
not available for several of the important goals, making the evaluation of achievement of the
planned objectives difficult.

8.3     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of
PDOs):

 Rating:                           MU

The first operation (SSPSAC I) was relatively successful in achieving its objectives,
notwithstanding the fragile political and economic context in Bolivia, and the Outcome was
rated Satisfactory. However, the second operation (SSPC II) ran up against growing
difficulties linked to political transition in 2004-2005 and ­ as documented in the tabulation of
Indicators and Targets in Section 6.2, above, and in Annex 1 - advances in development
outcomes were relatively modest, leading to an outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.
At the same time, in some areas (such as water and sanitation ­ see section 6.6) there were
some setbacks. The SSPC II credit amount was reduced to reflect this situation, but it was
decided it was still important to go ahead, to provide support to those in the government able
to push ahead with parts of the reform agenda. Notwithstanding the difficulties, taken as a
whole, the Program helped to maintain a focus on the social sectors in the national agenda,
and assisted the GOB in refining its social sector strategy by providing an anchor and a set of
guideposts to the policies being implemented towards achieving the MDGs. The particular
value added of the Program was to provide policy continuity and stability in the social sectors
in an extremely volatile political setting. Additionally, the program had a positive impact in



                                                 18

strengthening an institutional network, led by VIPFE and UDAPE, involving key ministries
and agencies relevant for designing and implementing social sector policies.

8.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion above):

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

During the period of the operation, Bolivia continued to report improvements in many social
sector indicators such as health services (DPT coverage, birth attendance, antenatal controls)
and health outcomes (maternal mortality, infant mortality, chagas infestation, malaria parasite
index and % of TB cases cured with DOTS). But in education the outcomes are very modest
(a small number of municipalities working on gender disparities). In water and sanitation,
coverage increases during the program period were very modest, but Bolivia has achieved big
improvements over the previous decade and could still meet the MDGs. In social protection
there is very little data on the key issue of nutrition, but the available evidence suggests that
the rate of reduction of stunting is slowing and Bolivia will be stretched to meet the MDG in
this field without a major new initiative. Finally, in the field of participatory monitoring of the
MDGs, there were modest achievements. (Data on all these points are in Annex 1).

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development):

In retrospect, three institutional factors weakened the ability of GOB to implement agreed
actions under the program. Firstly, the lack of a mechanism to shield priority programs
against budgetary adjustment. Most priority actions and investment programs were financed
by external agencies but there was no specific commitment from the government to provide
adequate budgetary support. In an environment of tight fiscal constraints ministries and
implementing agencies frequently did not get adequate support and had little incentive to
work towards targets. Secondly, the GOB lacked the statistical information to assess whether
target indicators had been met on a timely basis. These deficiencies in the information system
were not identified at the design phase. Thirdly, insufficient consideration was given during
design to the monitoring function of UDAPE as a coordinating agency for the program. In
retrospect, stronger information systems would have enabled a closer monitoring during
program implementation and it would have been useful to have identified intermediary targets
as part of an early warning system to allow the GOB to take timely corrective actions when
outcomes did not move as expected. (This issue is further discussed in Section 7.3).

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

None




                                               19

8.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional
for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

Not applicable


9.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:                      Significant

The risk to the development outcome for this Programmatic series is rated significant due to
the high degree of political volatility in Bolivia, coupled with the continued weakness of
social sectors institutions and the sweeping changes in government policy that have followed
the 2005 elections. Although the final goals of the incoming administration in the social
sectors coincide with those promoted by the SSPC DPC series in most respects, on the other
hand, the sweeping changes underway in institutions and policies mean that many of the
specific strategies which were supported by the DPC series are likely to suffer major
alternations, with uncertain consequences for development outcomes.


10.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
10.1    Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry          (i.e., performance through
lending phase):

Rating:                          S

Ensuring Quality at Entry

IDA's performance during the lending phase is rated satisfactory for both credits. The
operation that was consistent with the prevailing CAS and made an important contribution to
the implementation of Bolivia's Social Sectors programs. The Program supported the GOB's
objectives and targets related to the MDGs, which the country was strongly committed to
implementing.     IDA helped the GOB in designing and updating the Policy Matrix and
selected the appropriate lending instrument. The programmatic approach provided an
opportunity for sustained, but flexible support to the social sectors through a period of
uncertainty. The program was provided budget support helping to close a financial gap at
critical times, particularly with the first credit. The intervention was well founded on IDA's
extensive analytical work on the various sectors, and took account of lessons learned from
other operations supporting decentralization, institutional reform, and social protection.
Finally, IDA took into account environmental sustainability recommendations in the health,
water and sanitation, and social protection sectors and many of the actions supported by the
program were directed at improving access to social services in predominately indigenous
areas. There is consensus among former and current government officials that IDA staff
made a positive contribution to the design of the program.


                                                 20

(b)      Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):

 Rating:                       MS

IDA provided adequate supervision during the first credit, helping to ensure that the GOB
reached the targeted benchmarks and triggers. Missions maintained a positive dialogue with
GOB on policies and actions that were needed as part of the preparation work of the second
credit. Quality of supervision for the first credit is thus rated satisfactory. However, after
the second credit was approved, there was a low supervision effort, which is linked to the fact
that quite soon thereafter it was decided not to continue with the third operation. It should be
noted that in practice the task of supervising an ongoing DPC operation is often done
concurrently with preparation of a following credit, when there is one. Practically, it becomes
a single activity for achieving both ends. As a result of the decision not to continue with the
series, no further DPL-specific supervision missions were fielded. However, sector policy
dialogue and follow-up were maintained through ongoing investment projects and policy
work in all sectors involved and technical advice was provided to assist the GOB in
maintaining efforts to keep the Program's objectives on track. Bearing in mind these
considerations, the quality of supervision during the second credit is rated as moderately
satisfactory.

(c)         Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

 Rating:             MS

IDA overall performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. This reflects the fact that the
program design and preparation were well thought out and the Bank team worked effectively
throughout the program to accommodate a very difficult in-country situation ­ including
making appropriate adjustments to the operation to reflect policy slippages that resulted from
the growing political crisis. However, precisely due to this uncertainty, the supervision effort
during the second operation arguably needed to be stronger, especially with regard to the
monitoring of outcome indicators for the program.

10.2     Borrower Performance
NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and justification
only for Overall Borrower Performance.


 x              Click here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or indistinguishable


(a)      Government Performance:

Rating:              NA




                                                      21

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating:            NA


                 Implementing Agency                                Performance
          1.
          2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating:                         MS

GOB's performance during preparation and implementation of the first credit is rated
Satisfactory; for the second credit, Moderately Satisfactory; and overall, Moderately
Satisfactory. Government officials had developed a clear vision of the actions and support
needed in the social sectors and even at a time of great change, policies were quickly
embraced by incoming officials. This commitment to important sector policies and actions
guided preparation work of the first credit with GOB maintaining focus on the overall
objective. However, the Government was operating in a context of political uncertainty and
social conflict which limited their ability to deliver on all the planned actions, and which
became progressively more difficult as the series progressed. Implementation of the first
credit, which overlapped with preparation of the second, had only minor shortcomings. GOB
ensured, by and large, that most actions were achieved as planned. The major problems that
prevented important actions in education and health derived from strong militant action from
their unions. It is unclear if under the political situation that prevailed during most of the
implementation period more could have been achieved. GOB, as represented by all the
agencies involved in this operation including the ministries of finance, health, education, and
basic services have shown a strong commitment to working together to implement this
programmatic operation. Finally, in coordination with this program, the GOB has set up a
technical group in charge of coordinating policies among different sectors, with the MDGs as
guiding principles. This group has been working in setting up the instruments that will allow
it to monitor progress towards the MDGs and the impact of different policies. MOF
acknowledged that both credits were useful to assist in closing the budgetary gap. However,
while disbursement of the first credit was quite prompt, there was a considerable delay, of
several months, for declaring effectiveness of the second operation jeopardizing the
importance of closing the budgetary gap. This delay was caused by the inability of MOF to
process the standard necessary documentation for declaring effectiveness. Additionally, GOB
slowed down implementation of policies and actions compared with its performance in the
first credit. The contradiction generated by the delay in declaring effectiveness and the
moderate shortcomings during implementation are the considerations taken into account for
qualifying, as moderately satisfactory GOB's implementation performance during the second
credit.




                                              22

11.    Lessons Learned
       (both operation-specific and of wide general application)

1. The programmatic approach was a suitable instrument to help anchor policy in a
period of growing uncertainty and instability. The DPC proved suitable to support reform
processes and to ensure policy continuity in the social sectors in a period of considerable
political instability and social unrest in Bolivia. The experience of the operation suggests that
instrument provides adequate flexibility for adapting to changes in the political environment
while maintaining in focus the overall program goals. This was particularly relevant at the
time of appraising the second credit, since it enabled to continue with the program while
dealing with a key issue affecting the water and sanitation component. It was also remarkable
that the contents in the program remained highly relevant during the whole implementation
period providing continuity of action in social policies during a period of weak governments
and high turnover of senior staff.

2. Using progress in a few selected MDGs as a theme provided a well focused overall
objective. The support provided by the Program was selective. It did not focus on all the
MDGs but a few, related to education, health, and water and sanitation. Also, the strategy of
building on existing institutions and legal frameworks rather than seeking legislative changes,
proved to be the right approach under prevailing political circumstances.

3. Clearer guidelines are needed for the role of supervision when a DPL program is
interrupted. In a series of programmatic interventions, supervision work for one is done
concurrently with preparation and appraisal of the next one. But an issue arises when a
program is interrupted. Because conditions are met upfront, there are no further triggers to be
met. Only follow-up of medium or long term objectives is left, and these normally go well
beyond the closing date of the last intervention. Current guidelines clearly indicate the need
for "continuous and rigorous supervision and monitoring of each intermediate operation".
However, the last intervention in a series, caused by an interruption, is generating an
ambiguity with the extent of the supervision effort needed. Staff would benefit of further
discussion and guidance on this matter.

4. The design of the monitoring system for this operation could have been improved.
UDAPE played a key role coordinating implementation, with line ministries and agencies
involved, and monitoring progress towards meeting triggers and benchmarks. However, it
lacked adequate processes and information systems to have met its obligations more fully. It
is clear that multi-sector programs need a strong coordination effort and a continuous
monitoring. By the same token, it is also critical that IDA staff have adequate resources for
undertaking close supervision of these programs and provide adequate technical assistance
until the program is completed. Perhaps a companion technical assistance operation would
have been useful to strengthen UDAPE's role as coordinator and to provide a larger
supervision effort.

5. A stronger alliance between the Ministry of Finance and line ministries and agencies
is critical for meeting agreed benchmarks.            During program implementation not all



                                                 23

ministries handled in the same manner their relations with the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
For some, it took some time to understand that this operation did not provide financial support
for meeting their commitments. Others quickly found that it was very useful to have the
support of MOF to get key approvals through the CONAPE. The alliance with the Ministry
of Planning was also very important given the coordination role that UDAPE played during
implementation of the program. Although MOF was instrumental in expediting actions for
meeting triggers and benchmarks, it did not always provided adequate budgetary support to
key programs. Public sector investment fell, in 2005 compared with 2004, by 6% in health,
19% in education and 21% in water and sanitation. For this reason, it would have been useful
to have a more explicit commitment to budgetary shield certain key programs.

6. The Bolivian context requires support for broad-based consensus-building. The
Bolivian political context underwent several radical changes over the program
implementation and the three administrations faced significant pressures from different and
opposing forces in society. There was a surge of popular participation in national political
decisions, which led to an unprecedented need for a broad-based consensus-building process.
In this context, future operations should focus on supporting policies that will increase the
"voice" of groups that have been silent in the past. This may include a higher level of
participation of civil society in evaluating the quality of basic services and higher
accountability in the use of resources.



12.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

   1. Macroeconomic outcome. The Bank agrees with the Borrower that the
      macroeconomic performance of Bolivia during the period covered by this operation
      was strong, but we believe this is already clearly stated in Section 6, and have not
      changed the ICR on this point.
   2. Section 7.1. The Bank agrees with the Borrower's comments and clarifications on the
      draft ICR in relation to the Education and Social Protection outcomes of the program,
      and this final version has been changed correspondingly.
   3. Institutional instability. The Bank agrees that the new Government's National
      Development Plan is more ambitious in regard to Social Protection than the previous
      Government's strategy. However, it believes that the process of transition to the new
      strategy will inevitably involve some uncertainty regarding elements of the old strategy,
      including those which were known as "The Social Safety Net". In relation to the section
      of the ICR which refers to the suspension of the contract with Aguas de Illimani as
      evidence of institutional instability, the Bank believes the drafting of the ICR makes it
      clear that this is not related to the "Social Safety Net" as such, but since the loan dealt
      with the water and sanitation sector, it remains appropriate to refer to this incident in
      the ICR. The Bank therefore notes the borrower's comments on these two points, but
      has not changed this section of the ICR.



                                               24

Erroneous cross reference. The cross reference to Section 6.2 which appears in section 8.2
of the draft ICR should have been to Section 6.1 of the report. This is now corrected.

(b)    Cofinanciers:



(c)    Other Partners and Stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):




                                             25

                             Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objective (from Program Document): (the system displays entries in
Section 6)

The second phase of the Social Sector Programmatic Development Policy Credit (SSPC)
series continues, through a DPC operation, to support Bolivia's efforts to achieve selected
MDGs through the implementation of a number of key social sector policies that were
designed during the first phase of this program. The SSPC II is expected to support social
sector.

policies with three broad goals in mind: (i) protecting the positive results reached in the last
decade in increasing access to and quality of health and nutrition, education, water and
sanitation, and social protection; (ii) implementing the sectoral policy frameworks designed
under the first phase of this programmatic series to continue progress in social outcomes and
move closer to achieving a number of specific Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by
2015; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of both the Government and civil society to monitor
and evaluate policies, increasing accountability and effectiveness. Implementing these
policies will advance achievement of specific MDGs by 2015.

Revised Program Development Objective (if any, as approved by original approving
authority): (the system displays entries in Section 6)

Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)  from Program Document (pulled by the system from the ISR, where
available)

                 Key SSPC II PDO indicators and targets (as approved) and present status
      Indicators                                         Measurement
                        Insert the measured value, or a qualitative indicator, or a brief explanation of why
                              indicators are not available, together with the date of the information
                           Baseline Value               Progress To Date          End-of-Project Target Value
                      Number or text     Date      Number or text       Date       Number or text       Date
PDO Indicator
1. Health-Maternal   235             12/30/1998 229                  12/30/2003 190                 12/30/2007
Mortality (MDG) (per
10,000 live births)
2. Health-Infant     67              12/30/1998 54                   12/30/2003 50 or less          12/30/2006
Mortality (per 1000
live births)
3. Education-POMA    Not             12/31/2000 Implemented          12/30/2005 Implemented         12/30/2006
(Multi Annual        implemented
Operating Plan)



                                                   26

4. Water and          72%              12/31/2003 73.2%               12/31/2005 77%                 12/31/2006
Sanitation-% of
population receiving
sustainable potable
water supply services
(MDG)
5. Water and          41.3%            12/31/2003 42.3%               12/31/2005 49%                 12/31/2006
Sanitation-% of
population receiving
sustainable sanitation
services (MDG)
6. Water and          No data          12/31/2000 No data             12/31/2005 23%                 12/31/2006
Sanitation-% of
population with waste
water adequately
treated
7. Water and          42%              12/31/1992 26.8%               12/31/2005 36%                 12/31/2006
Sanitation-% of
population without
access to water
supply
8. Social Protection- 29%              12/31/2000 24.2%               12/31/2003 25%                 12/31/2006
Chronic Malnutrition
in children under 3
(MDG)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Program Document (pulled by the system
from the ISR, where available)


              Key SSPC II Intermediate outcome indicator(s) (as approved) and present status
      Indicators                                           Measurement
                         Insert the measured value, or a qualitative indicator, or a brief explanation of why
                               indicators are not available, together with the date of the information
                            Baseline Value               Progress To Date          End-of-Project Target Value
                       Number or text     Date      Number or text       Date      Number or text       Date


1. Health-Improved    No data/ No      12/31/2001 No data/ No         12/30/2005 Skilled birth       12/29/2006
coverage in           data/ No data/               data/ - DPT                     attendance,
prioritized           No data                      cover increased                 Coverage of 3d
municipalities: -                                  at least 5% in                  dose of DPT
Skilled birth                                      40% of                          and complete
attendance/ -                                      municipalities -                antenatal
Coverage of 3d dose                                33.6% of                        controls:
of DPT/ -Complete                                  municipalities                  Improve from




                                                    27

antenatal controls/ -%                            had                        2004 baseline./
of municipalities with                            performance                %munic with
performance                                       agreements                 perf. Agreem:
agreements                                                                   More than 20%
2. Health- -Skilled   55%/ 80%/        12/31/2003 62%/ 84%/ 50% 12/30/2005 70.0/ 95%/ n.d. 12/30/2015
birth attendance at   38%/
national level/ -
Coverage of DPT at
national level/ -
Complete antenatal
controls at national
level
3. Health-Expansion   No certification 12/31/2000 Traditional     12/31/2005 Traditional     12/31/2006
of Intercultural      of traditional              doctors are                doctors are
service by certifying doctors                     being certified            being certified
traditional doctors
4. Health-% of        69%              12/30/2003 80.7%           12/30/2005 87%             12/30/2006
municipalities with
Chagas infestation
rate less than 3%
5. Health-Malaria     6.1             12/30/2003 5.5              12/30/2005 3.5             12/30/2006
Annual Parasite
Index (API) (MDG)
6. Health-            52.6             12/30/1995 85.2            12/30/2004 80.0            12/30/2006
Tuberculosis annual
risk of infection
(MDG)
7. Education-                                     Scheme being    12/31/2005 Working (to be 12/30/2006
Educational Councils                              revised                    replaced by
                                                                             another system)
8. Education-         0               12/31/2000 9                12/31/2005 At least 9      12/30/2006
Municipalities
implementing
program to close
gender gap
9. Water and          No adequate      12/31/2000 FUNDASAB        12/31/2005 An adequate     12/31/2006
Sanitation-           regulatory                  will start                 regulatory
Management            agency                      operating in               agency
Performance of                                    second half of
EPSAS and                                         2006
sustainability of the
water and sanitation
services at the
national level.




                                                   28

10. Social Protection- no data    12/31/2000 no data       12/31/2005 Decreased by  12/30/2006
Number of children                                                    20%
under 3 with anemia
in 165 high risk
municipalities
11. Social Protection- no data    12/31/2000 no data       12/31/2005 Decreased by  12/30/2006
Number of pregnant                                                    20%
women with anemia
in 165 high-risk
municipalities
12. Social Protection- no data    12/31/2000 no data       12/31/2005 50%           12/30/2006
% of 165 priority
municipalities with
nutrition intervention
being monitored and
evaluated
13. Monitoring and     Poor       12/31/2000 partially     12/31/2005 increased     12/30/2006
Evaluation-Level of                          improved
transparency on
budget allocations
and execution


14. Monitoring and     Poor       12/31/2000 some          12/31/2005 reliable      12/30/2006
Evaluation-Statistical                       improvement
information useful
for decision making
on types and levels of
public interventions
for achieving MDGs
15. Monitoring and     Poor       12/31/2000 some          12/31/2005 increased     12/30/2006
Evaluation-Quality,                          improvement
coverage and
targeting of social
services necessary to
achieve the MDGs
16. Monitoring and     no data    12/31/2000 Good progress 12/31/2005 Being carried 12/30/2006
Evaluation-Periodic                          in work by               out
evaluations of                               UDAPE and
progress made in                             INE
achieving the MDGs
followed by
participatory
discussions and
feedback to improve
social sectors policies




                                              29

                                    Annex 2. Restructuring


Restructuring    Board          ISR Ratings at         Amount Disbursed         Reason for Restructuring
Date(s)          Approved       Restructuring           at Restructuring                    &
                 PDO                                        in US$mil.             Key Changes Made
                 Change        DO            IP

N/A




  If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body) enter
                                            ratings below:

                                                                          Outcome Ratings

Against Original PDO/Targets

Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets

Overall (weighted) rating                                  [the same rating as Section 8]




                                                  30

       Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members
          Name                           Title                 Unit         Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

SSPSAC I

Juan Pablo Uribe          Health Specialist                  LCSHH     Task Team Leader

SSPC II

Daniel Dulitzky           Senior Economist                   LCSHH     Task Team Leader

Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


SSPSAC I

Daniel Dulitzky           Senior Economist                   LCSHH     Task Team Leader

SSPC II

Ian Walker                Lead Social Protection Specialist  LCSHS     Task Team Leader

Jorge Barrientos          Consultant                                   ICR preparation


    (b) Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
         No.          Date ISR Archived       DO           IP        Actual Disbursements (US$mil.)
  SSPSAC I
  1                  11/29/2004            S           S
  2                  12/21/2004             S          S           SDR 17.2 million/US$ 25.0 million
                                                                   equivalent
  SSPC II
  1                  09/29/2006            MU          MU          SDR 10.0 million/US$15.0 million
                                                                   equivalent

(a) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
             Stage                No. of Staff Weeks                     US$ Thousands
                                                              (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
SSPSAC I
             FY05                    29.34                                       88,211.65
             FY06                     0.40                                          340.96
SSPC II
             FY05                    23.72                                      118,087.40
                     TOTAL:          53.46                                      206,640.01
Supervision/ICR
SSPC II
             FY06                     8.25                                       54,560.72
             FY07                     6.35                                       35,994.12
                     TOTAL                 14.6                                90,554.84


                                                   31

                 Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable




                                    32

          Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable




                                   33

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              34

35

     Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                   36

                          Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document SSPC II, April 26, 2005
   Letter of Development Policy, April 21, 2005
3. Program Document SSPSAC I, May 17, 2004
4. ISRs from both projects




                                               37

[MAP]




 38

