                                            Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                                                   ReportNo. 28275-BO


                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT

   FOR A PROPOSEDSOCIAL SECTORS PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL

                                   ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                         INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$25.0MILLION


                             TO THE REPUBLIC OFBOLIVIA



                                          May 17,2004




HumanDevelopment Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may beusedby recipients only inthe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization

             GOVERNMENTFISCAL YEAR January 1-December 31
                                      Currency Equivalents
                       (Exchange RateEffective as of April 26,2004)
                                   Currency Unit=Boliviano
                                          US$l.OO = 7.89

                           ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
APS         Primaryhealthcare (AtencidnPrimria en Salud)
CAS         Country AssistanceStrategy
CAF         AndeanDevelopmentBank (Corporacidn Andina de Fomento)
CEPOS       EducationCouncils of NativeCommunities (ConsejosEducativosde Pueblos Originarios)
CFAA        CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CISE        Inter Institutional Committee for Monitoring and Evaluation (Comite' Interinstitucional de
            Seguimientoy Evaluacidn)
CNE         NationalCongresson Education(CongresoNacional de Educacidn)
CONAN       NationalCouncilof FoodandNutrition (ConsejoNacional deAlimentacidn y Nutricidn)
CONED       NationalEducationCouncil(ConsejoNacional de Educacidn)
DFID        Departmentfor IntemationalDevelopment
DHS         DemographyandHealthSurvey (Encuest! Nacional de Demografia y Salud, ENDSA)
DUF         Unique Directorateof Funds(Directorio Unicode Fondos)
DILOS       Local HealthBoards (DirectoriosLocales de Salud)
EPSAS       Water and Sanitation Provider Companies (Empresas Prestadoras de Servicios de Agua y
            Saneamiento)
ERP         EducationalReformProgram
FDI         ForeignDirectInvestment
FPS         SocialandProductiveFund(FondoProductivoy Social)
FNDR        NationalFundfor RegionalDevelopment (FondoNacional de Desarrollo Regional)
FSN         NationalRedistributionFund(Fondo SolidarioNacional)
FUNDASAB   Foundation for Sustainibility Support of Basic Water Sanitation (Fundacidn de Apoyo a la
            Sostenibilidad en SaneamientoBdsico)
Govemment   The NationalGovemmentof Bolivia
GTZ         DeutscheGesellschaft fiir TechnischeZusammenarbeit
GDP        Growth DomesticProduct
HIPC        Highly IndebtedPoor Countries
IDA         IntemationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDB         Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
IMF         InternationalMonetaryFund
INE         NationalInstituteof Statistics(Instituto NacionaldeEstadistica)
JSA        Joint StaffAssessment
KfW         Kreditanstaltfir Wiederaufbau
MCS        Mechanismof SocialControl (Mecanismode Control Social)
MDGs       MilleniumDevelopmentGoals
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOH         Ministry of Health
MNCS        NationalSocial ControlMechanism(Mecanismo Nacional de Control Social)
NPLs       NonPerformingLoans
PAHO       PanAmericanHealthOrganization
PAI        ExpandedProgramof Immunization(Program Ampliado de Inmunizacidn)
PAN        Programfor Nutritional Support (Program deApoyo Nutricional)
PENS       Nucleus EducationalProjects (Proyectos Educativos de Nicleos)
PLANE      EmergencyEmploymentProgram(Programade Empleo de Emergencia)
PNC        NationalCompensationPolicy (PoliticaNacional de Compensacidn)
POA        AnnualOperationalPlan(Plan OperativoAnual)
PROMEs     Municipal EducationalDevelopmentPrograms(ProgramasMunicipales Educativos)
PRSC       PovertyReductionSupportCredit
PRSP       PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
RPS        SocialProtectionNet (ReddeProteccidn Social)
SBA        Stand-By Arrangement
SDR        SpecialDrawingRights

                                                               FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY
     SEDES     DepartmentalHealthServices(Servicio Departamental de Salud)
     SIGMA     Govemmental Information and Administrative Reform System (Sistema de Informacidn
               Gubernamental y Modernizacidn Administrativa
     SIMECAL   QualityandMeasurementSystem(Sistemade Medicidn y Calidad)
     SNIS      NationalHealthInformationSystem(SistemaNacional deInfonnacidn en Salud)
     SSPSAC    SocialSectorsProgrammaticStructuralAdjustment Credit
     SUM1      UniversalMother andChildInsurance (Seguro Universal Matemo-InfantiZ)
     UDAPE     Analysis Unit for Social and Economic Policies (Unidad de Andisis de Politicas Econdmicas y
               Sociales)
     UNDP      UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
     UPC       ProductivityandCompetitivenessUnit (Unidadde Productividady Competitividad)




                                   Vice President:Davidde Ferranti
                                   Country Director:Marcel0 Giugale
                                  Sector Director:Ana-Mm'a Aniagada
                                    Task Manager:JuanPabloUribe

This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                    THEREPUBLICOFBOLIVIA
 SOCIALSECTORSPROGRAMMATICSTRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


CREDITAND PROGRAMSUMMARY ..................................................................................                               1
I INTRODUCTION..............................................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                        1
I1. THE SOCIAL, POLITICALAND ECONOMICSETTING ............................................                                                4
  A .  The SocialandPoliticalContext....................................................................................                 4
  B.   The Economic Context...................................................................................................            5
  C. PublicExpendituresinthe SocialSectors......................................................................                         9
I11.   SOCIAL SECTORS: REFORMS AND ISSUES ..........................................................                                      9
  A. A SocialSectors Programis Needed..............................................................................                       9

  Prior Actions.........................................................................................................................
  B.   The Government's Social Sectors Program: Issues, Strategy, ExpectedOutcomes and
                                                                                                                                         11
  C .  Monitoring andEvaluationof the Program..................................................................                          30
   D. FiscalCostsof the ProposedProgram..........................................................................                        31
   .
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT.........................................................................................................
IV     THE PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTORS PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                                                         33
  A. Linksto CountryAssistance Strategy and Other Bank Operations .............................                                          33
  B.   Coordinationwith other Donors...................................................................................                  36
  C .  Rationalefor aProgrammatic ApproachandProgramDesign....................................                                           36
   D. The Loans.....................................................................................................................     37
  E.   ProgramImplementationandSupervision...................................................................                            39
  F.   Benefits andRisks........................................................................................................         43

Annexes


Annex 1:           Letter of Development Policy (Original and Translation)
Annex 2:           BoliviaSSPSAC Policy Matrix
Annex 3:           Prior SSPSAC-1 Actions and SelectedMDGs, Targets and Indicators
Annex 4:           Bolivia's Experience with Results-BasedManagement
Annex 5:           Bolivia SSPSAC Water and Sanitation Technical Report
Annex 6:           Bolivia's National DialogueandPoverty Reduction Strategy
Annex 7:           IMF'sRelationNote
Annex 8:           Bolivia at a Glance
Annex 9:           Bolivia Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 10:          Operations Portfolio
Annex 11:          Key Economic & ProgramIndicators




The World Bank task team contributingto the preparationof this credit includes: PatriciaAlvarez, Juan Carlos Alvarez,
Monica Claros, Mary Dowling, Daniel Dulitzky, MenahemLibhaber, Ruth Llanos, Carlos Mollinedo, John Newman,
Manuel Salazar, Nicole Schwab, Carlos A. Rojas, Roby Senderowitsch, Sergei Soares, Juan Pablo Uribe and Mm'a
Alejandra Velasco. Important contributions have been made by Keisgner Alfaro, Omar Arias, PatriciaBemedo, Sara
Calvo, Suzana Campos, Chris Chamberlain, Daniel Cotlear, Luis Crouch, Christopher Humphrey, Theresa Jones,
RafaelRofman, RajeevSwamiand MarianelaZeballos.

                                  The Republic of Bolivia
               Social SectorsProgrammatic StructuralAdjustment Credit
                      CREDITAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower             The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary          Ministry of Finance

Amount               SDR 17.2 million (approximately US$ 25.0 million)
Terms                20 years, IO-yeargrace period.
Objectives
and Description      The objective of this series of three single tranche Social Sectors
                    Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credits (SSPSACs) is to help the
                    Government of Bolivia maintain progress in health and nutrition,
                    education, water and sanitation, and social protection in spite of an
                     important fiscal crisis. In order to meet this objective, the SSPSACs
                    would support specific actions as discussed below and promote greater
                    results orientation and accountability in the social sectors. This Program
                     will better position Boliviato achieve the MillenniumDevelopment Goals
                     (MDGs) by reducing disparities in outcomes across different regions,
                    ethnic groups and income classes.
                    The first SSPSAC would support the following set of actions in each
                     sector:
                             Health and Nutrition: expand coverage of primary health care
                             with an intercultural approach, in order to reach underserved
                             sectors of the population, and improve the functioning of the
                             health service network to further reduce matemal and child
                             mortality; policies to reduce malnutrition and anemia in children
                             under three years and pregnant women; and secure financing of
                             programs aimed at reducing the incidence of communicable
                             diseases and increasing the coverage of immunizations.
                             Education: develop the Bolivian Educational Strategy with
                             popular participation through the National Education Council and
                             the 11 National Education Congress; design and implement
                             specific actions to increase completion rates in primary education
                             and improve secondary education.
                             Water and Sanitation: implement new financing and technical
                             assistance policies for the sector and measures to improve the
                             management and efficiency of service providers, leading to
                             increaseaccess to water and sanitation services.
                             Social protection: create and implement a social protection
                             network, to be followed by the definition of a national social
                             protection strategy; improvements in the efficacy of PLANE, and
                             introductionof incentives for municipalities to achieve MDGs.
                             Accountability and Transparency: undertake measures in all
                             sectors to increase citizen access to information on public social
                             sector expenditures, and consolidate a national information


                                            1

                            system that includes users' opinions, for the participatory
                            monitoring and evaluation of progress towards achieving MDGs
                            at the national and municipal levels.
                   Depending on Bolivia's progress towards the preparation of its new
                   Poverty Reduction Strategy, the second and/or third credit in this series
                   could be converted into a Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC). A
                   policy matrix spelling out the objectives of the proposed program, actions
                   and progress benchmarks for each one of the three credits that will
                   support the Government's efforts in the social sectors, as well as expected
                   medium term outcomes and monitoring and evaluation measures, i s
                   provided as Annex 2.
Benefits/ Results  The proposed series of SSPSACs would help the Government maintain
                   progress in the social sectors and improve access of the poor to basic
                   services in health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation and social
                   protection in a time of critical social and fiscal scenarios, by supporting
                   the implementation of key actions as well as a greater results-based
                   orientation in the social sectors. This is expected to lead to increased
                   coverage in those sectors and put the country in a closer path to achieve
                   the MDGs. Efforts to improve accountability and transparency will
                   enhance institutional sustainability of social policies through increased
                   civil society engagement, making social programs more effective and
                   sustainable.    Close coordination with the international community,
                   including joint financing with the German international agencies (KfW),
                   will help align efforts and build on existing synergies and
                   complementarities.
Risks              The proposed credit involves various risks, including:
                   -    At the country level, risks derived from the still fragile political and
                        social    scenario,   the   stringent  fiscal  situation,   the   weak
                        implementation capacity        of different levels of government
                        (aggravated by the ongoing crisis) and the uncertainty in the results
                        of key consultative processes (the National Dialogue, the passage of
                        a new hydrocarbon law, the gas referendum and the Constitutional

                   -    Assembly);
                        Specific program-related implementation risks that could result in
                        limited progress in the second and third phases of the program and,
                        therefore, of diminished returns for the prior actions supported under

                   -    this first Credit; and
                        Design risks, understood as eventual gaps between the identified
                        contents and what could best be achieved at this moment to advance
                        the MDGagenda inthe country.
                   For the above risks in implementation and design, mitigating actions have
                   already beenconsidered.
Schedule of
Disbursements      SDR 17.2 million (approximately US$25 million) will be disbursed upon
                   credit effectiveness.
FinancingPlan      The tentative financing plani s as follows:
                   IDA                        SDR 17.2 million (approx. US$25 million)
                   KfW (joint financing) Euros 8.0 million (approx. US$9.5 million)
                   Total approx.              US$34.5 million


                                            2

                       INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                                   FORA
      SOCIALSECTORSPROGRAMMATICSTRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                                  TO THE
                                       REPUBLICOFBOLIVIA



                                        I. INTRODUCTION

 1. This Program Document presents the first of a series of three single-tranche Social Sectors
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credits (SSPSACs) to the Republic of Bolivia. The proposed
Credit, in the amount of SDR 17.2 million (equivalent to approximately US$ 25 million), i s intended
to help the Government of Bolivia maintain progress in health and nutrition, education, water and
sanitation and social protection at a time of important fiscal constraints. While Bolivia has initiated
successful reform efforts in the social sectors that have contributed to improvements in social
indicators over the last decade, the difficult economic situation of the last several years has shifted
debate and attention away from the social sectors. The 2004 National Dialogue that will provide
essential inputs for the revision of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy will be devoted almost
exclusively to issues related to supporting the productive sectors. There i s currently a risk that
Boliviamay go to the extreme of focusing on efforts to improve the productive sectors and neglect to
carry out the additional actions which are required to maintain and, in some cases, accelerateneeded
progress inthe social sectors. The Government's decision to come forward with this program at this
time provides a strong signal of its determination to continue to make progress inthe social sectors,
including greater results-orientation and accountability.
2. Ifthe Credit is successfulin achieving this objective, it will better position Bolivia to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).                Two progress reports prepared by the national
government together with UNDP suggest that, in 2002, Bolivia was on track to reach two of the
seven selected MDGs -gender equity and the reversion of the main communicable diseases (see
Table 1). However, Bolivia i s currently going through a very difficult situation, including recurrent
social unrest, a large fiscal imbalance, a fragile financial situation and the legacy of four years of
slow economic growth. Even before these difficulties arose, much remainedto be done to attain the
MDGs. Of particular concern were the persistent wide gaps in outcomes between different regions
and ethnic groups, the need to strengthen accountability and monitoring and evaluation, and the
challenge to align national social priorities with municipal-level actions and results in half-way
decentralized social sectors. As a result, the challenge of Bolivia attainingthe MDGs i s now greater,
as the country i s today less likely than it was three years ago to achieve these goals.
3. In light of the difficult context and persistent challenges, the proposed Credit has to make
strategic choices to ensure a higher probability of success and impact. First, it i s focused on a
limited number of the goals and targets of the MDGs-namely those most related to the problems in
health, education and water and sanitation. It does not focus on activities designed to improve
income or consumption measures of poverty, because those will be the main topic of what is
expected to be an extensive debate surrounding the revision of the Poverty Reduction Strategy.


                                                    1

However, if Bolivia i s successful in formulating a new PRSP, this project's programmatic nature
would make it possible to convert the second and/or third credits of this series into a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC), incorporating productive sector activities and other relevant
components as needed (e.g. actions to strengthen public financing management derived from the
CFAA forthcoming recommendations). Second, the project does not focus on those MDGs where
Bolivia either has already made substantial progress or does not face a significant problem. Thus,
the project does not focus on the MDGrelated to gender equality because, relative to the other goals,
Bolivia i s doing well here. Likewise, the policy matrix contains no specific actions related to the
HIV/AIDS goal because HIV prevalencei s still quite low.
4. The prior actions for this Credit have been designed to take into account the different initial
conditions prevailing in the various sectors at the time of preparation. For example, there i s a
relatively strong consensus on the direction of the health sector strategy. The challenge i s to make
sure that Bolivia can implement the strategy effectively -both in addressing the need to target and
prioritize health care in certain groups of the population and to scale up successful programs. Inthe
case of education, Bolivia hasjust finished the first phase of a reform that has been very successful
in increasing primary education coverage rates, but has been criticized within the country for not
providing sufficient voice to interested parties. The challenge here will be to develop a strategy for
the reform's second phase that i s open to additional views, but that ensures that actions get done that
yield continuedimprovement ineducational outcomes.
5. Given Bolivia's current circumstances, this SSPSAC series can not be considered a response to
"business as usual". A programmatic instrument was chosen to maintain priority and direction in
important progress made in the social sectors (as discussed below), yet allowing for flexibility in
specific actions and instruments. The social contents identified in the program are considered to
remain highly relevant for Bolivia inthe coming years irrespective of how the current circumstances
are resolved. The first phase of the program, for which prior actions will have been taken by the
time of Boardpresentation, i s certain. Benchmarks for the secondand third credits inthe series have
been identified to define sufficiently the process, policy direction and monitoring outcomes expected
in each sector while takinginto account the uncertainties that lay ahead as the country progresseson
critical consultative processes (such as the National Dialogue, the gas referendum and the national
constitutional assembly). Hence, they provide prudent space and flexibility to further discuss and
agree on the specific contents, policy instruments and credit structures of the subsequent phases of
this series with the Government and other co-financing agencies once progress on the first Credit has
been evaluated, the results of core consultative processes are known, and further experience has been
acquired in the social sectors followingparticipatory and systematic reviews of the results obtained.
6. The proposed Credit is aligned fully with the Bolivia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
presented to the Board on January 8, 2004. The CAS clearly identified the role of this series of
SSPSACs in supporting progress inthe social sectors, highlightingthat particular attention would be
paid to reducing inequality in education, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation outcomes
across municipalities, ethnic groups and income classes. As reflected in the CAS, if at subsequent
stages of preparation Bolivia has made progress in formulating its revised PRSP, the second and/or
thirdSSPSACsinthis series could beconverted into a broader PRSC.
7. This series of SSPSACs has been prepared closely with other international donors. Germany
(through KfW and GTZ) has actively participated with technical assistance and joint missions with
the Bank in its preparation and has formally announced its interest in co-financing the first Credit in
this series with Euros 8 million.' Meetings with the donor community were held in L a Paz to ensure


  This amount for the SSPSAC-I i s still tentative and could be increasedto up to Euros 21 million, including 1 million for
  strengtheningmonitoringandevaluation. KfW co-financingfor the subsequent creditsinthis series will also be defined
  lateron, as Programimplementationprogresses.



                                                          2

coordination aroundthe proposed social program and the areas to be supported by the SSPSACs, and
seek synergism with other ongoing efforts. Various countries have contributed significantly with
their experience and technical assistance in the design of specific components of this operation.
Lastly, this series of SSPSACs has been closely linked to an overall intemational donor effort in
Boliviato support monitoringand evaluation of progressmadeto attain the MDGs.




                                                                   Observed                      Projected
                  NationalTargets                                                                                    MDG
                                                             1990       Mostrecent
                                                                            year          2004      2007     2015     2015

           Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger (2015 target = halve 1990 $1 a day poverty and malnutrition               *
           rates)
Target 1.1 Incidence of extreme Poverty (% of the         38.1 (1997)    36.8 (2002)      33.7      29.6      20.0    19.2
population) a/
Target 1.2 Incidence of moderate poverty (% of the        63.6 (1997)    64.6 (2002)      60.6       55        41     n.a.
population) a/
           Goal 2: Achieve universalprimary education (2015 target =net enrollment to 100)                                   1   Off
                                                                                                                               track

Target 2.1 Primarycompletionrate(8" grade)                55.4(1992)     71.5 (2001)      75.3      80.7      88.8    100

           Goal 3: Promote gender equality (2005 target =educationratio to 100)                                                  On
                                                                                                                               track

Target 3.1 Gender gap inprimarycompletionrate             6.6 (1992)     3.7 (2001)        2.5        0        0        0

           Goal 4: Reduce child mortality (2015 target =reduce 1990 under 5 mortality by two-thirds)                             Off
                                                                                                                               track
Target 4.1 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)  89 (1989)       67(1998)        58.8      55.2      45.1     32

           Goal 5: Improve maternal health (2015 target =reduce 1990maternalmortality by three-fourths)                       I  Off
                                                                                                                                track
Target 5.1 Matemal mortality rate (per 100,000 live
births)                                                   416 (1989)     390 (1994)       317       279       200      104

           Goal 6: Combat HIVIAIDS, malaria and other diseases(2015 target = halt, and begin to reverse, AIDS, etc.)          I  On
                                                                                                                                track
Target 6.1 Percentage of municipalities with Chagas
infestationrate>3%                                             -_         48 (2003)         38       10        0        0

           Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability (2015 target = various (halve, by 2015, the proportion of people          Off
           without sustainableaccessto safe drinkingwater)                                                                      track
Target 7.1 `Overage      Of              water (% Of
households)                                               53.9(1992)     72.2 (2001)      74.3 ,     79       86.5    76.9




Source: UDAPE, INE, Ministry of Education and UNDP. The targets will be reviewedfollowing the conclusions of the ongoingNational
Dialogue2004 and subsequent PovertyReduction Strategy.

a/ Baseline data correspondto the 1997 National Survey on Employment.This i s the first available source of information that collected
datato measure poverty levelsby income.
* Thereareongoingsimulationsbeingdoneby UDAPEto reviewifprogressmadeonthe poverty-relatedMDGi ontrack or not.s




                                                                3

             11.      THESOCIAL, POLITICALAND ECONOMIC SETTING

8. Bolivia i s facing a positive extemal environment not seen since the mid-1990s.                     As a
consequence, and in spite of a difficult internal social and political context, exports are booming and
there are indications of reactivation in the non-export sectors. In parallel, the Government i s
addressing macro-financial vulnerabilities. However, political differences on how to handle these
vulnerabilities and the perception that the Govemment is not fulfilling its promises fast enough have
led to opposition to its political-legislative agenda and frequent outbursts of social unrest. The
ability of the administration to handle this situation is key to ensure the stability of the economy and
progress inthe social areas. The following sections discuss these underlyingtrends in more detail.
A.       The SocialandPoliticalContext

9. Bolivia's socio-political context is a major challenge for the current administration. Upon taking
office in October 2003, President Mesa announced a cabinet made of independent members, which
was very well received by most Bolivians already frustrated with the country's history of weak
governance. The national Government also announced a legislative agenda made of three pillars: (i)
a reform of the country's hydrocarbons law aimed at regulating the distribution of hydrocarbons
revenue among privatized oil and gas companies; (ii)            a referendum on gas exports; and (iii)reform
                                                                                                    a
of the Constitution by means of a national Constitutional Assembly, that would address long
standing fundamental issuesbehind Bolivia's problems, such as regional inequities and the inclusion
of indigenous populations. A draft law of hydrocarbons has already been presented to civil society
for discussion, and the referendum on gas exports is expected to take place on July 18, 2004.
Implementation of this political-legislative agenda i s progressing slowly due to strong resistance
from various stakeholders. As a result, the Government faces renewed social pressureand a difficult
legislativeenvironment.
10. Bolivia's current fragile socio-political environment is the result of persistent high levels of
poverty and inequality, and governance weaknesses in a context of lower incomes resulting from
shocks that hit Bolivia inrecent years (more on this below). The drop inper capita income that took
place in recent years has been greatest among the lowest income deciles in the rural areas and in all
but the wealthiest deciles in the urban areas (Figure 1). As measured by its 2000 Gini coefficient,
Bolivia is among the countries with the highest levels of income disparity in Latin America and the
Caribbean.
 Figure 1. Bolivia 1999-2002, Change inHousehold Income Per Capita by Income Deciles and Area



                              0.06,
                              0 04

                              0.02

                                 0

                             -0.02

                             -0.04

                             -0 06

                             408

                              -0.1                                       +Rural
                                                                         *Urban
                             -0.12
                                  1   2    3    4     5     6       7   8      9  10
                                               kiter ofPerCapka Income




 This sectiondraws heavily on the CAS approved by the Board on January 8,2004.



                                                      4

11. Increasing inequality has led to mobilizations of poor and long-excluded people. But these
groups do not share a unified voice, hence there are growing tensions among them, in particular
among regions, classes, and indigenoushon indigenous groups.                                 The highland versus lowland
tension also reflects a split between mainly AymardQuechua and mainly Spanish descendants. This
tension has always existed but has been exacerbated by recent events. As part of the social
movement, there is a desire for greater political and economic power. Even before the latest round
of conflicts in October 2003 that toppled the previous government, it appeared that pressuring the
government through demonstrations in the streets -whether                             violent or otherwise- was a winning
strategy.
12. In recent weeks, demonstrations and protests have increased, fueled in part by the perception that
the current administration is not delivering on its promises. The outcome of the political-legislative
agenda presented six months ago and the stability of this administration will depend on the
Government's ability to handle Bolivia's fragile social and political environment.
B.        The Economic Context

13. The Bolivian Govemment is addressingBolivia' s economic vulnerabilities-largely                            the result of
shocks--aiming at restoring conditions for fast and sustainedgrowth. Major adverse external shocks
and intemal difficulties have slowed down economic growth in recent years in Bolivia, despite a
strong expansion in hydrocarbons. On the external front, the shocks included the international
capital market turmoil after the Russian crisis of 1998 that led to scarceprivate externalfinancing for
Bolivia and its trading partners, the 1999 devaluation in Brazil, and the 2001 devaluation in
Argentina and its ensuing crises. On the intemal front, the shocks included further coca eradication
(that had started in the mid-l990s), uncertain presidential elections in 2002 and outbursts of social
unrest during2003. As a result of these shocks, duringthe 1999-2002 period, external financing to
Bolivia dropped by approximately 65 percent as a share of GDP. Accordingly, and with significant
support from the international community, the current account deficit dropped, but gradually to
prevent high social costs. In2003, Bolivia achieved a current account surplus (Figure 2).
14. The closing of the current account has been associated with a gradual drop in financial sector
credit leadingto production disruptions. During 1998-2003, Bolivia's real GDP grew at 2.4 percent
annually and unemployment grew steadily to reach 8.7 percent in 2002 (Figure 3).                                   In 2002,
domestic private investment amounted US$ 54 million, less than 1 percent of GDP. At the same
time, lower corporate profits resulting mainly from the economic recession, combined with
decreasing bank deposits partly due to non-reversed incipient bank runs, have weakened Bolivia's
banking sector. In early 2004, non-performing loans stood at around 18 percent of total banking
loans (Figure 4).


Figure 2: Current Account Balance and FDI                                  Figure3: GDP Growth, UnemploymentandInflation

   15%                                                                   I     20%




                                                                           *   10%

                                                                               8%

      11990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2wO 2001 2w2/W31      6%

                                                                               4%

                                                                                2%

                                                                               0%




                                                                          5

Figure 4: Deposits, Loan and NPL                                            Figure 5: Public Deficit and Tax Revenues

                                                                                I O %,                     n                                     (20%




                                                                             &    2%                                                              16%   ~


                                                                             2                                                                         n
                                                                                  0%                                                              15%  2
                                                                                -2%                                                               14% P

                                                                                .4%                                                               i 3 %

                                                                                -6%                                                               12%

                                                                                -8%                                                               11%

                                                                               -10% J                                                            110%
  IDepants(LHS)
    Told              ciz5JTotalLoansILHS)  -NPL    (R of roial loans). RHS            1995   1996  1997  1998  1999 2000  ZOO1     2002   2003
                                                                                II fiscalbalance(LHS)
                                                                                      Overall                       0Fiscalbaianceduetopenmonreform(LHS)
                                                                                +-Tax    revenm(RHS)




15. Bolivia also faces a serious fiscal situation that the Government is addressing. In 2003, the
overall budget deficit reached 8 percent of GDP (Figure 5):                                         Bolivia's high budget deficit i s the
result of a rapid growth of expenditures and stagnant fiscal revenue since the late 1990s. Weaker
economic activity, the winding down of privatizations of public enterprises, and poor fiscal policy
decisions (particularly regardinghydrocarbons) have led to stagnant government revenue (Figure 6).
At the same time, public expenditures have been rising, largely driven by a growing wage bill,
increasing pension costs, and an acceleration of capital expenditures (Figure 7). This trend has been
compounded by rising interest payments to service the growing public debt needed to cover the
deficit. Since 1997, public expenditures have increased by more than 5 percent in real terms, while
revenues have increased only 0.8 percent in real terms (both on average and annually). The fast
growth of expenditures has partly been the result of structural reforms (e.g., pension reform) made
under the assumption of the high growth rates in the 1990s. To a certain extent, the fast increase in
expenditures in Boliviawas also the result of political and social pressures.

                    Figm6.TaxRevenues                                                                 Figure7. EqmKilm
                      (constarb&.           of1990)                                                    (constarbBs. of 1990)
    e-- I




        11980 1991 lsiE 1993 1941 1995 1996 1997lsrs 1991  aro am pm m


16. Bolivia's increasing budget deficits have mainly been financed by grants and domestic and
external debt (almost all in dollars), including HIPC financing amounting to 1.6 percent of GDP
since 2001. Bolivia's total combined public sector debt was 68 percent of GDP in 2002, rising to


 Beforegrants, Bolivia's overall budget deficit amounts to about 11percentof GDP.


                                                                           6

about 76 percent in 2003 (Figure 8). Of this total, the external debt amounts to 57 percent of GDP, is
concessional and -until 2002- remained at pre-HIPC levels. Domestic public debt, which i s largely
dollar-denominated and held by pension funds and financial institutions, amounts to around 19
percent?
                                           Figure 8. Bolivia - Public Debt



                               80%                                                           18.8%I

                               70%                                                    17.1%
                                                                                 15.7%

                               60%

                            -: 50%
                            c)
                            ae040%


                               30%
                                                                                       49.9%
                               20%


                               10%


                                0%
                                   1993 1994 1595  1996   1997 1998 1999    zoo0 2031  2w2   m
                                            0 Extemal Debt        Domestic Debt

17. Debt sustainability analysis indicates that, under growth rates of around 3.6 percent (i.e., the
annual average growth rate of Boliviain the last 10years) and a fiscal adjustment consistent with the
program under discussion with the IMF, Bolivia should not have difficulties in servicing its debt?
The scenario that does not include additional gas exports would require, in the medium term, a fiscal
adjustment deeper than that in a scenario with additional gas (that would bring growth to around 4.4
percent in the medium term).            The scenario without gas would involve improved tax revenue
collections and deeperexpenditure cuts. The former may not be difficult to achieve given the current
policy efforts to increase tax revenue and under higher aggregate demand due to an improved
external environment, if it is sustained. With respect to deeper expenditure cuts, it is hardto predict
how difficult it will be in the medium term, given a menu of uncertainties, including presidential
elections. Nevertheless, the total public debt in terms of GDP i s expected to start coming down in
2005 under both the gas and no-gas scenarios.
18. To returnto a sustainablefiscal path, inthe context of an IMFStand-By Arrangement (SBA), the
Government is reducingthe overall budget deficit aiming to reach 6.6 percent in 2004 (compared to
8.0 percent in 2003). This adjustment involves efforts on the revenue as well as on the expenditure
side. On the revenue side, there has been progress in the implementation of a new tax code and the
liberalization of the domestic fuel prices. In addition, the Government has introduced a tax on
financial transactions. The authorities are also seeking to implement a tax on real estate and reach
broad agreement on the revised hydrocarbon law that would involve a higher tax incidence on
producers, yet maintaining an investor friendly environment.                          On the expenditure side, the
Government is following the recommendations of the recently completed Public Expenditure



  Domestic public debt does not include the debt held by the Central Bank with 99 day maturity at virtually
  zero interest rates.
  A debt sustainabilityanalysis was presentedin Bolivia- CAS 2004. Inthis report, only the two sustainable scenariosare
  presented. These are with gas (Annex Table 1 and base-casescenario in the CAS) and without gas (Annex Table 2 and
  Scenario4 inthe CAS).



                                                          7

Review. In parallel, the Government is working towards building the needed social and political
consensus for the medium-term fiscal program. Furthermore, to prevent potential fiscal costs (while
increasing efficiency), Bolivia i s also implementing a program to strengthen the financial and
corporate sectors!
19. Outlook and Remaining Risks. The outlook for Bolivia i s positive, but contingent on a stable
social and political environment. Favorable signals include:

     0    There i s a positive external environment. Exports are booming (36 percent annual growth
          for the January-February 2004 with respect to the same period in 2003) and there are
          indicationsthat the non-export sectors are growing too.

     0    Bolivia has now access to US markets through the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug
          Eradication Act. This should provide incentives for expansion of some sectors, in particular
          the textile sector.

     0    The Government i s addressing remaining vulnerabilities in the context of the current SBA
          with the IMF (See Annex 7). Bolivia has proven resilient to shocks in the past. Bolivia's
          growth performance in recent years has not been impressive, but it has surpassed that of
          other economies from the region that faced similar shocks. The strengthening of the
          financial sector, the largely concessional nature of its public debt, and an adequate use of
          monetary and exchange rate policies have helped Bolivia to cope with the shocks of the late
          1990s.    Inflation has remained single digit since 1999, despite a gradual 20 percent
          depreciation of the currency since 1997, to sustain a competitive multilateral real exchange
          rate inthe face of major devaluations in neighboringcountries.

     0    The Government i s aware of the need to create conditions for pro-poor growth and its
          upcoming PRSPwill emphasis actions targeted to the productive sector.

     0    All these positive factors are contributing to ensure sustained support from the international
          community. The fact that Bolivia i s becoming one of the countries eligible to apply for the
          MillenniumChallenge Account i s an additionalpositive development.
20. Bolivia's Achilles heel is the socio-political situation.           Achieving and maintaining an
environment conducive to sustained high growth rates, given the factors highlighted above, will
require a successful outcome of the legislative agenda including the hydrocarbon law, the gas
referendum and the ConstitutionalAssembly.
21. Insum, Bolivia's social, political and economic situation i s weak and undermines the economy's
ability to stay in a stable footing to generate fast growth and employment. The Government i s
dealing with social and political obstacles and addressing economic vulnerabilities, but there are
risks. These include: (i)    political obstacles to close fiscal imbalances leading to perpetuate "wait-
and-see attitude" from investors, slow growth, and ensuing solvency problems; (ii)     failure to address
banking and corporate sector weaknesses that have high dollar debts leading to scarce credit and
poor reaction from investors; (iii)   deterioration of external factors, and (iv) a bankingcrisis trigger,
for example, by expectations of economic troubles ahead. Efforts are underway to mitigate these
risks. On the economic side, success in completing a program with the IMF should dispel worries
about addressingfiscal imbalances. On the bankingand corporate sector, the Government i s already
working to strengthenthem.




  First Programmatic Bank and Corporate Sector RestructuringProject (2004).


                                                   8

C.       Public Expenditures inthe Social Sectors

22. Bolivia i s facing a serious situation in its public finances, one that threatens economic stability
and the government's capacity to provide quality public services. Despite significant improvements
in some social indicators (e.g.. illiteracy and infant mortality), a series of constraints still prevent
Bolivia from moving faster in its fight against poverty. These include poor quality of education,
weak social protection targeting and unsustainable financing for key social public services.
Furthermore, Bolivia's public investment has beendecentralized, but the transfers that municipalities
receive are volatile and lack a define results-orientation, and hence are not conducive to promote
quality public services. On the institutional front, low technical capacity and weak coordination
between municipal governments and the prefecturus also contribute to poor public services. The
institutional weaknesses of municipalities andprefecturus need to be addressedas soon as possible
to make these levels of government suitable for effectively managing a large share of public
expenditures.
23. Immediate action i s also required to reverse the negative trend of Bolivia's fiscal stance, to
preserve the impressive social sector gains of the 1990s, and to create the conditions needed to
generate new employment and reduce poverty and inequality. Unfortunately, the need to adjust
public finances occurs precisely at a moment when social demands are high and when Bolivia i s
trying to reach the MDGs. This indicates that the adjustment must involve not only lower spending
levels, but also revenue measures and new spending patterns to improve the efficiency and equity of
public service delivery. This will allow the government to continue delivering quality public
services, but within a sustainablefiscal framework.


                    111.    SOCIALSECTORS:REFORMSAND ISSUES

A.       A SocialSectors Programis Needed

24. Bolivia has committed to achieving the social goals set within the MDG framework yet faces
serious challenges to reach them. The national Government has recently highlighted the MDG
agenda as a core part of its work program. Furthermore, the next round of allocation of IDA
resources will take into account progress made in achieving the MDGs. However, Bolivia faces
challenges that demand immediate actions if these goals are to be achieved. These include: (i)        the
existence of poor indicators in various social sectors, in some cases aggravated by recent stagnation
of the improvement trends; (ii)      the persistence of chronic poor-performing municipalities and
important inequalities across different population subgroups (urban and rural, non indigenous and
indigenous, rich and poor) hiding behind the national averages; (iii)    the difficult fiscal, social and
political situation that puts pressure on all sectors and threatens the scope and momentum of the
social programs; and (iv) the slow progress inthe adoption of a results-basedorientation in the social
sectors that reachesthe municipal level.
25. Despite important progress in the social sectors in Bolivia during the last decade, much remains
to be done. Past social sectors reforms led to major achievements in national outcomes for health,
education and water and sanitation. For example, the infant mortality rate dropped from 89 deaths
per 1,000 live births in 1989 to 67 in 1998 and 54 in 2002.7 Primary completion rates (8" grade)
went from 55.4 percent in 1992 to 71.5 percent in 2001. Similarly, national coverage of drinking
water rose from 54 percent in 1992 to 72 percent in 2001. Despite these results, with the notable
exception of primary education, Bolivia still lags behind other countries of the region interms of its

'Seepreliminaryresultsfromthe 2003 DHS.



                                                  9

 human development indicators.         This is even more urgent in some indicators where expected
 progress has not been sustainedinthe last years. For example, by the end of 2003, the percentageof
 deliveries attended by skilled personnel (a key determinant to reduce maternal mortality) was 56, a
 minor increase compared with the 53 percent level observed in 1998. In nutrition, the indicators for
 anemia in pregnant women and child malnutrition have remained almost unchanged between 1998
 and 2003. Inthe case of poverty, the percentageof moderate poverty increasedfrom 63.5 in 1999 to
 64.6 in 2002 (while extreme poverty went from 40.7 to 36.8 for the same period).
 26. The gap between different regions, ethnic groups and socioeconomic classes that hides behind
the national averages i s still large and in some cases widening. For example, while 88 percent of the
richest quintile have access to water services, only 36 percent of the poor have access. Similarly, on
 average, the adult population of the highest income quintile has 6 years of schooling more than
 someone in the lower quintile; and while skilled birth attendance among the poorest quintile i s 23
percent, the highest quintile i s 89 percent. These disparities are seen across all sectors; not only
across socio-economic groups but also between rurahban and indigenoushon indigenous
populations. For example, the probability for a woman to receive skilled care at childbirth i s 17
percent lower if the head of household i s indigenous, and the probability for a person to receive care
when illi s 9 percent lower for indigenous people. Correcting these inequities requires specific
policy actions that are directly linked to the expectedoutcomes and reach the municipal level.
27. Human capital development i s a central element for achieving sustained growth, poverty
reduction and more equity in Bolivia. Inthe absence of a comprehensive medium term social sector
program, there is a riskthat the current economic and fiscal scenario, combined with pressures from
other sectors, will force the social areas out of the public agenda's priorities. The significant
achievements in human development indicators were accompanied by an increase in social
expenditures from 15.7 percent of GDP in 1998 to 19.6 percent in 2002. However, this level of
effort may not be sustainedin the near future due to the pro-poor growth, productive sector focus the
ongoing National Dialogue. Under these circumstances, it i s of critical importance that the social
sectors remain on the national agenda, with a reinforcedcommitment to equity and efficiency.
28. Lastly, the social sectors need to adopt a results-basedorientation that would help them improve
performance. Bolivia has a recent history of important, yet incipient, efforts in this direction (see
Annex 4). Such efforts for setting and tracking performance targets began during the definition of
the first Poverty Reduction Strategy and the first National Dialogue, and were reinforced by the
growing emphasis on results placed by the internationalcommunity. Important developments in the
nationalinformation systems have positively contributedto this initiative. Inaddition, various sector
specific initiatives (e.g., in health and education) have further extended progress made. Currently, a
joint initiative by the Government, PROCOSI (the major NGO network in health in the country) and
the Bank complements this by developing systemic dynamics models that link policy actions with
results in specific areas (for example, in malaria control, reduction of infant and maternal mortality,
and improvement of the effectiveness of resource allocation in primary education). However, these
efforts must be deepened, institutionalized and expanded if expected to contribute to enhance the
effectiveness and efficiency of the social expenditures in a sustainable way. In particular, they will
need to be linked to the definition of operational plans, the budgetary allocations, the design of
externally-financed programs both at the national and sub national levels, and the implementation of
efforts to increase accountability and transparency.




                                                  10

B.       The Government's Social Sectors Program: Issues, Strategy, Expected
         Outcomes and Prior Actions

29. The Government's Social Sectors Program (see Letter of Policy Development inAnnex l),be                  to
supported by this SSPSAC series, would ensure that progress in the areas of health and nutrition,
education, water and sanitation and social protection is maintained and that remaining disparities in
outcomes across different regions, ethnic groups and income classes are reduced. This would be
done through the implementation of specific actions in each of these areas, including measures to
increase a results-based orientation, promote accountability and strengthen participatory monitoring
of MDGs.
30. This program would better position the country to achieve several of the MDGs. Annex 2
presents a synthesis of the prior actions anticipated for the first Credit in this series and their relation
with selected MDGs. Included are key policies and actions in the social sectors that would: (a)
strengthen selected interventions that are closely linked to the desired social outcomes, (b) introduce
gradually outcome-based incentives at the municipal level for prioritized targets; (c) secure financial
sustainability of core social programs, and (d) focus efforts on municipalities and/or vulnerable
groups that have persisted as outliers in terms of social outcomes.                      These policies will be
complemented by a set of multisectorial actions aimed at strengthening participatory monitoring of
MDGsandaccountability inthe social sectors.
31. Followingi s a description of the scope of each one of these areas under the Government's Social
Sectors Program, including a brief description of the main issues, the Government's strategy, the
expectedresults andthe prior actions (to be supportedby this first SSPSAC).


1. HealthandNutrition
32. MainIssues. Measured against what would be expected from its level of income and education,
Bolivia has a history of unsatisfactory health outcomes. In 1994, infant mortality was 75 per 1,000
live births and the maternal mortality 390 per 100,000 live births, among the highest in the region.
Malnutrition levels were equally high: in 1998, more than one quarter of all children under 5 years of
age suffered from stunting, while two-thirds of those under 3 had anemia. Inthe case of malaria, 75
percent of the territory is endemic, leaving over 40 percent of the population at risk. The incidence
of tuberculosis (TB) - 105 per 100,000 inhabitants in2001 -i s more than twice the average for Latin
America. Chagas disease i s endemic in 60 percent of the territory and causes 13 percent of all adult
deaths.
33. Those figures are staggering in comparison to other Latin American countries.                       However,
Bolivia has made significant progress in improving the health status of its population, particularly
during the last ten years!      The implementation of a series of health policies directed at reducing
maternal and infant mortality, controlling communicable diseases, and creating incentives at the
local level to improve health outcomes has had a positive effect on the welfare of the Bolivian
population. These policies include: (i)        the partial introduction of performance agreements that set
yearly regional targets for priority indicators; (ii)      the implementation of a financing mechanism for
maternal and child health interventions, together with a significant increase in funding for health
interventions; (iii) the strengthening of vertically financed public health programs (malaria, TB and
Chagas); (iv) an increase in the health sector's workforce in the context of the H P C debt-relief



* For a comprehensive description of health and nutrition outcomes and their evolution, see World Bank, 2003, Health
  Sector Reform inBolivia: A Decentralization Case Study.


                                                       11

initiative; and (v) initiatives promoting indigenous empowerment and an intercultural approach to
health care.
34. These interventions have contributed to increased access to priority maternal and child
interventions. Coverage of skilled birth attendance more than doubled, from 25 percent in 1994 to
54 percent in 2002, and coverage of pneumonias in children under 5 rose from 25 to 100percent in
the same period. Immunizations of children under 1year with the third dose of the DPT vaccine,
which had dropped to as low as 71 percent in 1996 (in administrative records), recovered with the
reforms and exceeded 95 percent in 2001. Preliminary data from the 2003 DHS suggest that there
has been a drop in infantmortality to 54 deaths per 1,000 live births. Similarly, the strengthening of
vertical programs was successfulincontrolling communicable diseases and reducing their incidence.
For example, the malaria Annual Parasitic Index (MI)dropped substantially, from its peak of 24.8
per 1,000 inhabitants livinginendemic areas in 1998 tojust 1.6 in2002.
35. In spite of this progress, the recent economic crisis and a relative slowdown in the pace of
implementation of reforms and programs threaten further health improvements in view of achieving
the MDGs. Four major concerns remain: (i)          in recent years, the rate of increase in coverage of
priority maternal and child interventions has been tapering off; (ii)  there i s a gap in access to health
services between different socio-economic groups and between indigenous and non indigenous
populations; (iii) malnutrition levels are among the worst in the region and there i s no concerted
effort in place to tackle this issue; and (iv) the incidence of TB, chagas, and malaria are still high in
some municipalities, with irregular financing and sub-optimal coordination of national programs
threatening the sustainability of achievements reached thus far, including immunization coverage
rates.
36. Government Strategy. To tackle these issues and reach the health and nutrition MDGs, the
Government will undertake specific actions in five areas. Interventions will be targeted towards
priority municipalities -those with the highest risk in terms of health status and poverty- in an effort
to reduce social exclusionand improve outcomes. The selectedareas of intervention include:
37. Expanding coverage of primary health care to underserved areas to reduce the equity gap,
recognizing Bolivia's cultural diversity. One of the main instruments of the Government for
increasing the coverage of priority maternal and child health services, and primary health care
services in general, has been a targeted public subsidy for health services (SUMI). SUMI, launched
in January 2003, expanded an existing program providing a free basic health care package to poor
mothers and children to include higher complexity care.           To finance SUMI, the Government
increased earmarked resourcesat the municipal level (to gradually reach 10percent of the central tax
transfers to municipalities) and created a National Redistribution Fund (FSN) financed gradually
with up to 10 percent of the Special National Dialogue Account of the HIPC debt-relief initiative.
However, SUMI's current design presents various challenges for equity and efficiency, including: (i)
health promotion and prevention activities are insufficiently financed; (ii) pathologies are
                                                                                  simple
attended in secondary and tertiary care hospitals that have no incentives for cost-control; and (iii)
there i s an increasing risk of low access to the new benefits and resources by the rural poor, as the
urban settings with higher complexity facilities receive most spending.
38. To address these challenges, the Government will reform some of the rules and procedures of
SUMI, so as to reinforce health promotion and prevention activities (including counseling in sexual
and reproductive health, and in nutrition), and to enhance demand and access by population living in
poor rural areas. A thorough impact evaluation of SUMI i s currently under way, to detect if the
financing of a comprehensive package instead of the original basic one has resulted in better
coverage of the poor and rural areas. The results of this evaluation will feed into the redesign of
SUMI. Inthe meantime, the Government has committed to explore the cost effectiveness and legal
implications to extend the benefit package of SUMI in three directions: first, incorporating nutrition



                                                  12

activities; second, information and education in health; and third, transport of patients in risk to
higher complexity health institutions. With these changes, the Government i s trying to improve
targeting to poor and rural (primarily indigenous) areas that have less access to tertiary care facilities.
In addition, the Government is taking steps to recognize more explicitly the country's cultural
diversity by learning more about traditional health practices preferred by indigenous people and
introducing coordination mechanisms between those practices and the mainstream health care
services.
39. Implementing policies and interventions targeted at reducing malnutrition and anemia in
children under 3 and pregnant women. Malnutrition levels among the poor rural and indigenous
population have not improved in the last 10 years. The key reasons for the lack of progress are the
lack of vision and leadership in this area, inadequate targeting, investment in interventions of low-
effectiveness, low awareness of the irreversible effects of early chronic malnutrition on the physical,
intellectual and health status of an individual and on child mortality, and the lack of monitoring and
evaluation of program effectiveness? As a response, the Government has committed to develop a
multisectoral national nutrition policy, including a specific package of targeted cost-effective
interventions to be implemented inhigh-riskmunicipalities.
40. Reducing the incidence and morbidity from immuno-preventable diseases, malaria, Chagas and
TB. The main problem threatening progress in this area is financial sustainability: in spite of
ongoing efforts, the budget for these priority interventions i s not assured and suffers recurrent crises
that impact negatively the availability of core inputs. In 2003, for example, the malaria control
program had insufficient funds and control activities have suffered. As a result, the API shot up
again to above 5 after its 2002 low of 1.6. The IDA-financed Social Safety Net SAC (Credit No.
3787-BO) confronted this issue in the short-term by establishing a protected budget for these priority
interventions during 2003. The Government i s committed to ensuring sufficient financing of these
programs to achieve set results in line with the MDGoutcomes inthe middle-term.
41. Immunizations play a key role in reducing child mortality. Despite recent attempts to increase
the share of internal financing of vaccines, most of the Expanded Program of Immunizations (PAT)
budget inBolivia is still covered by external sources. However, under such arrangements, assuring a
regular financing of vaccines has been a recurrent challenge. Unpredictability in the timing and
amounts of financing led in 2003 to eroded reserve stocks and failure to meet national and municipal
coverage targets. Recognizingthis, the Government is committed to defining a sustainable and more
regularized financing policy for the PAI. This would be reflected in the definition of internal
financing sources for vaccines, assuring a minimum financing that then could be complemented
through external sources.
42. Improving the finctioning of the health service network at the municipal level and providing
incentives to achieving the MDGs. Since 1999, the health sector has experience with the
introduction of results-basedmanagementthrough the use of performance agreementsthat set annual
targets in priority health indicators at the national, regional and local levels. The Government has
accomplished this through the signingof performance agreements between the central level and the
SEDES, the nine regional health secretariats.            In 2003, the Government introduced a new
management model consisting of Local Health Boards (DILOS) and autonomously managed health
networks, in an attempt to decentralize health care further. Each municipality has its own DILOS
with broad representationin its board." This board i s responsible for strategic decision-making over
the outputs expectedfrom the corresponding health network, as well as for the approval of an annual


 Accordingto the World Bank anddonors funded "Poverty andNutrition inBolivia" 2002 study.

loDILOS board members include one representativeof the MOH (designatedthrough its regional arm, the SEDES), one
  from the municipalgovemment, andone from civil society.



                                                     13

action plan.       This new framework brings together the different stakeholders for the shared
management of health services and has the potential to improve accountability and effectiveness of
health service delivery at the local level. However, there is anecdotal evidence suggesting that the
DILOS management system does not work in practice and that performance agreements have not
been signed at that level. Thus, while maintainingthe performance agreements signed with all nine
SEDES, the MOH will promote the participatory elaboration and use of performance agreements
between the DILOS and the SEDES. These local commitments will eventually be reflected in the
municipal Annual Operative Plans (POAs). The MOH and the SEDES will focus their efforts in
those municipalities that have been prioritized because of their greater health risks."            At the same
time that performance agreements are signed, monitored, and improved, the national Government
will implement an incentive scheme for municipalities to implement MDG-related activities (see
section IILB.4).
43. The MOH will support this effort with parallel actions addressing the human resources. The
M O H will develop a policy for the sector that will ensure better distribution of human resources
(currently concentrated in urban areas) and create incentives for their permanence in rural areas and
improved performance. Developing a human resources policy will proceed in stages: first, the
Government will implement a census of health personnel at the national level, and develop a
methodology for a continuous update of the personnel database; second, it has to establish objective
criteria to measure the needs in different areas, and calculate the gap with respect to current supply
of health personnel. Finally, the policy will have to set upthe right incentives to bridge this gap.
44. Expected Outcomes. The above actions are expected to lead in the medium term to increased
coverage of priority maternal and child interventions, especially in high-risk municipalities, and
further inclusion of indigenous populations in health care interventions. Second, improved targeting
of resources and SUMI services complemented by better distribution of human resources should
result in efficiency improvements of the health system and a prioritization of interventions that are
more cost-effective inreducingchild and maternal mortality. These actions are expected to decrease
the equity gap in access to health services between the poor andthe rich andthe indigenous and non-
indigenous people, resultingin a reduction in infant and maternal mortality and improvements in the
nutritional status of children in poor areas. Finally, protected financing for immunizations and
selected actions directed at preventing communicable diseases are expected to lead to increased
immunization coverage and reduced incidence and morbidity from malaria, TB and Chagas. Table 3
insection 1II.C on monitoringandevaluation summarizesthe targets ineightkey healthandnutrition
indicators related to the MDGs that are expectedto be reachedthrough this program.


Prior Health Actions for SSPSAC-I
(a) Strengthening results-oriented health management at the municipal level: The Government has
    established a set of criteria to prioritize municipalities and has agreed on a performance agreement
    template to be signed with DILOS in the priority municipalities, with indicators and targets related to the
    MDGs, including, for example: (i)institutional births and (ii)sexual and reproductive health
    consultations for women. A methodology to evaluate such agreements has been presented.
(b) Expanding coverage of primary health care further into rural and underserved areas:
    P     The Government has finalized the feasibility study to incorporate the following benefits in the
           SUMI: (i)information, education, and communication; (ii)transport of high risk patients to
          reference centers; and (iii)
                                     nutrition interventions.



  UNDP, PAHO and the MOH have already advanced in different methodologies to identify at risk municipalitiesbased
  onhealthoutcomes, poverty (and governance, inthe case of UNDP). These methodologies will be harmonizedto select a
  subset of low performers.



                                                     14

    >    The Government has taken concrete actions to support interculturality in health, including (i)
         measures to articulate traditional medicine with current health care practices; (ii) of health
                                                                                               design
         services satisfaction surveys for indigenous people; and (iii)publication and dissemination of the
         Pregnant Women's Rights Charter in various indigenous languages.
(e) Establishing a human resources policy for the health sector that improves urbanhral distribution
    and strengthens primary health care: The MOH has established an office in charge of the design of a
    human resources policy for the sector. This office has started to define such policy, as reflected in: (i)
    beginning the implementation of a census at the national level; (ii)  approving o f the software to be used
    for permanent updating of human resource information; and (iii)approving the updating of the health
    care model and the profile required on health personnel, including the profiles for traditional medicine.
(d) Reducing malnutrition in children under 3 and anemia in pregnant women: the Government has
    identified at least 25 municipalities in a situation of nutritional risk for children aged 3 or less and
    pregnant women.
(e) Reducing the incidence of communicable diseases and increasing coverage of immunizations: The
    Government has issued a supreme decree which regulates Law 2042 and provides that 5 percent of the
    resources from the social security administration budget i s allocated to fund diseaseprevention activities,
    particularly for PAI.


2. Education
45. Main Issues. Inthe early 90s, poor educational results ledto a consensus that action was needed
to promote a comprehensive reform of Bolivia's education system. Net primary enrollment rates
were at 74 percent and gross secondary enrollment rates at a mere 43 percent. Inruralareas, only 43
percent of children enrolled in primary school and only 11percent continued beyond the fifth grade.
The end result was that one out of every five Bolivians did not know how to read. In the case of
rural women, the figure was one out of every two. Likewise, illiteracy rates among the indigenous
population were above 25 percent.
46. These poor indicators revealed a system plagued with gross inefficiencies and problems of
access, equity and quality. After three years of discussions and diagnostic work, the Government
launched the Educational Reform Program (ERP) in 1994 with the aim of transforming and
strengthening the educational system, improving the pedagogical quality on primary education, and
developing human resources in the sector. The ERP focused on the following areas of primary
education:

    0    Curriculum, through the design and implementation of a new curriculum at the primary
        level, which includes intercultural elements in learning modules and classroom practice;

    0   Bilingual education, through teaching materials and teacher training in Quechua, Aymara,
        and Guaraniinmathematics, language and social sciences;

    0   Information systems and evaluation, through the creation of a reliable information system
        (SIE) and a standardizedevaluation system (SIMECAL);

    0   Decentralization and community participation, through the incorporation of a grassroots
        participatory planning mechanism into education policy and the creation of various councils
        for popular participationand social control inlocal policy definition;

    0    The teaching profession, with the introduction of various pay incentives and reform of in-
        service, as well as initial teacher training, including contracting management of teacher
        training schools to public and private universities; and

    0   Infrastructure and educational inputs, by increasingresources to improve the quality of the
        learningprocess at the classroom level.



                                                    15

47. The implementation of the ERPbrought about meaningful changes in many important education
indicators which track Bolivia's progress towards the MDGs.12 Primary schooling has been almost
universalized and net primary enrolment rates were at 97 percent in 2000 (up 23 percentage points),
with no gender differences between 5 and 11years of age and a small and shrinkinggap between 12
and 15. Universal access is, of course, the first prerequisite to achieving primary education for all.
Likewise, the percentageof students completing 8" grade in rural areas has increased from 8 percent
in 1997to 29 percent in 2000. For urban students, the change innet completion was from 29 to 64
percent during the same period. International studies have found that Bolivia performs in Spanish
and in mathematics at the median for the region, in spite of being much poorer than most of its
neighbors. In addition, the managerial and administrative capabilities of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) were enhanced during this period. Lastly, regarding financing of the system, Bolivia also
made a significant effort: the education budget expanded from US$ 78 million in 1990 to US$ 192
million in 1999. Public expenditure in education as a percentage of GDP increased from 3.6 percent
inthe 90's to 6.7 percentin2001.
48. Despite allthese achievements, numerous problems still plague the education system, including:

    0    Universal enrollment has not led to universal primary completion and only 71 percent of
         children entering the school system graduate from primary scho01.'~This shows that to fully
         achieve universal primary completion, additional improvements in access and internal
         efficiency must be made;

    0    Educational spending is high and climbing. During a period of high deficits and tight
         budgets, rationalizationof education expenditures i s an urgent priority; and

    0    Secondary education remains neglected. Its curriculum i s outdated and its problems were
         largely ignoredinthe primary-focused reform.
49. Inthe last few years, the economic crisis and political instability have had negative impacts on
the education sector. The previous administration had two Ministers of Education in one year of
government. When civil unrest led to the replacement of the national government in October,
Bolivia saw its thirdMinister of Education inlittle over one year. This lack of continuity has led to a
state of near paralysis in the sector duringthe last two years. Operational capacity has fallen from a
peak duringthe reform years and there has been much internal turmoil as the MOE seeks a transition
from the ERPto a new educational policy.
50. A new education policy i s now needed that answers the remaining challenges in the framework
of the country's current context. The country for which the ERP was designed in many ways no
longer exists. The reforms itemized above were necessary for the Bolivia of the early and mid
nineties, but the successes of the reform have themselves created new challenges which require new
set of measures.
51. Government Strategy.           Consistent with the diagnosis that systemic action i s necessary for
improvements in educational efficiency and quality, the new government i s makingthe participatory
elaboration of a new educational strategy the cornerstone of its educational efforts. However, due to
the inherent risks in the current environment of Bolivia today and the urgency of some of the



  Another aspect of the ERP that must be emphasizedis donor coordination. The ERP has been strongly supported by
 multiple entities. The World Bank has providedsupport throughtwo projectstotaling US$ 115 million; the IDBhas also
 investedUS$80 million. Other importantdonors includethe Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Spain, Japan, UNICEF and
 USAID.

l3These are gross completionrates, which refer to the number of studentscompletingeighth grade at any age, divided by
 the numberof childreninthe appropriate age group. This number may be superiorto 100.



                                                       16

educational problems, the administration i s also taking a series of immediate actions parallel to the
consultation process.
52. Developmentof a Bolivian educationalstrategy with communityparticipation:

    0   The first step was the establishmentof the NationalEducationCouncil (ConsejoNacional de
        Educacidn, CONED) which consists of roughly eighty members representing different
        government branches, civil society, unions, and other groups. Under the Education Reform
        Law, the CONED is the highest instance of a system of local and provincial bodies to
        provide channels for community participation in educational policy decisions. The CONED
        will debate the MOE's Education Strategy proposal, as well as any alternative proposals, as
        part of the participatory process whose result will be a broadly consulted strategy. The
        council will also have a 12 member directorate, composed of government and civil society
        representatives, which will meet more regularly and establish a dialogue with the MOE on
        education policy. This council, not implemented before, will have an important say in
        almost all aspects of educational policy from now on. Although it is too early to evaluate its
        actions, there are indications that its composition and diversity may hinder its intended
        functions.

    0   The second step i s to convene the Second National Education Congress (ZZ Congreso
        Nacional de Educacidn, I1CNE). As in the case of CONED, the Education Reform Law
        requires that a National Education Congress be convened every five years. The first CNE
        was held in 1992 and the second had been postponed until now due to recurring political
        difficulties. The Government has made the presentation and debate of its strategy in this
        Congress a clear priority.

    0   In addition, a systemic action plan, the Multi-annual Operational Plan (Plan Operativo
        Multianual, POMA), which will be the base of the strategy proposal to be debated by the
        CONED and the Congress, is being prepared. Once the proposal i s debated by CONED and
        CNE, it will become Bolivia's new educational strategy. If it i s not debated, its legitimacy
        will remain under question, but at least there i s now an underlying logic to actions in
        education that can guide future investments as well as responsesto crisis situations.
53. The steps above constitute bold actions with the potential to involve a broad spectrum of
government and civil society actors in the education policy debate. A strategy which i s debated and
approved, or even just debated, by the two bodies mentioned above will have much more political
legitimacy than any other at this time. Given the institutional and political fragility of the MOE and
the country, this political legitimacy is of fundamental importance in opening the way to new
educational actions to deal with key issues of improving coverage, completion, and quality, while at
the same time reducingglaringinequalities ineducational attainment and achievement.
54. In order to mitigate the risks of hanging everything upon the potentially tumultuous participatory
process described above, the MOE has included other more specific actions in its policy reform
agenda which do not depend on a multitude of political actors and address glaring problems in the
education sector closely linked to the MDGagenda.

        0    The first of these i s a series of actions focused on low-performing municipalities. As has
             been stated above, Bolivia has achieved an impressive 96 percent net enrollment rate but
             still has a long way to go in primary completion rates, which are still at 71.5 percent
             (2001). This means that to achieve the MDG in education, the most important actions
             must focus on reducing high drop-out and repetition rates that keep students from
             completing school. To address these issues, the MOE will undertake specific actions to
             improve educational efficiency inthese laggingmunicipalities.




                                                    17

             The second of these i s to address secondary education in a country that has achieved
             much on primary education. Secondary education has long been neglected and suffers
             from an outdatedcumculum created in the 1930s and last revised over twenty years ago.
             Curricular revision takes years to have an impact inthe classroom since it only becomes
             effective once it is translated into new pedagogical materials and teacher training. This
             i s illustrated by the primary level curricular revision, which, despite having begun
             almost ten years ago with the launch of the ERP, is still incomplete for grades four
             through six and only reaches classrooms in grades seven and eight. This time lag makes
             the kick-off of the secondary curricular revision an even more urgent priority,
             independent of what may come out of the Education Congressor the CONED


55. Lastly, the MOE has taken steps to harmonize and coordinate relations with donors in education.
Ithas been agreedthat support inthe education sector will take place within the framework provided
by the approved and consulted Educational Strategy (and, in the meantime, by the POMA). Efforts
will be undertaken towards harmonization as a long-term objective, with the commitment, led by the
MOE itself, to work towards a sector wide approachineducation.
56. Expected Outcomes. The most important result of this proposed program will be a revised and
validated Bolivian Educational Strategy 2004-2015 (EEB), which -it i s hoped- will play the same
role over the next ten years as the Education Reform Law played in the last decade. If a relative
consensus can be found on which to base new educational reform actions, a path to new
improvements in educational results will be possible. Even if the strategy i s not explicitly endorsed
or approved by the CONED and the I1CNE due to the ideologically-charged climate or political
posturing, it i s hoped that the debates will create a set of policy guidelines on the consensus
educational priorities. These guidelines will provide orientation to MOE planners over the next few
years and allow for the establishment of a BolivianEducationalStrategy.
57. In addition, improvements in educational results are expected in the areas of primary completion
rates and secondary enrollment rates (see targets set in Table 3 in section 1II.C on monitoring and
evaluation). Primary completion rates should be measuredboth at sixth and eighth grade.
58. It should be stressed that the present situation inMOE i s far from ideal. As said above, the MOE
suffers from poor operational capability and limitedcapacity to promote new education policies, and
finds itself besiegedon one side by the financial crisis which imposes caps on expenditures, and on
the other by social demands for more spending, including salary increases, all while facing large and
mounting educational challenges. The proposed POMA, while not perfect, i s the best that can be
realistically accomplished within these constraints. The main positive factors that must be stressed
are: (i)the strong government ownership of the actions below, (ii) realism and highprobability
                                                                     their
of being implemented, and (iii)     the fact that they are part of a wider education strategy, however
incipient.


Prior EducationActions for SSPSAC-I:
(a)Developmentof the BolivianEducational Strategy withpopular participation:
9 TheNationalEducationCouncil(CONED) hasbeencreated.
'P The MOE has prepared a new educational council regulatory framework to establish how educatio
      councils should operate.
9 The SecondNationalEducationCongress (I1CNE)hasbeenconvened.
9 The MOE has prepared the Multi-annual Operation Plan (POMA) 2004-2008 for the sectoi
      incorporating the MDGS into its objectives.




                                                   18

(b)Immediate actions to improve secondary education and increase completionrates:
P The MOE will have elaborated and approved terms of reference for studies for transforming the
       secondary education, including curricular transformation.
> The MOE will have defined interventions to increase completion rates among boys and girls in the
     school system.


3. Waterand Sanitation
59. Main Issues. With the urban share of Bolivia's population doubling since the late 1970s,
providing adequate water and sanitation services in the country has become a major challenge.
Nationally, the urban population connected to potable water went from 26 percent in the 1970s to
about 72 percent by 2002, and sewerage coverage grew from 30 to 41 percent during the same
period. In spite of the progress achieved, Bolivia still lags behind most Latin America countries in
terms of water and sewerage coverage rates. About 2.3 million of Bolivia's 8.5 million inhabitants
do not have adequate access to potable water andclose to 5 million inhabitants do not have access to
adequate sanitation services.
60. Access to water and sanitation contributes to alleviate poverty and improve health. However, in
most communities, the wealthiest are the first to obtain access to water and sanitation services while
the poor remain unconnected. This is also the case in Bolivia, where coverage rates in the richest
quintile more than double those of the poorest quintile. By beingunconnected, the poor are forced to
spend a significant portion of their income to access water -up to 16 percent, which contributes to
maintaining them in poverty.I4 In addition, the poor receive insufficient quantities of mostly
contaminated water, which has a negative impact on their health, in particular inchild morbidity and
mortality.
61. There are significant disparities inthe regionaldistribution of water and sanitation coverage rates
in Bolivia. Beni, Pando, Oruro and Potosi clearly lag behind other better off departments. Among
the major cities, the state of service provision also varies considerably and follows different
arrangements for private participation with varying degrees of success. Overall, most intermediate
and small cities in the country suffer from low coverage and unreliable services, resulting from poor
institutional performance. The situation i s even worse in many rural areas. Sanitation coverage i s
low even in major cities, and becomes much worse in small cities and rural areas. If factors of
continuity of service and quality of water supplied are taken into account, the resulting effective
coveragerates are even lower.
62. Factors that impede an increase in access to water and sanitation and improvements in service
provision inBolivia include:

     0   Poor pe$ormance of utilities (service providers). Poor utility performance i s reflected in
         numerous ways, including low quality of the service provided, low administrative, technical,
         financial and commercial managementcapacity, inadequate commercial systems, low billing
         and collection rates, and inadequate maintenance. These factors contribute to shortening the
         life cycle of assets and force the government to frequently subsidize investment costs.


l4A poor family not connectedto the public water networkusually has to buy water from vendors which charge a price 10
 to 50 times higher than the price of water provided by the public utility. In Cochabamba, for example, where over 40
 percentof the populationis not connectedto the public water supplynetwork, the price of water purchasedfrom vendors
 i s about US$ 5/m3. Water consumptionby poor families i s in the range of 15-20 liters/day/person, already much lower
 than the reasonable required minimum. A family of 5 would consume a total of about 75 litedday, which in
 Cochabamba would represent a monthlycost of about US$ 11.25. Given that the monthly income of the lowest quintile
 family in metropolitanareas in Boliviais roughly US$70, this means that approximately 16 percent of incomeof such a
 family is spent on water.



                                                      19

        Weak institutional capacity and inadequate policies at the central govemment level.
        Deficiencies in the structure of central government institutions, legal framework and
        financing policy and procedures, as well as lack of technical assistance to support utilities
        reform and improve performance, impede the execution of sector investments and
        improvements in utilities and sector performance. Financing for public investment in water
        and sanitation, channeled through either the FNDR (when credits are involved) or the FPS
        (which manages grants) is of particular concern. In the case of the FNDR, current loan
        arrangements create a mismatch between revenue collection and debt payments, since the
        municipalities are liable for the debt while the water utilities are in charge of running the
        operation with little incentive to promote full cost recovery".             Inaddition, municipalities
        that are not creditworthy cannot secure financing for their water utilities, even if the utilities
        are creditworthy. In the case of the FPS, current financial arrangements do not favor
        investing in the sector. Obstacles include: (a) delays in the annual budget allocation, which
        result in municipalitieswith available counterpart HIPC funds having to delay their projects;
        (b) specific water and sanitation grants to small municipalities (less than 10,000 inhabitants)
        are discounted from the caps assigned by the National Compensation Policy (PNC),
        discouraging mayors from investing inthe sector; (c) prohibition of channeling public funds
        to cooperatives and to utilities managed by private operators; and (d) lack of appropriate
        institutional capacity and mechanisms for supporting those utilities which are ready to
        reform.

    0   High investment needs and insuficient financing to comply with the Govemment's goals.
        According to Government estimates, the water and sanitation sector investments required to
        reach the MDGgoals by the year 2015 are large (initialestimates were between US$ 1.5 and
        2.2 billion).     Although for the next few years the Government has secured significant
        financing for the sector (mostly grants from bilateral donors and soft credits from
        multilaterals), it i s still below the level neededto ensure the achievement of the goals.

    0   Other issues. Lastly, special circumstances in two of the largest cities inBolivia, Santa Cruz
        and Cochabamba, need to be considered separately given the importance of these cities and
        the large number of people affected.
              o In Santa Cruz, due to lack of access to investment financing, coverage of the
                  sewerage network i s low (30 percent for the entire municipal area). As a result,
                  untreated sewage contaminates the shallow aquifer which i s widely used by the poor
                  not connected to the water supply network and by industry. This causes an
                  environmental hazard and constitutes a significant public health risk. In addition,
                  contamination from the shallow aquifer i s percolating to the deeper aquifer which
                  serves as the sole water supply source of the city. Ifno action i s taken, within a few
                  years this will become an inappropriate municipal water source and finding an
                  alternative water supply source for the city's over 1 million inhabitants would
                  require major investments.
             o Inthe case of Cochabamba, the major concerns are a severe water shortage and the
                  institutional and performance problems of the water utility.                 These are highly
                  sensitive political and social issues that still need to be resolved.
63. Government Strategy. The Government has prepared the "Plan Bolivia, Sector Agua y
Saneamiento" which outlines the strategy and policies for the sector. According to Plan Bolivia, at


l5
 This burdensomearrangementfor municipalitiesleadsto problems servicingthe loan, as reflectedinthe FNDRbalances:
 although water and sanitation investments only account for 41 percent of financing channeled to municipalities, they
 account for 61 percentof FNDR's overdue portfolio.



                                                    20

the central government level, rules, regulations and procedures will be modified through the
enactment of a series of new decrees aimed at resolving the problems identified above. A new Law
of Channeling of External Financing (No. 2649 of April 2004) has been enacted to eliminate
restrictions on direct channeling of public resources for investments in regulated utilities, including
cooperatives and utilities managedby private operators. Inaddition, the Government i s planning to
enact two supreme decrees?

     0   (a) The Water Sector Financial Policy Supreme Decree, which sets out the mechanism of
         assigning credits and grants in the sector. This policy replaces previous procedures based
         only on poverty considerations and introduces more elaborated sector-specific indicators for
         assigning resources.          The new policy would also provide mechanisms for financial
         strengthening of eligible water utilities, including debt relief. Further details on the reasons
         for establishing a new financial policy for the sector and its concepts and design are
         presentedinAnnex 5.

     0   (b) A Technical Assistance Supreme Decree, which provides for the establishment of
         FUNDASAB (FundacidndeApoyo a la Sostenibilidad en Saneamiento Ba`sico),a technical
         assistance entity which will develop new institutional models for utility management and
         corporatization of municipal public utilities that do not wish to involve the private sector.
         FUNDASAB will also provide technical assistance in the process of reforming public
         utilities and in improving the performance of reformedutilities.
64. Under the proposed new water sector financial and technical assistance policies, the role of the
FNDR and the FPS in the water sector will change. The responsibilities of assigning sector
resources and providing technical assistance will be transferred to the Vice-ministry of Basic
Services and to FUNDASAB, respectively, while the FNDR and the FPS will act as fiduciary agents
for the management and transfer of sector funds. These measures have all been discussed with and
are supported by the donor community.
65. In addition to implementing the reforms outlined in Plan Bolivia, improvement of sector
performance and achievement of the MDG targets depend strongly on availability of investment
financing. According to Government estimates, attaining the MDG targets would entail achieving
average water and sanitation coverage rates of about 86 and 73 percent, respectively, by the year
2015. Recent estimates of the investment required to achieve these targets amount to US$ 1.7
billion, of which about US$ 0.5 billion refer to investments in water and US$ 1.2 billion to
investments in sanitation. Considering the level of poverty in Bolivia and the low capacity for
payment of water and sanitation tariffs, the success of Plan Bolivia and of achieving the MDGs will
dependto a large extent onexternal grants and credits.
66. Sustaining a solid regulatory framework for the water and sanitation sector will be
determinant of the success of the above strategy. Aware of this, the Government i s committed
to maintaining the sector's regulatory framework.                       However, ongoing austerity policies
implemented to respond to the budget constraint are affecting all public sector entities, including
the sector's superintendency.               Acknowledging this scenario, the Government will explore
additional policies and actions to strengthenthe oversight capacity inthe sector.
67. Expected Outcomes. By the end of this program (late 2006), the Government expects to have
completed the institutional reforms described above and, in terms of water supply coverage, achieve
36 percent of the MDG. In terms of physical goals, the expected achievements are based on
investment financing, which has already been secured. The combination of the proposed reforms and


l6These two supreme decrees are closely related to the recently enacted Law 2649 for the water and sanitation sector. This
  dependency strengthens the stability o f the decrees.



                                                         21

the execution of the investments for which financing has been secured (US$ 80 million in 2004 and
 US$ 83 million in 2005) are expected to yield increases in water and sanitation coverage in urban
 and rural areas (see Table 3 in Section 1II.C for specific targets), as well as the provision of
 wastewater treatment services to 2.2 million inhabitants of urban areas. Moreover, the new financial
policy and the institutional modernization program proposed are expected to be applied in several
water utilities, obtaining the required support from FUNDASAB. It i s also expected that at least 80
percent of the municipalities in which works will be executed will be municipalities of poverty
categories 111, IV or V (according to the categorization of the 2001 National Dialogue Law), which
are considered the poorest municipalities.            Finally, it i s expected that a pilot program for
incorporating private operators in the provision of services in small municipalities will be
implemented.       This pilot program, although not part of the SSPSAC supported program, is an
important complement to the overall sector reforms.



>    Approved a law which eliminates restrictions for channeling public investment resources directly to all
     service providing utilities, including to cooperatives and to utilities managed by private operators;
>    Enacted a supreme decree which establishes the new sector financial policy and utility modernization
     program, including the mechanism for allocatingcredit and grant resources to service providers;
     Enacted a supreme decree which creates FUNDASAB as an entity which will support the institutional
     reforms and development of the service providers and will provide technical assistance to the sector
     utilities, in accordance with the new sector financial policy; and
>    Developed a regulatory proposal to improve governance and management autonomy o f public service
     providers.


4. Social Protection
68. Main Issues. Bolivia i s one of the poorest countries in Latin America. After about a decade of
improving living conditions, poverty and inequality have grown again since 1999. In 2002, the
poverty incidence reached 65 percent, with more than one third of the population living in extreme
poverty."     Unemployment rose from 4.4 to 9.4 percent between 1997 and 2002, and informal
employment reached 54 percent in 2001 (up from 43 percent in 1999). The greatest vulnerabilities
for the populationare related to education (mainly in the rural areas), unemployment (particularly in
urban zones), low rural productivity and income, and lack of pension or any income support for the
elderly. The rise in unemployment affects more urban workers from the poorest families, who are
twice likely to be unemployed and take longer to find a job. Therefore, high unemployment rates
have had particularly negative effects on the poor population in urban areas, as they have minimal
non-employment options, if any. As a result, between 1999 and 2002, household income per capita
inurbanareas fell more than 3 percent on averageamong the lowest income quintiles.
69. The Bolivian poor have very limited access to market-based mechanisms to cope with such risks
and shocks. The access of the poor to private medical insurance and, in general, to market-based
insurance systems, is negligible. Likewise, only 14percent of Bolivians have access to some kindof
credit.    By contrast, informal and other non-public risk management mechanisms are quite
widespread.18 However, as in other countries of the region, such informal risk management
mechanisms are useful mainly to cope with idiosyncratic risks, but not for addressing covariant




l7In1999, the povertygap was 14.9 percentat $2 aday and5.4 percentat $1dollar aday.
'*SeeMoser andAntezono (2001) for adetaileddescriptionof such mechanisms.



                                                     22

shocksthat massively affect household incomes, as i s the case of a prolonged economic crisis. Table
2 provides a general view of the principal social risksinBoliviaby age.


                    Table 2. Bolivia Overview of PrincipalRisks by Age (% of Population)
                                               -



           Prevalence of ARIS in childrenunder 5                                                                                     39                  41
    0-6    Prevalemeof ADDSinchildren under6                                                                                         28                  29
           No access to potabe water                                                                                                 12                  60
           Does notgo to school, 5 years old                                    24         49        46         39       37          57         67       61
           Does not go to school, 5 and6 years old                              15         30        27         23       21          40         50       44



           Does notgo to the first 5 gradesof primary school (7-11)             12         17        14         14       17          13         16       15

   7-14    Does notgo to the 6th-8thgrades of primary school(12-14)             43         40        35         40       51          49         62       17
           Workingchildren (7-14)                                                8          9         7          8        8          23         63       30


           Does not go to secondaryschool (15-18)                               36         31        37         37       51          62         74       67
   15-25   Does not have accessto highereducation(19-24)                        65         76        86         71       96        100          98       98
           Openunempoymnt rate (15-24)                                          11         19        19         15        4           3           2       2


   25-50   Openunempoymnt rate (25-64)                                           5          6        11          6         2          1           1       1
           Less than8 years of schooling                                        19         38        54         32       60          77         88       79


 more than Populationwithout retiremnt pension                                  69         92        99         81       93          97        100       97
    50     Population65 and more                                                54         25        21                  26          35         39
Source : Bolivia 2003 Public ExpenditureReview, INE MECOVI,2002.
                                                      -
Note: There is an apparent contradictionbetweenthe attendance figures shownin the Table above, which show 86% of 7-14children attendingschool, and

enrolmnt figures elsewhereinthe text, which show enrolmentratios for 7-14 inthe mid-nineties(97% of children aged7-14 were enrolled ins o m level of f o m l

education). The difference points to animportantfeature of educationinBolivia: highstudent absenteeismThe Table above shows that 10%of children were

enrolledbut not goingto schoolduring the referemeperiod




70. Under these conditions, the Government needs to be actively involved in the provision of social
protection programs that complement individual and household protection measures and market
insurance mechanisms. Social protection, through safety nets and by compensating for those gaps of
insurance markets or private protection, i s a central strategy in attaining the MDGs. Inparticular, it
i s an instrument to create opportunities for the poor population to make more productive investments
and increasetheir incomes. Such interventions also aim at improving the effectiveness of key social
policies like education, health and nutrition by increasing the access of poor families to such
services, henceprotectingandcreatinghuman capital.
71. Bolivia has great potential to builda social protection strategy that addresses the main risks and
vulnerabilities of the population and at the same time supports the achievement of the MDGs.
Several social protection programs and institutions are already in place. These include BONOSOL
(an income support benefit to the elderly) and PLANE(a counter-cyclical workfare program). Also,
the FPS and the PNC within the Directorb Unico de Fondos (DUF) seek to improve access of poor
people to basic social services such as water and sanitation, thus reducing poverty and inequality. In
addition, there are other focalized social protection interventions aimed at improving early child
development, reducinginfant andmaternal mortality, and promoting gender equality, among others.




                                                                           23

72. Even though public spending in social protection programs has steadily grown since the mid
1990s, the performance of these interventions has been unsatisfactory.              While Bolivia has
implemented social protection programs and interventions to prevent, mitigate and cope with risks,
these are not sufficient to respond to the needs of vulnerable groups. However, the greatest drawback
i s the absence of a comprehensive social protection framework and a mid-term strategy linked to
other social policies. Bolivia currently has no social protection system as such, lacks an articulated
and comprehensive framework for its various individual programs, and has no institutional structure
to coordinate them and provide reliable and standardized information. As a result, it has been
impossible to clearly define coherent goals, and the gap between the needs of the population and the
Government's responseremains evident.
73. Even though poverty incidence i s very high and concentrated, and hence geographical targeting
may be a useful mechanism to reach the poor, there i s a general trend to use universal selection for
reaching beneficiaries of social protection programs. Given the current fiscal situation and the
unfeasibility of covering the whole (poor) population, it might be useful to introduce additional
targeting mechanisms that ensure that social public spendingreach the poorest groups.
74. Government Strategy. As a first step towards the development of a comprehensive social
protection strategy, since early 2004, the national Government i s working to improve its
effectiveness in supporting the poor through a set of discrete measures. These include: (a) creating a
social protection network (Red de Proteccidn Social, RPS), as a mid-term sustainable intervention
seeking to tackle poverty and alleviate the negative effects of the current and future crises on the
poor population; (b) evaluating PLANE! within the RPS to introduce a set of adjustments that will
improve its effectiveness; and (c) reconciling national and municipal agendas and align efforts and
incentives to achieve the MDGs.
75. The Social Protection Network (RPS). To improve social protection and, in the medium term,
define a comprehensive social protection strategy, the Government created the RPS under the
umbrella of the DUF (a ministerial level agency in charge of compensation programs, coordination
of social funds and other social assistance interventions). The RPS was created by a supreme decree,
as a regulation of the Ley del Didlogo which created the DUF. The RPS consists of a set of
programs administered by a coordination unit attached to the DUF presidency. The RPS will not
require any additional bureaucracy under the DUF for the implementation of its programs and
projects in the field. Instead, it will largely use current administrative structures and any additional
requirements will be contracted out on a temporary basis. As a first stage, the RPS will focus on
increasing pro-poor investments, generate new sources of income for the most undeserved
population, empower communities, and support the decentralization process. In the medium and
long terms, the RPS aims to develop a comprehensive social protection framework for Bolivia and a
structured strategy, which will involve other agencies currently implementing social protection
programs throughout the country. As of fiscal year 2005, the Bank will support the Government to
define and implement a social protection strategy framework.
76. Duringthis first stage, the RPS will concentrate its efforts on income-generating interventions,
as the economic slowdown has put severe pressure on the employment and income of poor families.
These interventions comprise two components: (i)     a labor-intensive projects component in which the
RPS will finance only labor costs (PLANE), and (ii)small projects component in which the RPS
                                                         a
will transfer resources for financing entire projects (PROPAIS). In the case of labor-intensive
projects, the program will use PLANE'Sadministrative structure based on private regional micro-
finance agencies to register beneficiaries. In both cases, a national beneficiary registry, currently
under construction by the DUF, will be the main resource allocation instrument. In the future, these
programs are intended to become proper counter-cyclical interventions that will expand and reduce




                                                 24

their scope according to need, on the basis of specific triggers and indicators. The beneficiary
registry, built on the basis of self-targeting mechanism^,'^ i s currently based on PLANE'S
beneficiaries; thus, it is not complete as such. However, in the medium term, the registry is intended
to become a beneficiary identification systemto improvetargeting of all social protectionprograms.
77. PLANE. In 2002, the Government launched PLANE to mitigate the adverse effect of higher
unemployment levels on poor population. As a workfare program, PLANE'Smain objective i s
income generation to a very poor segment of the population severely affected by higher
unemployment. Indoing so, it pays for unskilled workers in labor intensive local projects on poor
communities. Most activities inwhich PLANE finances labor are small local and municipal projects
(e.g. local streets and municipal parks in the urban areas, and small roads in the rural areas). Its
operation follows an anti-cyclical mechanism that can be expanded or contracted according with
economic developments. PLANEoffers a monthly payment low enough to guarantee self-targeting.
The Government has fully implemented two phases of PLANE, during which some problems
regarding targeting, operational issues and geographical allocation of resources have become
evident. In April 2004, the Government launched the third phase of PLANE as an integral part of
the RPS. In doing so, DUF has defined a set of adjustments within the program's operation to
improve transparency, avoid politicization, allocate resourcesaccording to unemployment, and foster
community participation to implement and co-finance small projects. The proposed adjustments
include:

      0   To improve its effectiveness as a workfare program, PLANEwill concentrate its activities in
          urban areas. Not only about two-thirds of the Bolivian population live in urban areas, but
          also, as a result of the economic slowdown, unemployment among the poor in urban areas i s
          about 6 to 8 times higher than in rural zones. Accordingly, up to 70 percent of all PLANE
          beneficiaries in2004 will be urbanunemployed population.

      0   To increase the number of poor workers receiving payment, PLANE will not finance labor
          costs of maintenance projects under direct or shared municipal responsibility.20 Therefore,
          PLANE will finance unskilled labor only in those projects not included in the municipal
          Annual Operation Plans (POAs).

      0   Resource allocation will follow the number of potential beneficiaries in each municipality,
          using the registry of beneficiaries and replacing the previous mechanism that assigned
          municipal ceilings based mainly on population (in the second phase of PLANE, these
          ceilings led to inefficiencies in the geographical allocation of resources). This scheme
          proved to be effective duringthe initial phase of PLANE: as the registry i s constructed on
          the basis of self-targeting mechanisms, it i s expected that mostly people with very little or no
          income at all will apply for a place inPLANE.

     0    To improve transparency, PLANEwill implement a lottery system to select beneficiaries and
          assign them randomly to individual projects, as it i s predicted that the number of potential
          beneficiaries will be higher than those the programcan hire.

     0    PLANE will implement an information system that will improve program monitoring and
          increasebeneficiary rotation, hence increasing the number of beneficiaries.



l9 All unskilledworkers hiredunderPLANEreceivethe same wage which is below average wages paidto the poorest two
  quintilesof unskilledworkers.

2o As routine maintenance interventions are legally under the responsibility of a public agency, they have to be
  implementedwith or without PLANE; therefore, since the programwill not finance such activities, it is likely to trigger
 new projects andincrease the numberof poor workers receivingapayment.



                                                     25

        PLANE will improve the decentralized supervision of projects by hiring unemployed
        professionals for every 4-5 projects to oversee their workers.
78. Reconciling national and municipal agendas to achieve the MDGs. The DUFwill introduce an
incentive scheme to encourage municipalities to design and implement projects and interventions
directly related to the achievement of the MDGs. Implementation of such a scheme will take place
duringthe second semester of 2004. Inthe medium term, this scheme will evolve into a results (or
outcome)-based system, and will be linked to the efforts of other governmental agencies pursingthe
same goal.
79. Expected Outcomes. The most important result of the Government's initiatives regarding the
RPS and PLANE is the implementation of programs directed at increasing the income of very poor
populations that are highly vulnerable to the current economic crisis and the resulting high levels of
unemployment. This will be achieved within a coherent national framework, with counter-cyclical
mechanisms and instruments to improve efficiency and targeting. In addition, the creation of an
incentive linking national transfers with municipal results on the MDG agenda will serve as a pivot
point for promotinga results-basedorientation inthe social sectors.


Prior Social Protection Actions for SSPSAC-I
9 RPS. The Government has formally created a social protection network that includes coordination
     mechanisms with DUF programs, a technical coordination unit within the DUF, operational manuals
     that specify transparent criteria for investment focalization and project selection, and a single
     beneficiary registry;
9 PLANE. The DUFinitiatedadjustmentsto PLANEaccordingtothe specific actions detailedabove; and
>    Reconciling national and municipal agendas to achieve the MDGs. The Government has defined an
     incentive scheme to promote municipal investments directed to achieving the MDGs.


5. Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation of the MDGs
80. Successful poverty reduction measures and policy reforms targeted to achieving the MDGs in
the social sectors require correct allocation and monitoring of public funds, effective and efficient
use of public resources, and a continuous monitoring and evaluation system that allows policy
makers to improve public policies. To complement measures in each of the social sectors, the
Government i s committed to a set of actions that will ensure public expenditures are directed to the
most neededareas efficiently and transparently, and evaluation mechanisms are inplace to assess the
impact of public policies. These include (a) making social expenditures more transparent at the
national and sub-national levels, (b) consolidating a national system for statistical information with
greater public access to information on the achievement of the MDGs and (c) enhancing public
participation inmonitoring and evaluation of MDGs.

(a)Making SocialExpendituresMore TransparentandAccountable
81. Main Issues. Fighting poverty and putting in place the necessary policies to achieve MDGs
requires an open, transparent and predictable use of public resources. Moreover, public social
expenditures needto be open to the scrutiny of citizens, which inturn reduces possibilities of misuse
of funds and increases the effectiveness of public investments.            For this to happen, financial
information needs to be transparent and predictable, and a wide range of stakeholders need to have
access to this information. Despite major achievements on the budget in recent years in Bolivia,
important challenges remain in terms of access to budgetary and financial information and
accountability mechanisms. Inparticular, two main issues must be addressed:




                                                 26

0    Although information about the national budget is publicly available online through the SIGMA
     system (including all treasury-executed expenditures, both planned and executed), the need to
    present information in more user-friendly formats, allowing full access to non-technical users, i s
     still a challenge.

0    Information on municipal execution of resources (including HIPC I1resources) i s not always
     available to citizens on a timely basis and reports are not systematically published, making
     accountability at the local level difficult.
82. Reform Strategy. To promote an open and transparent budget execution in the social sectors
with increasing levels of accountability, the SSPSAC will consider the following two elements inthe
Government's strategy:
9 Making sector budgetinformation public, accessibleand easily understandable at themunicipal
      level. The Ministry of Finance, in coordination with the Ministry of Popular Participation, has
      put together a strategy for gathering and disseminating sector-specific financial information at
      the municipal level in the areas that are closely related to the achievement of the MDGs.
      Financial information, both on current expenditures and investment (including, but not limited
      to, HIPC funds), on health, education and water and sanitation services will be publicly
      accessible.
P Making information on budget execution open and transparent at the national level. The
      Government has disseminated reports containing the 2003 fund execution of all central
      government agencies and municipalities where this information i s available. In addition, it has
      issued Supreme Decree No. 27239 to improve transparency and strengthen public access to
      government financial information.        Lastly, the Government i s commissioning a study for
      assessing the best way to institutionalizeSIGMA, making its information available on-line to all
      citizens and in a user-friendly way, defining feedback mechanisms for users, and presenting
      information through community radios and other non-electronic means. Based on this study,
      SIGMA will make the necessary changes to provide information with the least possible
      restrictions by July 2005.
83. Expected Outcomes. The proposed strategy will ensure that citizens have free access to
financial information presented in an understandable way, that SIGMA promotes the adequate
administration of public resources and provides free access to the public to financial information, and
that local actors have more opportunity to scrutinize investment plans and public expenditures at the
municipal level.
(b) Consolidate a national systemfor statistical information on the achievement of the MDGs, with
greater public access.
84. MainIssues. A multiplicity of monitoring and evaluation systems exists inBolivia with little or
no coordination between them.          Line ministries have their own systems that are not always
coordinated with those of the National Institute of Statistics (INE) and/or the Analysis Unit for
Social and Economic Policies (UDAPE). In addition, indicators are usually aggregated, making it
difficult to identify specific areas for service delivery improvement. This lack of coordination and
proper information affects timely policy making, causing lost opportunities for improving the design,
implementation and impact of poverty reduction programs.           Finally, citizens and civil society
organizations have little or no access to statistical information. This makes tracking the delivery and
effectiveness of public services a difficult task, and prevents citizens from providing relevant
feedback to government to improve these services.
85. Reform Strategy. The Government i s committed to overcome these issues promoting the
consolidation of a national statistical information system and ensuring that statistical information i s



                                                  27

open and transparent to all segments of society. Specifically, the Government is moving forward in
the implementation of the following three activities:
     9 Consolidating a national statistical information system. This is a priority for UDAPE,
         which is now working on revamping the role of the Comite'Interinstitucional de Seguimiento
         y Evaluacidn (CISE). International donors have also shown interest in funding a reliable
         system to obtain information about socio-economic indicators, which inturn can improve the
         tailoring of their programs. Finally, the Government will present a proposal for CISE's
         sustainable funding, including, by May 2004, a proposal for strengthening its work.
    9 Ensuring that statistical information is reliable, public and shared in an understandable
         way. UDAPE has produced and shared a number of booklets presenting national and
         municipal socio-economic indicators disaggregated, among others, by gender and ethnicity.
         These materials are now developed ina user-friendly way and would serve as a key input for
         the discussions of the NationalDialogue.
    9 Including civil societyparticipation in the board of directors of CISE. Inorder to guarantee
         adequate access to statistical information by a wide range of civil society organizations and
         its participation on the decision making process regarding the production and use of this
         information, the Government has included the National Mechanism for Social Control in the
        board of directors of the CISE.
86. Expected Outcomes. Over the course of the SSPSAC program, Bolivia expects to achieve the
following results: (a) a consolidated statistical information system containing quantitative and
qualitative information on socio-economic indicators, especially those related to the MDGs; and (b)
increased participation of civil society in the decision making process around production and
dissemination of statistical information on MDGs.
(c) Participatory monitoring and evaluation of MDGs
87. Main Issues. The Government recognizes the need to strengthen monitoring and evaluation
systems that take into consideration the opinions of users of services and beneficiaries of public
policies. As of today, users of services and beneficiaries of programs have no systematic way to
voice their opinion regarding the quality of the services they receive. Thus, government officials
have no access to information precisely from those who know the most about the quality of their
programs: the users. This prevents line ministries from tailoring programs and services to better
address the needs of the populationand, ultimately, have a stronger impact on poverty reduction.
88. Reform Strategy. Interms of promotingeffective participatory monitoring and evaluation of the
MDGs, the key area beingconsidered by the Government underthis programis:
    k Taking into account the voice of users and beneficiaries when evaluating public
        interventions. The Government has experience in implementing user surveys and focus
        groups. It now plans to institutionalizea system of citizen report cards on health, education,
        and water and sanitation to measure, on a regular basis, user satisfaction with the services.
        UDAPEis leadingthis initiative and the Ministries of Health, Education, andInfrastructure
        and Basic Services are expected to sign an agreement to participate in a pilot phase. This
        will help the Government identify what aspects of the services need to be improved and what
        segments of the target population need further attention. In order to promote accountability
        through this mechanism, a special report will be shared with government oversight agencies
        (e,g. with the Contraloria), which, in turn, are expected to respond indicating potential
        corrective actions. A proposal describing these type of mechanisms and a inter-ministerial
        agreement will be presentedto key civil society actors by May 2004.




                                                28

89. Complementing the above efforts, the Government is implementing a national strategy for the
technical evaluation of progress made in achieving the MDGs. This strategy, lead by UDAPE and
with significant collaboration from other public agencies and international donors, includes: (i)          the
conformation of an inter-sectorial technical committee responsible for tracking progress; (ii)             the
definition of a work plan for its proper implementation, including identification of tasks and
responsible agencies, timing, and articulation mechanisms with civil society and the international
community; (iii)   definition of preliminary objectives, goals and indicators; and (iv) the realization of
system dynamics modeling for key social indicators. It i s expectedthat, during2005, this effort will
lead to the identification of information, technical and financing gaps to be resolved in order to
strengthen the country's capacity to monitor its progress in the social agenda. Likewise, active
discussions of the monitoring results with civil society and the internationalcooperation will lead to
improvements inpolicy actions.
90. Expected Outcomes. Over the course of the SSPSAC program, Bolivia expects to achieve a
gradual improvement of social services facilitated by periodic feedback provided by users and
beneficiaries, and enhancedby technical capacity to track progress on the social indicators.
91. Special arrangements for implementation.                   Aware of the limited capacity for the
implementation of a number of the activities mentioned above, international donors have shown
interest in supporting concrete steps. For instance, with the support of Norwegian and Dutch funds,
the Bank i s now implementing capacity building activities for participatory monitoring and
evaluation with a number of civil society and government actors in Bolivia. Pilot projects are being
financed, peer-exchange visits with colleagues in other countries are underway, and sub national,
national, and international workshops have being conducted. Special emphasis has been given to the
coordination with GTZ and DFIDfor the implementationof these activities.




(a) Making social expenditure more transparentand accountable:
    9 The Government has presented a strategy for collection and dissemination of municipal financial
          information related to the social sectors, and has disseminated information related to the 2003
          budget execution.
    9 The Government has made public the execution of public resources at the municipal level, both
          current and investment (including HIPC I1funds), for the 2002period.
(b) Consolidating a national systemfor statistical information with greater public access to information
    on the achievement of the MDGs:
    9 The Government haspresented a proposal for strengthening CISE, has published and disseminated
          through the Pre-National Dialogue a report with municipal MDG-related indicators and special
          reports with information at the departmental level, and has included the MNCS in the CISE board.
(c)Participatory monitoring and evaluation of MDGs:
    9 The Government has presented to civil society a strategy to take into account users' opinions and
          demands on quality and pertinence of social sector programs (including health, education, and
          water and sanitation), in line with the citizen report cards methodology, and has signed an inter-
          ministerial agreement to develop a specific methodology.
    9 The Government has started to develop a strategy for the technical evaluation of the achievements
          of the MDGs, including, among others, articulation with civil society and the international donors.




                                                     29

C.       Monitoringand Evaluation of the Program.
92. Monitoringand evaluation of the Government's social sectors program will be performed at two
levels: the first relates to the actions and processes that will be implementedwith the support of this
SSPSAC series. Led jointly by VIF'FEi and UDAPE, the Government will closely monitor the
actions and triggers specified inthe policy matrix (Annex 2)' as well as other intermediate outcomes.
The existing Bank portfolio will contribute to this supervision. For example, in the health and
education sectors, existing Bank-financed projects will provide additional assistance in monitoring
compliance. Inthe water and sanitation sector, earmarked funds from the German Cooperation will
support technical assistancefor monitoringand evaluation efforts.
93. The second level will monitor and evaluate progress made by the country in reaching the
MDGs. Here, the Government, together with the international donor community, is takingimportant
steps. As referred in the previous section (Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation of MDGs), a
technical committee with representativesfrom UDAPEand the various ministrieshas been created to
lead these monitoring and evaluation efforts. The first objective of this committee i s to define and
agree on a set of indicators and annual targets to track progress. Next, it will work on identifying
causal links between policies and outcomes, costing policy alternatives, coordinating funding
initiatives and periodically reviewing and disseminating progress made, with participation from civil
society and the internationaldonor community, inorder to take corrective actions as needed. Table 3
presents the preliminary indicators already identified, along with their annual and/or medium-term
targets and information sources.
94. Parallel, as part of the harmonization agenda, the international donors are advancing with the
preparation of an "umbrella" project that would help government unify the existing information
systems, strengthen citizen participation in monitoring and evaluation, and introduce new
information technologies. This effort would include: (i)    support to INEto improve measurement of
results at all levels of government; (ii)   support to develop further financial management systems,
drawing on recommendations from the recent PERand CFAA; (iii)           improved intemet connectivity at
the municipallevel; and (iv) support for broadparticipationin the process of reviewing results.
95. Specific sector considerations follow:
     For the health sector, information sources include the National Health Information System
      (SNIS), the administrative data from national programs (malaria, chagas and TB), and the
     Demography and Health Surveys (DHS) for infant and maternal mortality and nutrition
      outcomes.
     For education, medium-termoutcomes will be monitored via the Ministry's information system,
      which already allows for precise measuring of primary completion rates by gender and
      secondary enrollment and completion rates. An additional tracking indicator i s the SIMECAL
     results, which measure student learning and thus serve as a proxy for school quality. Inorder to
     assure that completion rates are not being bought at the price of reduced learning, SIMECAL
     results on quality and coverage will be closely monitored.
     For water and sanitation, the Vice-ministry of Basic Services has developed a Sector
     Information System (SIAS) which i s currently operational but does not yet include the sector
     data, which needs to be provided by the service providing utilities. I t is expected that the SIAS
      will be put in operation and serve as the main instrument for monitoring and evaluation of the
      water and sanitation outcomes.




                                                  30

                                                   gets
                                          Baseline              Targets                 Information
                                                                                        Source and       Levelof
                                        Year Valui 2004    2005     2006 2007201f Periodicity           Measure

   Health and Nutrition
 1 Prevalence       o f     malnutrition
   (heighvage) in children under 3      1998 25.6  22.9                    20.2 17.3       DHS

 2 Infant Mortality Rate                1998 67      59                     55    45    every 4 years: Iepartments

 3 Maternal Mortality Rate              1994 390    317                    279 200
 4 Coverage 3d dose of Pentavalent in12002
   children < 1year                          98% 90%       90%      91% 93%95%             SNIS         Municipal
 5 Percentage skilled birthattendance   2002 54%   61%     65%       66% 67%78%          (annually)

 6 Malaria Annual Parasitic Index in at                                                   Malaria
   risk areas                           2002 4.3    4.2     4.0      4.0    3.9 3.5       Program       Municipal
                                                                                         (annually)
 7 Percentage of municipalities with                                                       Chagas
   Chagas Infestation Rate >3%          2003 48%   38%     30%       20% 10% 0%           Program       Municipal
1                                                                                        (annually)
 8 Pulmonary TB+ cases cured with12002                                                  TB Program
   DOTS                                       80%  83%     84%       85%   86%90%        (annually)     Municipal

   Education
 1 Gross Primary Completion Rates       2001 71%     75                      81 89
 2 Gender gap in primary completion                                                         SIE          National
   rates                                20015.1 pi  2.5                       0   0      SIMECAL

   Water and Sanitation
 1 Water coverage inurban areas         2001 88%   88%     89%       91% 93% 99%           SIAS         Municipal
 2 Water coverage inruralareas          2001 47%   50%     51%       52% 56% 59%         (annually)    md Nationa

 3 Sanitation coverage in urban areas   2001 46%   52%     53%       56% 61% 87%
 4 Sanitation coverage inrural areas    2001 32%   33%     34%       38% 38%45%
 5 Urban population with treatment of               1.8     2.0      2.2
   wastewater                                      iillion million million

   Source: UDAPE, INE, Ministry of Educationand UNDP. Changes in targets may follow the ongoing National Dialogue
  2004.


  D.        Fiscal Costs of the ProposedProgram

  96. The Government's Social Sectors Programand its actions supported through this SSPSAC series
  have been identified without losing sight of the ongoing difficult fiscal situation facing the country.
  A close link has been assured with the findings and recommendations of the recently completed
  Public Expenditure Review (PER) and should be maintainedthroughout the second and third phases
  of the Program, securing compliance within the Government's fiscal policy. Most of the policies and
  actions identified in the first credit are fiscally neutral, as they either set the stage for later
  implementation (like the design of a strategy in education that will be implemented during the
  second and third phases), reallocate resources within the sectors to ensure better targeting towards
  policies with stronger links to priority outcomes (for example, by shifting public subsidies in health
  towards primary health care in rural areas) or improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs
  already being funded (for example, in water and sanitation investments, in PLANE'Simprovement
  plan and inthe social protection strategy).



                                                   31

97. However, the implementation of the three phases of the program will most certainly involve
additional spending in some areas, that will be funded from reallocations from other areas,
international donor and multilateral organizations, or new resources. As the program progresses,
implementing actions in health and education will necessarily involve revisiting the situation of
human resources in those areas, which the recent PER has identified -together                                 with pension
outlays-      as critical for achieving a fiscal balance in Bolivia. Overall, marginal expenses are back
loaded inthe program so that the fiscal impact is going to be felt duringthe second and thirdphases,
when the Government is expected to be in a better position to fund such activities. Precise fiscal
estimates for some of these actions, now pending, will then be available and should serve as inputs
for further discussions under a comprehensive fiscal policy framework. Table 4 summarizes the
expected fiscal impact of the policy actions included inthis program.




              Action                                             ExpectedFiscalImpact
 Healthand Nutrition
 Expandingcoverageof primary Bettertargetingof existing SUMIresources towards priority interventionsandrural
 health care to underserved areas. This will requireadjustments in other parts of the benefits package to ensure
 areas                              the policy's overall sustainability.No fiscal cost in the first phase i s expected, and
                                    the current evaluation of the SUMI will provide an estimate of the cost of
                                    expandingthe program.
 Reducing      malnutrition   in New interventions in nutrition to be implemented in the latter phases of the
 children under 3 and anemia in Program. Some of them will be financed through SUMI (see previouspoint), where
 pregnantwomen                     combination with other existing activities may reduce marginal costs. For others,
                                    support from the internationalcooperation will be required. Recent sector work has
                                   estimated the cost of basic nutrition interventionsto improve the nutritional status
                                   of childrenat less than US$7million a year.
 Reducing the incidence and Protectionof the budget for existingpublic healthprograms and securing a regular
 morbidity      from     malaria,  financing source for the PAI. The latter may have a fiscal impact depending on the
 Chagas andTB.                     Government's choice for financingvaccines, estimatedin US$ 5-10 million.
 Improving the functioning of      Improved targeting of resources spent on HRH towards rural and marginalized
 the health services network       areas. Fully implementing a human resources policy in health will have a fiscal
                                   impact that needs to be calculated, but it will be reflected only during the third
                                   phaseof the program.
 Education
 Development of the Bolivian The fiscal cost is negligible in the short term, and the medium term financial
 Educational     Strategy   with   implicationswill be estimatedas part of the designof the strategy.
 popularparticipation
 Improvingsecondary education      Greater secondary enrollment would require more teachers, more pedagogical
                                   inputs and possibly more school infrastructure.However, a parallel rationalization
                                   effort would entail cost savingsrelative to what the expansionwould otherwise cost,
                                   reducing the final net cost. A final estimate of potential fiscal costs will be done
                                   once specificpoliciesandactionsare defined.
 Improving primary completion Improvementsin student flow and completion rates leads to cost savings through
 rates                             better use of resourcesoer child.
 Water and Sanitation
 New financial policy andutility I Implementationwould improvetargetingandefficiency of availableresources.
 modemizationprogram
 New technical assistance policy   Fiscal impact i s expected to be low. Funding would be provided by intemational
 for institutionaldevelopment of   donors. The fiscal impactof executinginvestments would also be mainly pickedup
 serviceproviders                  by donors.
 Social Protection
 Social    Protection Network The new program within the RPS (PROPAIS) requires fresh resources. The DUF
 (RPS)                           I .
                                   will use a new loan from CAF and redirect IABD funds to cover it. The RPS will
                                   ieaa to improvedtargetingana benenciary selection, improving emciency.
                                       . .                       .. - .           . . .            .   --
 PLANE!                            No fiscal impact is expected. There will be improved effectiveness of existing
                                   PLANE resources and improved targeting through focusing the program in urban
                                   areas and usingthe beneficiaryregistry.

 IV.       THE PROPOSEDSOCIALSECTORSPROGRAMMATICSTRUCTURAL
                                    ADJUSTMENT CREDIT

A.        Linksto CountryAssistanceStrategyandOtherBankOperations

98. The proposed series of three single-tranche SSPSACs i s aligned fully with the Bolivia CAS and
represents the Association's immediate vehicle of financial assistance to support the country's social
development agenda. Other immediate instruments of IDA support to the Government focus on
promoting macroeconomic recovery. In the near future (fiscal year 2005), these will also be
complemented by projects focusing on institutional reform, addressing problems of inequality and
difficulties in income generation, and supporting the education sector.
99. Depending upon Bolivia's progress towards formulating a revised PRSP, the second and/or third
credits in this series could eventually be converted into a PRSC. The ongoing 2004 National
Dialogue provides the initial frame for the consultation leading to a revised poverty strategy (see
Annex 6 for more details on the National Dialogueprocess). On this occasion, the Dialogue i s solely
focused on a pro-poor growth agenda, covering topics such as the development of integral productive
strategies (with priority given to micro and small indigenous enterprises) and the revision of the
country's national compensation policy (which defines the rules for intergovernmental transfers).
Initial estimates placed the conclusion of the National Dialogue process around August 2004 (see
initial timetable below).   However, a two-month delay has already affected this calendar. The
product of this participatory process -the National Dialogue Law 2004- would provide a core input
for a pro-poor growth component ina subsequent Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy.
100.      The proposed SSPSACs would assist the Government in sustaining progress in the social
areas and maintain the social agenda in subsequent discussions leading to a revised PRSP. It i s
feasible that, by the end of 2004 or during the first half of 2005, the Government may have
concluded its new PRSP. If so, the second and/or third SSPSAC in this program could be converted
into a PRSC, building on the progress made in the first Credit and bringing in new components in
accordance with the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy.




                                                33

                                                                      Departmental
  Call for National            Pre Dialogue        Municipal Dialogue   Dialogue    National
  Dialogue               (informing the population) Apr 12-May19      June 28-July4 Dialogue
                             Feb 12-March27

  2003              2004
     Nov        Dec  Jan     Feb        March       April      May    June t   July             Oct


                                                                        SSPC-I                 PRSP
                                                                                             expectedrevise1
                                                                                             version




 101.    The proposed SSPSAC complements ongoing work supported by other IDA financial
assistanceto Bolivia, as follows:
 -     Inthe area of decentralization, the SSPSAC complements a recent series of Programmatic
       Structural Adjustment Credits. The two credits disbursed under this program (in 2001 and
       2003) focused on the relationship between the central and sub national levels of government,
       and aimed at (i)increasing the efficiency, transparency and accountability of Bolivia's
       decentralized government system, and (ii)improving the capacity of the decentralized
       government systemto deliver services. The SSPSAC complements these efforts by targeting
      the introduction of incentives to municipal social services for achieving MDGs and supporting
      results-basedinstruments (e.g., performance agreementsinthe health sector).
 -     Inthe area of institutional reform, the ongoing Institutional Reform Project (IRP) aims to
      create the framework for a modem public sector, as well as to build several model agencies in
       order to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, quality and transparency of public services
      delivery. The IRP includes horizontal reforms in areas such as civil service, results-based
      management and anticorruption, and vertical reforms in six selected agencies. The SSPSAC
       will complement these efforts by promoting improved access to information and underlying
      financial flows and participatory monitoring and evaluation of progress in the social sectors
      towards the MDGs.
 -    Inthe social protection area, the SSPSAC provides continuity to andenhances the progress
      achieved under the 2003 Social Safety Net Adjustment Credit. In particular, it builds on
      lessons learned inbudgeting protection efforts for core social expenditures, maintains relevant
      social targets for prioritized programs, and further develops social protection programs.
102.     The SSPSAC also builds heavily upon previous analytical work performed in the country
and inthe social sectors, and secures links with ongoing Bank operations to strengthen sustainability,
monitoring and evaluation. Table 5 summarizes key recommendations from recent analytical work
that were taken into account while preparing this Credit. Likewise, the proposed contents are aligned
with ongoing investment operations, including the Health Sector Reform Project (APL-II),the
Education Reform Project and the Education Quality Project, which are providing funding for
technical assistance and investments in some of the specific areas that will be needed to secure
progress towards achieving the MDGs.




                                                     34

                     Table 5. Input of Bank Analytical Work inthe SSPSAC Design

        Study                                    Mainfindings1 recommendations
                                      taken into account for the preparation of the SSPSAC
Public Expenditure     1   Develop a centralized conceptual framework for all social protection programs, with
Review, April 2004         a view to eliminate overlapping, improve coordination and standardize information
                          among existing programs.
                       a  Develop a social protection framework to better define priorities and assign public
                           spending and improve targeting of social protection programs.
                      1   Conduct sector-specific reforms (inhealth and education) intended to increase
                          equity and efficiency in public spending and public service delivery (see more
                          details for health under the sector ESW).
                      1   Produce budget information in more user friendly formats to reach a broader
                          audience and adopt a more open policy of information disclosure to allow citizens
                          to monitor and scrutinize public expenditure management.
CFAA I CPAR           a   Support initiatives leading to better frequency and quality of public sector financial
(forthcoming)             reporting, and to enhance public access to it as a means to increase transparency and
                          accountability.
                      1   Strengthened expenditure management in the public sector will facilitate progress
                          towards SWAps inthe social sectors.
ESW: Health Sector        The use of performance agreements help focused government priorities at all levels
Reform inBolivia,         and should be maintained to strengthen accountability.
January 2004          1   The public health insurance contributedto significant improvements incoverage of
                          maternal and child services, but resources need to be better targeted towards the
                          poor and the first level of care.
                      1   Issuesrelated to humanresourcesfor health (staffing levels, staff distribution and
                          staff productivity) are a remaining challenge that has to be addressed to improve the
                          equity and effectiveness of service delivery.
                      1   Sustainable financing of priority programs (vaccination, malaria, Chagas, TB) needs
                          to be ensured to maintain recent achievements.
                      1   Specific policy actions are neededto increase the responsiveness to and improve the
                          outcomes among indigenous populations.
ESW: Poverty and      a   Malnutrition rates in Bolivia are severe and should be monitored as a key indicator
Nutrition inBolivia,      of the poverty reduction strategy. Addressing this will require leadership in
2002                      nutrition and developing a practical, time-bound and budgeted national nutrition
                          stratenv.
System dynamics       1   Malaria: results suggest that ensuring a minimal level of financing is key to keep the
modeling (ongoing)        Annual Parasitic Index below 5 percent.
                      1   Education For All: the system dynamics modeling o f education outcomes has been
                          a key input in the development of the education strategy.
EducationESW          1   Main findings and recommendations of the ESW, discussed with the Government
(ongoing)                 and other donors, will serve as inputs for the strategy included in the SSPSAC and
                          will contribute to future multi-donor initiatives in the sector.
Poverty Assessment    1   Humancapital development is a central element of the foundations for sustained
(forthcoming)             growth, poverty reduction and a more equitable Bolivia.
                      1   Due to demographic forces, Bolivia is now inthe best position to more quickly
                          translate human development improvements o f current younger cohorts to the
                          whole labor force. For doing so, national development policies need to maintain a
                          long-term perspective.
                      1   The economic slowdown has put severe stress on the employment and incomes of
                          the poorest families.
Workshop for          1   Key issuesrelated to coverage and quality o f intercultural bilingualeducation are
BilingualEducation        identified and solutions proposed.
(forthcoming)




                                                   35

B.       Coordinationwith other Donors

103.    Inorder to contribute to improvetheeffectiveness of intemationalcooperation support to the
social sectors, the SSPSAC i s being prepared in close coordination with other multilateral and
bilateral international donors. This close collaboration i s particularly important in the case of
Bolivia, where resources from the intemational cooperation represent roughly 9 percent of GDP
(and, in some sectors, cover almost all the available resources for investments). This first Credit in
the series has beenpreparedjointly with the German Government, who will be co-financing it. Joint
work between KfW and the Bank has contributed to advance all stages of project preparation. This
collaboration has included close coordination and technical assistance by KfW and GTZ in the
identification, discussion and preparation of the components identified in this program, with
particular emphasis inthe water and sanitation and social protection components.
104.    Throughout project preparation, other members of the intemational cooperation have
actively participated in specific policy discussions regarding different sectors involved in the
SSPSAC series. Included here are the Canadian, Danish, Great Britain, Japanese, Netherlands,
Spanish, Swedish and U.S.A. cooperation agencies, as well as UNDP, the European Commission,
IADB and PAHO. Additionally, under the leadership of the national Government, Bank staff have
participated in various informative meetings during the preparation process in Bolivia, assuring
broadinformation and discussion with the international community.
105.     Thisjoint collaboration is important not only for strengthening this specific programbut also
for securing a more effective country support strategy in the future. Inthe long term, this could
entail moving to multi-donor budget support initiatives linked to outcomes in the social sectors. A
Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) could be an important next step in harmonizingdonor assistanceand
aligning efforts behind a common strategy. As a result, the donors have expressedtheir interest in
advancing towards a SWAp, which could take place in the context of supporting the Government's
education strategy. The proposed SSPSAC acknowledges these short- and long-term intentions in
both process and contents. In process, it supports improving the borrower's fiduciary systems in
preparation for new lending instruments, strengthening accountability and citizen monitoring. In
content, it coordinates education policies and actions with the envisioned implementation of the
education strategy to be supported via a SWAPand supports a results-basedapproach throughout the
social sectors.


C.       Rationalefor a ProgrammaticApproachand ProgramDesign

106.     The proposed programmatic approach provides an opportunity for sustained but flexible
support to the social sectors through a period of potentially deep changes in the country. In addition
to the ongoing National Dialogue, Bolivia will also soon call for a Constitutional Assembly with
potentially profound consequences on its political, economic and administrative arrangements. In
this context of high uncertainties, an outcome-oriented social program over a three-to-four year
period creates conditions for creating and sustaining an overarching medium-term social sectors
agenda in line with the Government's commitment to achieving the MDGs, and aligns available
financing and technical assistanceto support it.
107.     The flexibility of this programmatic approach will allow adjustments to be made according
to the results of the National Dialogue, as well as to progress made by the Government in
implementing its social sectors program. This includes the opportunity of converting the second
andor third phase of the SSPSAC into a PRSC, if and when the appropriate conditions are in place.
The policy areas selected in the social sectors (e.g. water and sanitation coverage, infant mortality
and primary completion rates) are considered by all to be highly relevant for Bolivia, independent of
the results of ongoing political and social processes. Benchmarks for the second and third credits


                                                36

 have been identified defining either minimum expected outcomes or the general direction and
 progress agreed on key policy areas. These criteria will allow the second and third credits to be
 discussedin detail at the appropriate moments, with sufficient flexibility to introduce adjustments to
 reflect the country's specialcircumstances.
 108.     Other lending options were considered and finally rejected in favor of a programmatic
 adjustment instrument. Support for investment lending was rejected in favor of adjustment lending
 given both the Govemment's needfor broad budgetary support inthe present difficult fiscal situation
 and the existence of ongoing investment operations in several of the social sectors. In this context,
 the programmatic adjustment approachprovides the Government with the neededresourcesand with
the necessary flexibility for defining the precise steps and content of a medium term program. The
 option of a single standing adjustment operation, although attractive as a means of reducing risk
exposure in a volatile environment, was not considered an appropriate vehicle as it would not
provide the longer-term framework needed to sustaining progress in the social sectors in a volatile
environment.
D.        TheLoans

 109.     The SSPSAC Program will consist of three single tranche credits, the first one of SDR 17.2
million (approximately US$ 25 million). Given the ongoing special circumstances in the country,
the resulting uncertainties and the need to discuss a new CAS by mid 2005, the amounts for the
second and third credits will not be anticipated upfront. The second credit i s expected to be
negotiated and submitted for approval approximately one to two years after the first one and once a
new CAS i s in effect. The third credit would take place approximately 12 months after the second
one. The basis for orienting the preparation, negotiation and approval of these subsequent credits
would be progress made in the direction signaled by the outcomes and actions described in the
Policy Matrix (inAnnex 2).
110.      Disbursement arrangements would follow the simplified procedures for SALSapproved by
the Board of Directors on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open a USD deposit account at the
Central Bank. Once the Bank formally notifies the Borrower that a tranche (credit) i s available for
withdrawal, the Borrower may submit a simplified withdrawal applicationso that the proceeds of the
tranche are deposited by the Bank in this account, for use in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
Disbursements will not be linkedto specific purchases and supporting evidence for disbursements is
therefore not required. The proceeds of the credit may not be used to finance expenditures typically
excluded under the Credit Agreement. The Bank may require audits of the deposit account into
which the proceedsof the loan will be disbursed.
111.     Benchmarks and Triggers. In extensive discussions with VIP=              and other govemment
agencies, a number of benchmarks have been agreed to be supported by this SSPSAC series and
measure progress in achieving the objectives of the Govemment's Social Sectors Program. The
detailed set of benchmarks for the first SSPSAC and an indicative list of benchmarks for the second
and thirdphases are specified inthe Policy Matrix (Annex 2). This matrix also includes a minimum
set of expected outcomes at the end of the program, closely linked to the selectedMDGs.
112.     The indicative benchmarks for the second SSPSAC listed in Annex 2 will not necessarily all
be conditions for future lending. Many of them will serve as guideposts to signal progress of
decisions and actions towards achieving the objectives of the social sectors program, or setting
processes inthe right direction. Among these benchmarks, some key actions will serve as triggers or
minimumconditions to proceed with the processing of the secondoperation (highlighted inbold and
italics). These secondphasetriggers will help secure progress towards the expected outcomes.
113.     In recognition of the current uncertainties and the possibility of converting this support
towards an eventual PRSC, no triggers have been signaled out ex-ante for the third operation.


                                                37

Specific triggers for this last phase of the Program would be defined during preparation of the
SSPSAC-11.
114.       Table 6 presents the list of selected triggers, including prior conditions for loan effectiveness
for the first Credit and conditions to proceed with preparation of the second phase of the Program,
which the Government has committedto implement. This subset of policy actions has been selected
taking into consideration the significance of their contributions to the expected progress inthe social
sectors. In most cases, they reflect the beginning of key processes or the implementation of needed
regulatory modifications in order to secure progress towards the selected outcomes.                         Specific
considerations for their selection include: (a) in health, the value of securing quantifiable public
health results directly linked to improved health status; (b) in education, the contribution made to a
revised and validated national strategy for the sector; (c) in water and sanitation, for being the
identified solutions to major sector bottlenecks that impede proper financing, improved performance
and sustainable services; (d) in social protection, for paving the way to obtaining a comprehensive,
national social protection strategy; and (e) in participatory monitoring and evaluation of MDGs, for
the demonstrative value of implementingan evaluation system with ample citizen participation.


                    Table 6. List ofPrior Actions and Triggersfor SSPSAC-Iand SSPSAC-I1
                                            SSPSACI                                          SSPSACI1
                                   PriorActions (June 2004)                             Triggers (July 2005)
                        1.Boliviamaintains a stable macroeconomic         1.Boliviamaintainsa stablemacroeconomic
 macroeconomic          framework.                                        framework.
 framework

                        2. TheGovernmenthas issued a supreme              2. For 2004, (i) coveragewith thethird dose of
 morbidity and          decree whichregulates Law 2042 andprovides        DPT has increased in at least Spercentage
 mortality associated   that Spercent of theresourcesfiom the social      points in no less than 40% of the chronic
 with transmissible     security administration budget is allocatedto     municipalities; (ii) the Malaria IPA is less than
 diseases.              fund diseaseprevention activities,particularly    or equal to 5.0 in themunicipalitiesat risk; (iii)
                        for thePAL                                        no morethan 10% of themunicipalitieshavea
                                                                          Chagas infestation rate higher than 3%; and
                                                                          (iv) 85%of the newpositive cases of TBhave
                                                                          been cured withDOTS.

                        3. TheMOE hasprepared theMulti-annual             3. ThePOMA 2004-2008 has beenpresented to
 Contributeto the       Operational Plan (POMA)2004-2008for the           and debated by the SecondNationalEducation
 institutionalizationof education sector, incorporatingin its objectives  Congress.
 participative          theMDGs.
 democracyin
 education

 Water and              4. TheGovernmenthas (a) enacted Law 2649          4. Thenewfinancingpolicy andthe
                                                                        ~

 Sanitation. Improve    for channelingof resources in the water and       Institutional ModernizationProgramfor the
 the efficiencyof       sanitation sector and (b) issued a supreme        water and sanitationsector are in effect and
 investmentsinthe       decreethat establishes a newfinancing policy      being implemented.
 sector throughthe      andtheInstitutional ModernizationProgram
 implementationof a     for the sector, including mechanismsfor the
 new financingpolicy,   allocation of creditsandgrants to thepublic or
 the institutional      mixedEPSAS, either directly or through the
 modernization          municipalities.
 program, anda
 mechanismfor           5. TheSupremeDecree that authorizesthe            5. FUNDASABhas been legally constituted
 institutional          creation of FUNDASAB has been approved.           and has startedits operations.
 development.




                                                       38

       Objective                            SSPSAC I                                          SSPSAC I1
                                   Prior Actions (June 2004)                            Triggers (July 2005)

                         6. TheGovernmenthas createda national            6. TheGovernmenthas defined a national
 Create and              Social Safety Net with at leastthefollowing      SocialProtection Strategy that includes, at
 implement a national    characteristics:(i)mechanisms to coordinate      least, thefollowing components: (i)a
 Social Safety Net       existingprograms,avoid overlap andguarantee      conceptualsocialprotection framework; (ii)
 (RPS), and develop a    a coherentoperationbetween the RPS and the       definition of population at risk andmain needs;
 national Social         PNC; (ii)a coordination unit under the           (iii)a clear definition of priorities; (iv)
 Protection strategy     direction of DUF; (iii)satisfactory operational  identification of main interventions; (v)
                         manuals (seeAnnex 2); and (iv)thedesignof a      budgetary requirementsand investment
                         single beneficiary register system to identi&    timetable; and (vi)a monitoringand evaluation
                         targetedpopulations andallocateresources.        system.

 Participatory                                                            7. A strategy is inplacefor the technical
 Monitoring and                                                           evaluation of theprogress in theachievement
 Evaluationof                                                             of theMDGs and discussionof theresults
 MDGs.Develop the                                                         achieved sofar have been held with civil society
 institutional capacity                                                   and the international cooperation.
 to performpermanent
 evaluations of the
 progress inthe
 achievement o f the
 mainindicators
 related to the MDGs.

 Include the opinion     7. TheBorrower is implementing aparticipative    8. TheGovernmenthas startedthe system of
 of the beneficiaries of evaluation systemon the quality and adequacy     follow-up andparticipativeevaluation of the
 the education, health   of the Borrower's health, educationand water     MDGs andhas reportswhichare shared with
 and water and           and sanitationprogram. In doingso, it has: (a)   other instances of governmental oversight.
 sanitation programs    presented to the civil society aproposal with the
 inthe evaluation of     mechanismsand instrumentsfor thefollow-up
 these services.         andparticipative evaluation of the achievement
                         of theMDGs; and (b)signed an inter-
                         ministerial agreement (betweenMinistries of
                         Health, Education and Basic Services)to
                         develop theproposed evaluation system.



115.      In spite of the importance of this subset of actions, other identified benchmarks inthe Policy
Matrix are also fundamental, as they bring comprehensiveness to the overall Program, secure
progress and allow for close follow-up to be made. The maintenance of a strong policy and
institutional base for effective regulation of the social sectors will be needed for successful
implementation.
E.        ProgramImplementationandSupervision

(1) Safeguard arrangements
116.      Environmental Category. Because of its broad, cross-sectoral scope, the SSPSAC i s being
processed as a structural adjustment credit and would, therefore, not be subject to environmental
classification     for   screening      purposes.         Nonetheless,    following        valuable      enhancement
recommendations received during project preparation,                      considerations        regarding possible
opportunities to contribute to advance environmental policies in the social sectors have been made.
Specific actions havebeen identified inhealth, water and sanitation, and social protection.




                                                         39

 117.    Inhealth, important efforts are underway in healthcarewaste management. InDecember
2001, Bolivia approved its current regulation for hospital waste management.'* Its implementation
triggered requests for technical assistance from numerous health care providers.            With the
participation of international agencies and the Bank's financed Health Reform Project (Credit No.
3541-BO), the MOH is providing support to major hospitals for proper diagnosis, quantification,
internal management, and proper disposal of healthcarewaste. Initial support has concentrated inthe
cities of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and El Alto, and is now being extended to other capital
cities inthe remainingdepartments.
118.    The SSPSAC series' benchmarks and triggers in water and sanitation, and in social
protection, also consider the importance of strengthening environmental efforts.         In water and
sanitation, environmental sustainability has been discussed as one of the criteria to evaluate the
coverage rates reachedin potable water and sanitation. Inaddition, the Program will support efforts
to increase the levels of treatment of wastewater, currently very low throughout the county. Insocial
protection, it is expected that the operation manuals for PLANE and the RPS will include sound
environmental guidelines.
119.    Social Assessment. The Government's Social Sectors Program supported by this SSPSAC
series addresses the need of improving the MDGs among indigenous peoples. Many of the actions
supported are directed at improving access to social services in rural and marginalized areas, where
the population is predominantly indigenous. This includes focusing actions in those municipalities
that lagbehind national averages, which are mainly rural and indigenous.
120.    In addition, the SSPSACs support specific actions directly targeted towards indigenous
peoples that will complement efforts to increase access to social services inrural areas. Inhealth, the
Government will take actions to formally recognize indigenous medical practices and beliefs and
improve coordination between traditional (indigenous) practice and the public health system. In
addition, the MOH will make progress on culturally adapting health facilities on the basis of user
satisfaction surveys among indigenous peoples, in conjunction with a wide dissemination of the
Pregnant Women's fights Charter, which includes rights specifically related to indigenous
preferences (for example, the position for childbirth, and beinggiven the placenta after delivery). In
education, the Bolivian Education Strategy which will come out of the 2"d National Education
Congress is expected to include specific measures that address bilingual education. Finally, the
social safety net created under the umbrella of the DUF will include instruments (such as the
PROPAIS) to transfer resourcesfor small projects in indigenous communities.
121.    These measures are expectedto contribute to improve humandevelopment indicators among
indigenous peoples. These include improved female educational achievements in rural areas, greater
cultural responsiveness of public health services leading to increased demand for these services
among indigenous peoples and decreasedrisks associatedwith childbirth for indigenous women, and
greater options for social protection for indigenous communities.
122.    Transparency and Accountability in the Use of Public Funds. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in June 2000 and i s still in effect. Overall, procurement
risk assessment of Bolivia is rated high although significant improvement has been achieved in the
CDF context by a number of project implementing agencies. Assigned risk assessment level i s due
mainly to a limited institutional capacity for implementing projects at all levels, particularly at the
local government level; lack of qualified procurement staff in a number of agencies to carry out
procurement functions and tasks in an efficient manner; and the need to introduce streamlined
country procurement policies and procedures.


''"Norma Boliviana de ResiduosSdlidos Generados en Establecimientos de Sal&".



                                                   40

123.      There have been improvements in procurement following the promulgation of a new
Supreme Decree in May 2003 and the implementation of other actions proposed for reform and
modernization of the local procurement system, aimed to provide increased transparency conditions
in public procurement and to harmonize donor procurement around improved national procedures.
The Government and the Association have discussed the harmonization of policies and procedures
along the implementation of the agreed action plan of the CPAR with a view to achieving such
objectives through: (i)   preparation of modern procurement legislation compatible with international
standards and practices, including the implementation of a national regulatory agency and a code of
ethics for public procurement staff; (ii)      gradual implementation of an e-government procurement
system; and (iii)    issuingof adequate local standards procedures and adoption of standardized local
biddingdocuments at all levels of government.
124.      However, advances in the local procurement framework for harmonization of policies and
procedures should be revisited as a result of the enactment by the Government of the subsequent
Supreme Decree No. 27328 in January 2004. This Decree incorporated changes that are at the core
of procurement harmonization and may be considered as a backtrack from the achievement of
harmonization objectives. Also, the Government's decision to cancel a selection process already
underway for the employment of a consultant firm which would perform an overall review of the
Supreme Decree poses additional doubts on the likelihood that further progress will be achieved. As
a next step, the Bank will proceed shortly to hire an international consultant firm to carry out a
review of the Supreme Decree currently in place andwill make available the review outcomes to the
Government. Such outcomes would be used as an input for resuming the harmonization work in
procurement.
125.      FinancialManagement. The relative increasein adjustment lending, debt relief and sector
programs, in place of traditional investment projects, has reduced the need to track individual
borrower transactions and has highlighted the importance of assessing Bolivia's own Public
Financial Management (PFM) system.               The CFAA i s the Bank's instrument for assessing the
country's PFM systems, practices and accountability arrangements. The Bank i s committed to
complete a CFAA for all borrowers by the end of fiscal year 2004.
126.      Even though there was a current CFAA on file?' the Bank decided to update the knowledge
of the country's public financial management to provide a fiduciary basis for the planned shift to
adjustment lending. The main CFAA mission was carried out in FebruaryMarch 2004, and the
initial findings are presented here below. One key finding was that improved financial management
would contribute directly to improvedprospects for economic development, thus giving the CFAA a
robust role infeeding the Bank's developmental strategy for Bolivia.
127.      The legal framework governing Bolivia's PFM, built around the 1990 law for financial
administration (SAFCO), can be considered sound.23 This law was designed to promote
transparency and efficiency in the public sector, and specific regulations were later promulgated to
define specific sub-systems (e.g. programming of operations, administrative organization, budgeting,
administration of goods and services, etc.). While specific regulations can be further updated to
reflect more accurately present day businesspractices, the framework i s nonethelessstrong.
128.      The driving motivation to implement the Integrated Financial and Administration System
(SIGMA) was to create a single integrated system designed to administer, manage and report on



**The first Bolivia CFAA was completed in 1999.

23 In addition to the SAFCO Law, the laws of Popular Participation and Decentralization are important pillars of the
  modemization of the legal framework. These laws have established the relationship between govemment and civil
  society anddispersedpower from central administrationto the departmentaland municipal levels.



                                                      41

public sector expenditure. This effort also aimed to standardize and simplify public financial
administrative procedures through improving the budget process, eliminating the application of
discretion with respect to payments, and promoting a results oriented public administration. The
implementation of SIGMA has improved public financial management in the central government.
SIGMA has established a method of real-time transaction and expenditure registration, standardized
presentation of central government financial information, eliminated a degree of discretion in
expenditure management, and introduced tools for planning, programming and monitoring of public
expenditures.
129.      The Contraloria de la Repu'blica (CGR) meets the criteria of being a national audit body
that i s independent of the executive, providing timely reports for the legislature and the public on the
financial integrity of government accounts. As a result of the peer review assessment of June 2002,
the CGR was the first public entity in Bolivia and the only Supreme Audit Institution                 24  in Latin
America to receive the IS0 9002/94 ~ertification.2~However, the lack of permanent leadership
undermines the credibility and authority of the CGR within government.
130.      Despite these advances, there i s a strong culture of informality that pervades public sector
management. Additionally, for the budget to be an effective tool for public sector management,
there are two prerequisites: first, a budget needs to reflect accurately the actions planned by
government; and second, information systems should provide timely feedback to decision makers.
Further issues include:

     0    There are still a great number of variations, reallocations and adjustments without proper
          authorization, and the budget does not provide resources in a predictable or transparent
          manner.      As such, current expenditure management practice allows for unrestrained
          opportunistic spending and allows government to use budgets as a flexible medium to
          accommodate shiftingpreferencesof coalition partners and interest groups.26

          SIGMA needs to be rolled out to the entire central government, notjust the limited segment
          that currently uses it. This would include prefectures, state owned enterprises and the
          appropriate decentralized governments.

          The analysis of internal oversight2' demonstrates that it i s necessary to focus on the
          compliance of rules and regulations. It is also important to take into account the strong level
          of resistanceto implementing the necessary culture change that would reduce informality in
          the oversight environment.

     0    The financial management framework for municipalities is generally appropriate. However,
          important weaknesses persist in implementation. The main shortcomings in accounting and
          financial reporting relate to a lack of capacity to generate financial information and the lack
          of knowledge of statutory requirements. Additionally, at the municipal level, there are basic




24 The Govemment Audit Standards are consistent with the pronouncements of the National Audit and Accounting
  Technical Counsel of the Bolivian Professional Accounting and Auditing Association and other relevant international
  auditorganisms.

25 I S 0 is a network of national standards institutes from 148 countries working in partnership with international
  organizations, governments, industry,business andconsumer representatives.

26 IGRWorld Bank, 2000, Vol. 1p.32; Bolivia PublicExpenditureReview2004.

27 SAYCO Audits. According to CGR reports, in 2001 and 2002, only about 25% of the recommendationshave been
  implemented.



                                                      42

          weaknesses in the control environment, particularly with regard to internal controls and
          internal audit?'
 131.    The final CFAA will include a detailed action plan to address these and other issues, which
will have been discussed with the Government and other major stakeholders. That action plan will
need to address not only technical issues related to the government's systems, practices and
accountability arrangements, but also the attitudinal changes neededto ensure that the government's
processes are implemented fully and accurately. While details of the action plan are still to be
developed, activities to be includedare: (i)    rationalize the budget formulation process to ensure more
realistic planning of both revenues and expenditures; (ii)fully implement SIGMA throughout the
central government, as well as all prefectures and the 15 largest municipalities; and (iii)               improve
public expenditure management through the consistent application of government financial
management rules and regulations. The second andor third phases of this SSPSAC series may
support progress madeinthis action plan.
 132.    A prerequisite of the proposed reform is the commitment of senior level of government to
implement the necessarychange to the public sector culture. To this end, the President has recently
issued two important pieces of legislation: the "Proyecto de Ley de Transparencia" (Supreme
Decree No. 27329) and the "Proyecto de Ley de Acceso a la Informacidn". These two bills, which
were developed in consultation with civil society, aim not only to improve the frequency and quality
of public sector financial reporting, but to also ensure full public access to government financial data.
133.     These actions signal that the government, from the highest level, is taking a more proactive
approach to make the government's activities more visible. To further support the Government's
efforts, support will needto be provided to the newly createdInter-Agency Peer Review Board. This
Board serves to help public agencies improve internal oversight and governance/accountability
practices. The Board could also serve as the forum to review and implement internal audit reports
findingsand recommendations.
134.     Additionally, support should be provided at the sector level, particularly through coordinated
donor efforts, that pays particular attention to the application of rules and regulations for expenditure
management (from planning to execution to monitoring and evaluation). With the current desire to
develop SWAps, compliance with existing frameworks should be closely monitored and funding
should be earmarkedto assist sector ministries with budget implementation.
F.       BenefitsandRisks

135.     Benefits. First, this SSPSAC will contribute to guaranteeing the provision of social services
to vulnerable groups of the populationin a time of fiscal constraints and help the Government be in a
better position to reach the MDGs once the immediate economic and political difficulties are
overcome. Second, it will maintain the Government's focus on the social sectors and the MDGs in a
context where the National Dialogue priorities have shifted mostly towards pro-poor growth. Third,
by supporting reforms that link the national discourse on MDGs to concrete policy actions at the
local (municipal) level, the SSPSAC i s expected to lead to a reduction in disparities in key social
outcomes between regions, ethnic groups and socio-economic classes. Lastly, the SSPSAC should
help support donor cooperation and contribute to future joint efforts in better supporting Bolivia in
advancing its human development agenda.
136.     Risks. Three different levels of risks facing this project can be identified: country risks,
implementation risks, and design risks.           Country risks were highlighted in the recent CAS



28 Within the limited scope of the 2004 CFAA, a small number of municipalities were visited, including La Paz, Santa
  Cruz, Cochabamba, andTarija.



                                                     43

presentation and could hamper adequate implementation of this SSPSACs series. These risks
include: (i) still fragile political situation and latent potential for social unrest; (ii) delicate
             the                                                                            the
fiscal situation, which could require additional substantial cuts in all public expenditures and
investments and detract attention from the social sectors; (iii)  the weak implementation capacity of
different levels of government, aggravated by the difficulty of retaining key staff neededfor proper
policy implementation; and (iv) the uncertain outcomes of the National Dialogue, the hydrocarbons
law, the gas referendum and the Constitutional Assembly.
137.    The risk derived from the legislative agenda and its relation with the political and social
situation can not be underestimated. Inparticular, the current debates and expected outcomes on the
hydrocarbons law and the gas referendum could both influence the social and political climate and
affect the extent of the Government's effort needed to assure debt sustainability and address the
fiscal deficit. Inthe mediumterm, the Constitutional Assembly could have a similar impact. The
ability of the administration to handle this situation is key to ensure a positive environment for the
economy and for progress inthe social areas.
138.    Implementation risks for this series of SSPSACs are mostly derived from the country's risks.
Specific risks are related to: (i)stakeholder resistance to new policies (e.g. to the new financing and
technical assistancearrangements for the water and sanitation sector or to a human resources policy
in the health sector); (ii) of progress in key participatory processes (such is the case in the
                            lack
education sector) or (iii)institutional weaknesses. Overall, the implementation risks apply to those
policies and actions included as benchmarks to move forward with the secondandthirdphases of the
program, since for the first Credit policy actions will be complied with prior to Board presentation.
If the risks of moving towards the second and/or third phases materialize and hinder planned
program implementation, the expected returns from the actions supported through the first Credit
will diminish. However, mitigating actions have been considered and are being put in effect, such as
providing for ample participation from citizens and the international community, securing needed
technical assistance for specific tasks and strengthening monitoring and evaluation capacity.
139.    Finally, there is a design risk that the actions proposed in this program will not addressed
and overcome the key obstaclesto reaching the MDGs. The programmay be overlookingkey policy
actions needed to accelerate progress, or including others that may not contribute much towards
progress on the social agenda. This design risk has been carefully addressed during preparation by
the Government and the project preparation team through a detailed discussion on how to reach the
best combination between (a) current knowledge on best approaches to achieving the desired social
outcomes and (b) what i s politically and technically feasible in the current country's context. In
addition, periodic revisions of results obtained will enable to introduce changes as needed.
140.    While the above risks are important, the risk of not supporting at this moment a social
sectors programinBoliviacould have even more serious implications.




                                                 44

                           Annex 1. Letter of Development Policy



                                   CARTA DE POLITICA



     Credit0 Programatico de Sectores Sociales (SSPC)

I. Situacion macroecondmica

En la gestion 2003 el crecimiento de las economias de paises desarrollados, la
estabilizacion de las economias latinoamericanas y las bajas tasas de interes en 10s
mercados internacionales, configuraron un context0 externo positivo para el pais. Sin
embargo, internamente, el tenso ambiente politico y social tuvo repercusiones negativas en
varios sectores.

La inflacion anual en 2003 alcanzo a 3.94%. La tasa de inflacion acumulada a septiembre
fue 2.27% per0 10s conflictossociales de octubre y 10s problemas climaticos de fines de afio
determinaron mayores incrementosde precios que explican la tasa anual. Por otra parte, la
recuperacionde las economiasde 10s principalessocios comerciales, en el sector externo,y
una menor demanda de divisas en el Bolsin, en el ambito interno, permitieron reducir el
ritmo de depreciacion del boliviano. La tasa de depreciacion nominalfue de 4.5% y el indice
del tipo de cambio efectivo y real se deprecio 12.4%, llegando a su nivel mas competitivo
desde 1996.

El Product0 lnterno Bruto (PIB) durante el afio 2003 registro una tasa de crecimiento de
2.45% respecto a 2002. Las actividades con mayor incidencia en la variacion del PIB,
fueron: Agricultura, Silvicultura, Caza y Pesca 0.85%; Petroleo Crudo y Gas Natural 0.57%;
Servicios de la Administracion Publica0.50%; e Industria Manufacturera0.45%.

Las actividades economicas con mayor dinamismo fueron: Petroleo Crudo y Gas Natural
11.2%,Agricultura, Silvicultura, Caza y Pesca 5.97%, Servicios de la Administracion Publica
5.44%. Por el contrario, las actividades con desempefio negativo entre 2002 y 2003, fueron:
Construcciony EstablecimientosFinancieros (-1 8.35%) y; Seguros, lnmuebles y Servicios a
las Empresas (-1.33%), que afectaron negativamenteal crecimiento.

Las exportaciones de bienes y servicios crecieron en 21.1% y las importaciones se
redujeron en 8.9%, lo que contribuyo al saldo positivo en las transacciones de bienes y
servicios. En el ambito nacional, la demanda interna se contrajo en 1.27%, principalmente
por la caida de la inversion bruta y por la reducidatasa de crecimiento del consumo privado
respectoa 2002 (0.9%).

Entre 10s factores externos que contribuyeron al comportamiento del PIB destaca la
estabilizacion y recuperacion de la economia de la Republica Argentina y de 10s paises
vecinos en general, asi como el mejoramiento de 10s precios internacionales de 10s
principales productos de exportacion como la soya y 10s minerales. El factor interno que
contribuyo al crecimiento economico se relaciona con 10s resultados de la campafia de
verano, principalmente de la expansion de produccion de soya. Sin embargo, 10s conflictos
sociales de febrero y octubre (este ultimo desemboco en un cambio de gobierno) afectaron
negativamente a la actividad economica en general; el estancamiento de la demanda

                                             45

agregada impidio la recuperacion de la actividad de 10s servicios financieros y de la
construccion, aunque esta ultima tambien se vi0 afectada negativamente por la conclusion
de las obras de construccion del gasoductoYacuiba-RioGrande.

En 2003 el deficit fiscal alcanzo 7.9% del PIB (inferior al 9% del PIB observado en 2002).
Este resultado se debe principalmentea la aplicacion de medidas para contraer el gasto e
incrementar 10s ingresos. Como en 10s ultimos aiios, en 2003, el 4.9% del deficit fiscal se
explicapor el costo de la reformade pensiones.

Por su parte, las entidades financieras orientaron sus esfuerzos a mejorar la cobertura de
riesgos de credito y liquidez. La desintermediacion financiera continuo, aunque en menor
medida que en aiios previos. Los conflictos sociales de febrero y octubre tuvieron efectos
negativosen la liquidezdel sistemafinanciero, aunque se controlaronoportunamente.

La politica monetaria se caracterizo por su prudencia, adecuandose a las condiciones
imperantesen la economia, incidiendo en la liquidez del sistemafinanciero colocando titulos
y ofreciendo servicios remunerados de depositos. Asimismo, mantuvo ventanillas de
creditos a disposicion de las entidadesfinancieras. El BCB apoyo oportunamente la liquidez
del sistemafinanciero a traves de operaciones de reporto y creditos con garantia del Fondo
RAL. En febrero y octubre, el BCB atendio todos 10s requerimientosde liquidez del sistema
financiero, contra colaterales constituidos por titulos publicos y el Fondo RAL y con tasas
elevadas de interes, caracteristicas que permitieron la rapida recuperacion de dichos
prestamos.

La balanza de pagos alcanzo un superavit de $us 77 millones en 2003. Este resultado esta
explicado tanto por una importante reduccion en el deficit en cuenta corriente entre 2002 y
2003 de 4.2% del PIB a 0.3% del PIB, respectivamente, como por el superavit en la cuenta
capital. El deficit en cuenta corriente se redujo por el crecimiento de las exportaciones y la
caida de las importaciones. La cuenta capital, que incluye errores y omisiones, mejoro su
saldo positivo de $us 31.5 millones en 2002 a $us 54.6 millones en 2003. Mayores
prestamos netos al sector publico y una sustancial disminucion de la salida de capitales
permitieron compensar la disminucion de 10s flujos de inversion directa extranjera,
posibilitandoel saldo positivo en esta cuenta.

El saldo nominal de la deuda externa publica alcanzo a $us 5.041 millones en 2003. Este
saldo fue superior en $us 741.3 millones respecto al aiio 2002 y se explica
fundamentalmente por mayores desembolsos recibidos. El alivio total de la deuda alcanzo a
$us 153,4 millones, de 10s cuales $us 119 correspondieron a las iniciativas HlPC I y II. El
monto restantecorrespondioa iniciativasde acreedores bilaterales en el marco del Club de
Parisy la lniciativade Colonia.

Sector fiscal: ingresos tributarios,gastopublico y deficit

Con el objetivo de mantener el equilibrio de las finanzas publicas, el Presupuesto General
de la Nacion- PGN 2003' - establecio como meta un deficit fiscal de 6.5% del PIB que no
logro cumplirse, habiendose concluido la gestion con el 7.9% del PIB, nivel consistente con
la reprogramacion' realizadaa inicios del mes de diciembrede 2003.




'Metade
IAprobado mediate Ley 2449 de 3 de abril de 2003.

        deficit acordada conlamisi6ndel FMIen el mes de diciembrede 2003.


                                                 46

El deficit registrado en 2003 fue menor en 1.Ipuntos porcentuales del PIB con respecto al
observado en la gestion 2002. Esta reduccion es resultado, por un lado, de las medidas de
contraccion del gasto publico3(aplicadas por el Gobierno a inicio de gestion), tales como:
rebaja de la masa salaria14,recortes en el rubro de bienes y servicios; y eliminacion de la
indexacion al dolar de 10s gastos e ingresos publicos5.Por otro lado, el Gobierno promulgo
la Ley que permite el cobro del lmpuesto a las Transacciones a la venta interna de gas
natural, petroleo y sus derivados; aprobo el Codigo Tributario, el Programa Transitorio,
Voluntario y Excepcional (PTVE) para el tratamiento de adeudos tributarios, la
nacionalizacion de vehiculos automotores y otras medidas de caracter tributario6con el
objetivo de incrementar ingresos.

                                                 DeficitGraficodel SPNF
                                                                  1
                                                           Fiscal
                                                    (Como YOdel PIB)
                  -10%
                   -9%
                   -an/,
                   -7%
                   -6%
                   -5%
                   -4%
                   -3%
                   -2%
                   -1%
                    0%



                                          Ejec.02                                     Ejec.03


                                Superhi (Dtfcit)de Pensiones    Superavlt (Dtficit) sin Pensiones
                            "cSuperavit (Dtfcit)con Pensiones


                        Fuente: Elaboradoen base a informacionde la UPF.

La aplicacion de las medidas permitio reducir el deficit fiscal mediante ingresos
extraordinarios,un aumento en donaciones y reducciondel gasto. Sin embargo, el gasto en
pensiones continua siendo carga fiscal significativa7para el Tesoro General de la Nacion,
equivalenteal4.9% del PIB (similar proporcion a la registradaen la gestion anterior).

Para reducir las restriccionesfiscales, el Gobierno acudio a financiamiento externo, inclusive
en condiciones no concesionales, principalmente a traves de creditos de acreedores
multilateralescomo la CorporacionAndina de Fomento (CAF), Banco Mundial (BM) y Banco
lnteramericanode Desarrollo (BID). El financiamiento externo cubrio el 69% del deficit, en
tanto que el financiamiento interno el 31Oh.



 Medidas que heron aprobadas en el PGN2003.

 Enalgunas instituciones deriv6 en la reduccidn de salarios o en el retiro de personal.

 Las rentas e ingresos de 10s jubilados actualmente est& indexados a la Unidad de Fomento a la Vivienda (UFV),que
 se ajusta por inflacidn.
 Medidas que en algunos casos tuvieron retrasos en su implementacidn y, en otros, no se logrd su aprobacidn, por ejemplo, la
ampliacidn del alcance del Impuesto alas Salidas a1Exterior.
'Gastoque  representael 62% del dtficit global del 2003.


                                                            47

En la gestion 2004, el Programa Financier0establecio como meta un deficit fiscal del 6.6%
del PIB, para alcanzarla el Gobierno planteo un programa de austeridad en el Poder
Ejecutivo y la implementacion de dos nuevos tributos temporales (Impuesto a las
Transacciones Financieras-ITF- y el lmpuesto Complementario a 10s Bienes lnmuebles y
Vehiculos Automotores-ICPBIVA). A fines de enero de la presente gestion se promulgo el
Decreto Supremo 27327 que reduce el gasto corriente del Poder Ejecutivo en 5%. Debido
al rechazo del ICPBIVA por parte de la sociedadcivil y el retraso en la aprobaciondel ITF, el
Gobierno vi0 la necesidad de implementar un segundo proceso de Austeridad Fiscal
(Decretos Supremos                   27407 y 27450 de 15 de marzo y 14 de abril de 2004,
respectivamente).

En consecuencia, durante el primer trimestre se registro un nivel inferior al deficit fiscal
programado para este periodo, asi, alcanzo a $us 71.9 millones en comparacion a una
programacion de $us 121.8 millones. Este comportamiento se atribuye a 10s mayores
ingresos por regalias', renta interna y aduanerag e incremento de la recaudacion del
lmpuesto a las Transacciones (IT)" asi como a 10s menores gastos en servicios personales
y en bienesy servicios.

El deficit fiscal en el primer trimestre fue financiado por credit0 extern0 e interno casi en la
misma proporcion. El costo de pensiones continuasiendo uno de 10s rubros de mayor gasto
del Gobierno, a marzo de 2004, este gasto represento $us 88.8 millones (el resultadofiscal
sin gasto de pensionesfue un superavit de $us 10.8 millones).

En conclusion, durante 10s ultimos seis meses el Gobierno realiza esfuerzos para
implementar una politica fiscal orientadaa reducir el gasto publico, incrementar 10s ingresos
a fin de que la brechafiscal se reduzcay permitaalcanzar un nivel deficit similar o inferior al
establecidoa inicios de gestion.
                                                             Grafico 2
                                             Evoluciondel Deficit Fiscal
                                                 (En millonesde dolares)

                        250,OO

                        200 00

                        150.00

                        100,oo

                          50,OO

                           0,oo

                        -50 00
                                                       +Gobierno         Anterior -E-  Gobierno Actual

                    Fuente: Elaborado en base a informacion de la UPF.


 Debido a1incremento de 10s precios intemacionales del petrbleo, en 10s liltimos tres meses.

  Como consecuencia de la aplicacidn del Programa Transitorio Voluntario y Excepcional (PTVE), que permitid
  mayores ingresos extraordinarios por el "perdonazo" y "nacionalizacidn de vehiculos indocumentados".

loElincrementoen la recaudaci6ndel ITes resultado de la promulgacicin de la Ley 2493 de 4 de agostode 2003, mediante la cual se
grava con este impuesto a la venta intema de petrcileo, gas natural y sus derivados.




                                                               48

Acuerdo con el Fondo Monetario lnternacional(FMI)
El acuerdo Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) vigente con el FMI, fue aprobado el 2 de abril de
2003 y vence el 15 de julio de 2004". El 16 de enero de 2004, se Ilevo a cab0 la primera
reunion del Grupo de Apoyo a Bolivia en Washington, cuyo objetivo es lograr apoyo
internacionala 10s esfuerzos del gobierno de Bolivia para estabilizar la situacion economica
y financiera del pais y facilitar el crecimiento sostenido para la reduccion de la pobreza. En
febrero de 2004, una mision del FMI visit6 al pais con el objetivo de lograr un acuerdo sobre
politicasque permitanunatercera revisiony una extensiondel SBA'*.

En el primer trimestre del afio 2004, datos preliminares muestran una mejora en el deficit del
sector ptlblico, con un margen acumulado en el trimestre de $us 100.4 millones. El unico
rubro que muestra desvios negativos al programa es el de reservas internacionales netas,
las cuales muestran una perdida superior a la programada de $us 24,5 millones. Las metas
acumuladas detalladas en el MemorandoTecnico de entendimientobajo el SBA-Ampliacion
2004, contemplan una expansion del financiamiento interno al sector publico de $us 79.7
millones, una expansion de credit0 interno net0 ai SPNF de $us 20.0 millones, y una
gananciade $us 40.0 millonesen las reservas internacionalesnetas.

Escenariosy Perspectivas

El panorama internacional presenta perspectivas alentadoras que podrian traducirse en
mayores oportunidades para el pais. Para2004 se proyectaun crecimiento del PIB de 3.670,
asociado al dinamismo de 10s sectores industrial,agricola y de hidrocarburos. Asimismo, el
deficit fiscal se reduciria de 7.9% del PIB en 2003 a 6.6% en 2004. El incremento esperado
del deficit en cuenta corriente de la balanza de pagos de 0.5% del PIB a 2.5% estaria
asociado al mayor dinamismo de laactividad interna.

La politica monetaria continuara orientada al cumplimiento de su objetivo de estabilidad de
precios y se ha fijado para el 2004 que la inflacion no supere 3.5%. La politica cambiaria se
orientara a mantener un tip0 de cambio real competitivo que favorezca la demanda de
productos de exportacion y proteja a la industria nacional que compite con bienes
importados. Esta orientacion esta condicionada al logro del objetivo primario del BCB, que
es la estabilidad de 10s precios internos.


II.SituacionSocial

La Estrategia Boliviana de Reduccion de la Pobreza (EBRP) aprobada en 2001, establecio
las bases para la lucha contra la pobreza a partir de un marco de accion general, derivado
de 10s resultados del Dialogo 2000, de la definicion de politicas en diferentes sectores y
areas transversales y la identificacion de resultados verificables en el tiempo, de igual
manera, plantea la necesidad de ajustes a su diseiio en funcion de 10s resultados del
seguimientoy evaluacioncontinuos.




l1"IMF Financial Activities -Update April 16, 2004"

  "IMF Staff Statement on Bolivia", PressReleaseNo 04/40,27 de febrero de 2004.


                                                   49

La Ley del Dialog0 2000 define mecanismospara la luchacontra la pobreza, principalmente
norma la distribucion de 10s recursos provenientes del alivio de deuda con criterios de
equidad y la institucionalizacion de espacios para la participacion sociedad civil
(mecanismos de control social).

La transferencia de 10s recursos a 10s gobiernos municipales de acuerdo a criterios de
pobreza es un avance en la medida en que focaliza 10s recursos considerando,
fundamentalmente, la carencia de servicios pljblicos (medida por NBI), esta asignacion
presenta mayor. Por otra parte, la institucionalizacion de mecanismos de participacion
promueve las posibilidades para un seguimiento mas extensivo de 10s avances en la
reduccion de la pobreza, esfuerzo que se complementa con acciones realizadas desde el
Estado y la sociedadcivil, a traves de la difusion e intercambiode informacion.

Los acontecimientos de febrero y octubre de 2003 pusieron en evidencia la exclusion social
que caracteriza la realidad boliviana, ocasionando una profunda crisis del sistema politico
basado 10s acuerdos partidariosque tiene su origen en factores de caracter estructural y no
son coyunturales.

Desde hace varios aAos, 10s grupos sociales excluidos subsisten en condiciones precarias,
con reducidas perspectivasde movilidad social y escasas oportunidades para el desarrollo,
ello explica la acumulacion de tensiones que tuvieron expresion en 10s hechos de violencia
sin precedentes. La poblacion percibio que temas estrategicos nacionales se trataban
privilegiandointereses politicosy no el interesdel pais, aspect0 que se agravo considerando
la insuficiente comunicacion y difusion de informacion hacia la sociedad civil, se
manifestaron expresiones regionales y sectoriales que cuestionaron la unidad nacional, asi
como un amplio rechazoa la falta de respuestasefectivas respectoa la corrupcion.

En este contexto, se produce la sucesion constitucional y asume funciones el Presidente
Carlos Mesa, con la tarea fundamental de restablecer la paz social y dar respuesta a
desafios muy importantes, tales como la definicion del proyecto de gas en base a 10s
resultados de un referendum, modificacion de la Ley de Hidrocarburos y Asamblea
Constituyente,entre 10s principales.

Sin embargo, 10s avances y logros de 10s sectores sociales asi como las reformas
emprendidas desde la decada de 10s aAos noventa constituyen areas de trabajo para
continuar 10s progresosen la provisiony acceso a servicios sociales basicos. Por otra parte,
Bolivia es parte del grupo de naciones que suscribieron la Declaracion de la Cumbre del
Milenio en el aAo 2000, ello determina la priorizacion de acciones orientadas a cumplir las
metas comprometidas en reduccion de la pobreza, salud, educacion y agua y saneamiento
basico.

La agenda social intenta situar como eje de las acciones a las Metas de Desarrollo del
Milenio, asi como a 10s programas orientados a la conformacion de redes de proteccion
social orientadas a atenuar 10s efectos negativos de la crisis economicay social, a traves de
un enfoque de gestion y monitoreo por resultados. Esta propuesta es consistente con 10s
resultados de 10s informes de avance y seguimiento de la EBRP, que plantean una
reformulacionde las intervencionesenfatizandoen la prestacion de servicios sociales.


Si bien la Estrategia establecio un marco para las acciones contra la pobreza, creo
mecanismosinstitucionalesy de asignacion de recursos, sus objetivos se han reforzado por


                                             50

10s compromisos enmarcados en las Metas de Desarrollo del Mileni~'~,como lineas de
focalizacion para la politica social, considerando su caracter estrategico para avanzar hacia
la consolidacion de logros sectoriales y mejorar la eficacia en la implementacion de
intervencionesen salud, educaciony saneamientobasico.

La necesidadde este planteamientosurge ante la insuficientepriorizacionde intervenciones
para la reduccion de la pobreza propuesta en la EBRP (4 areas de intervencion y 42
prioridades de politica social y economica). Esta situacion ha ocasionado la dispersion de
programasde inversion,restandoefectividada las acciones, asimismo, es necesarioasignar
mayor responsabilidada1gobierno central y las prefecturasen la lucha contra la pobreza no
solamente a 10s gobiernos municipales a traves de la asignacion de recursos HlPC II,puesto
que no existe la capacidad institucional necesaria para consolidar programas sectoriales
(particularmenteen 10smunicipiospequefiosdel pais).

Si bien la mayor parte de la inversion publica esta orientada hacia la reduccion de la
pobreza, en 10s terminos actualmente descritos en la EBRP no cuenta con un mecanismo
que garantice la sostenibilidad del financiamiento para fines de operacion, mantenimientoy
reposicion de la inversion en el mediano y largo plazo. Este elemento reduce la posibilidad
de lograr resultados permanentes y genera incertidumbre acerca de la pertinencia de
efectuar gastos de inversion. De acuerdo a esta consideracion, es posible que la
focalizacion de acciones en el area social permita el disefio de mecanismosfinancieros para
asegurar la dotacion de servicios socialesde manerasostenible y con mejoras en la calidad.

En concordancia con la Ley del Dialogo Nacionai, se tiene prevista la implementacion del
Dialogo Bolivia Productiva2004 con el objetivo de plantear politicasde apoyo y foment0 a la
produccion. En la gestion 2003, se conform6 un Directorio en el que participa el Poder
Ejecutivo y Legislativo asi como representaciones de la sociedad civil. Se encuentra en
ejecucion la etapa de Pre-Dialogo,con el objetivo que la sociedad civil elabore Estrategias
ProductivasIntegrales.

Se espera que a la finalizacion del proceso se hayan concertado acciones y politicas de
apoyo a pequefios y medianos productores, comunidades indigenas y campesinas. Las
demandasde la sociedadcivil requierencontar con una oferta ordenaday sistematica desde
el ambito gubernamental, es decir, con una estrategia que incorpore las demandas
productivas y sociales, teniendo en cuenta las restricciones y posibilidades reales de ser
atendidas.

Las perspectivasde mediano plazo se concentran en las transformaciones que modificaran
la estructura politica, economica y social que seran resultado de la                           Asamblea
Constituyente. Sin embargo, en cualquier escenario, la propuestade consolidar 10s avances
en 10s indicadores sociales esta relacionada a la necesidad de priorizar las Metas de
Desarrollo del Milenio como areas estrategicas de intervencion a nivel central,
departamental y municipal.




l3Ademis, ha impulsadoa 10s gobiemos a realizar acciones en las keas de genero y empoderamiento, VIH-SIDA,
 medio ambiente y compromisoparael desarrollo.


                                                 51

111. Credito Programatico Sectores Sociales


El SSPC tiene por objetivo general apoyar al pais durante un period0 de un sever0 ajuste
fiscal y tension social acrecentada a partir de la profundizacion de la crisis economica. El
Credito Programatico permitira presetvar 10s avances de las reformas sociales que se
encuentran en proceso de implementacion desde la anterior decada y asegurar la
incorporacionde programasde proteccionsocial.

Para implementar 10s objetivos estrategicos,se presenta un conjunto de politicas y acciones
especificas relevantes para el fortalecimiento de 10s sectores sociales y el avance en la
consecucion de las Metas de Desarrollodel Milenio; distribuidasen 5 areas de intetvencion:
i) Salud y nutricion, ii) Educacion, iii) Agua y Saneamiento Basico, iv) Redes de proteccion
socialy v) Seguimientoy EvaluacionParticipativade las Metas del Milenio.
El SSPC es financiado por el Banco Mundial (BM) con un monto de $us 25 millones y la
Cooperacion Alemana (a traves de su Cooperacion Financiera, KfW) con un monto de 8
millonesde euros, recursosque podrian incrementarsehasta22 millonesde euros.


3.1 Salud y Nutricion

El Ministerio de Salud y Deportes (MSD) acordo con el Banco Mundial orientar 10s
compromisos del SSPC en cinco areas: i) Fortalecimiento de la gestion municipal de salud
para lograr compromiso local en el logro de las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio; ii)
Fortalecimiento de la Atencion Primaria en Salud (APS) en el Seguro Universal Materno
lnfantil(SUMI)y la incorporaciondel enfoque intercultural; iii) Establecimientode una politica
de recursos humanos en salud privilegiando el primer nivel de atencion; iv) Disminucion de
la desnutricion en menores de 3 atios y mujeres embarazadas y v) Disminucion de la
mortalidadcausada por enfermedadestransmisibles.


Gestionmunicipal orientadaa lograrlas Metasde Desarrollodel Milenio

El logro de las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio en salud sera posible en la medida que 10s
niveles localesasuman un compromiso en la ejecucion de politicas de salud en el marco de
esta iniciativa. Una via para ligar el compromiso asumido por 10s Directorios Locales de
Salud (DILOS) a resultados, es el establecimiento de compromisos de gestion que
contemplen indicadoresy metasvinculadas a las de desarrollo del milenio.

La efectivizacion de compromisos de gestion sera gradual, de manera que en una primera
instancia se aplique el instrumento a un conjunto de municipios priorizados en funcion de
indicadores de impact0 (tasas de mortalidad materno-infantil y desnutricion), proceso
(cobertura de partos institucionales, cuarto control prenatal, cobertura de vacunacion con
pentavalente),enfermedadestransmisibles (chagas, malaria y tuberculosis), oferta (recursos
humanose infraestructura)y demograficos (densidad poblacional,tasa global de fecundidad
y etnia). En una segunda fase, y en funcion a 10s resultados obtenidos con 10s municipios
priorizados,el instrumentosera aplicado al resto de 10s municipios.




                                             52

Atencionprimaria en salud con enfoqueintercultural


El pais cuenta con una trayectoria importante en el disefio y aplicacionde seguros publicos
orientados a grupos vulnerables (madresy nifios), desde el Seguro Nacional de Maternidad
y Nifiez (1996), el Seguro Basico de Salud (1999) hasta el SUMI, implementado a partir de
enero de 2003.

Pese a que la poblacion objetivo de 10stres seguros publicos es basicamente la misma, 10s
primeros contaban con un paquete minimo de prestaciones, en tanto que el SUM1tiende a
ofrecer un mayor numero de prestaciones, con pocas exclusiones. Este elemento tiende a
introducir un desbalance entre la Atencion Primaria de Salud (APS) y la atencion de mayor
complejidad podria repercutir en la sostenibilidad financiera del SUMI. Para evitar estos
potenciales problemas, el SUM1debe contemplar la incorporacionde prestacionesde APS,
entre las cuales estan actividades de promociony prevencion.

Para efectuar la incorporacion de estas prestaciones, es precis0 contar con un estudio de
costos para analizar su pertinencia en 10s municipios priorizados, en principio, e ir
incluyendo al resto posteriormente. Asimismo, el enfoque intercultural sera incorporado en
las politicas del sector para acreditar a medicos y parteras tradicionales en el sistema de
salud y superar las barrerasculturales en el acceso a 10sservicios.

Politica de recursos humanos

Uno de 10s factores mas criticos del sistema de salud boliviano, es la ausencia de una
politica de recursos humanos que permita mejorar la distribucion de 10s profesionales de la
salud entre el area urbana y rural, incrementar su productividad y establecer incentivos
priorizandoel primer nivelde atencion.

El MSD se ha propuesto disefiar una politica de recursos humanos, para lo cual,
implementaraun censo de recursos humanos a nivel nacional que alimentara un sistema de
informacion a actualizarse permanentemente,dado el dinamismo del recurso humano en el
sistema. Asimismo, se elaboraran 10s perfiles profesionales requeridos en el primer nivel de
atenciony en la medicinatradicional.

Nutricionen menores de tres aiios y mujeresembarazadas

A pesar que la evidencia empirica muestra la importancia de la nutricion adecuada en el
quiebre del circulo vicioso de pobreza, sobre todo en menores de 3 afios y mujeres
embarazadas, las politicas nutricionales no han sido priorizadas dentro de la agenda
publica,debidoa la ausenciade liderazgoen el tema. Para superar este problemase creo el
Concejo Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion (CONAN), con el objeto de asumir el rol de
lider en el disefio e implementacionde las politicasde nutriciony seguridadalimentaria.

El Ministerio forma parte del CONAN y tiene como tarea, la identificacion de al menos 25
municipios en riesgo nutricional en menores de 3 afios y mujeres embarazadas, sobre 10s
cuales se disefiara e implementara un plan integral de intervenciones nutricionales
orientadosa disminuir la desnutricioncronica (talldedad) en menores de 3 afios y reducir la
anemia en las mujeres embarazadas.




                                           53

Controlde enfermedadestransmisibles

Las tres endemias responsables de la mayor carga de enfermedad del pais son Chagas,
malaria y tuberculosis. El MSD ha implementado por varios aiios programas nacionales de
prevencion y control de estas endemias, sin embargo, estos han enfrentado dificultades en
su financiamiento y problemas de gestion, que en algunos casos se han traducido en el
retroceso de logros obtenidos en el pasado, como es el cas0 del IPA de malaria. El
programa de Chagas ha obtenido logros importantes, habiendo disminuido la tasa de
infestacion del vector a niveles controlables, de forma que es posible dar inicio a las
intervenciones de curacion de enfermos. El programa de Tuberculosis, el mas antiguo del
MSD, ha implementado la estrategia de Diagnostic0de TratamientoAcortado Directamente
Supervisado (DOTS) en la totalidad de 10s establecimientosde salud de la red de servicios,
con resultadosalentadoresen la curacionde enfermos.

Uno de 10s programas mas costo-efectivos en la reduccion de la mortalidad infantil, es el
Programa Ampliado de lnmunizaciones (PAI), que se encuentra enfrentando serias
dificultades en su financiamiento, debido al us0 inadecuado de 10s recursos que transfieren
las Cajas de Salud al MSD para programas preventivos. Es de vital importancia que el
Gobierno Nacionaldefina una politicade financiamiento sostenible para este programa, que
se plasme en un instrumentolegal para protegerla salud de 10s niAos.

3.2 Educacion


La Reforma Educativa (RE) es un proceso que se inicia en 1995 con el objetivo de mejorar
la calidad, el acceso y permanencia en la educacion basica y formacion profesional con
equidad, a fin de elevar las condiciones de vida y las capacidades productivas y
competitivas de la poblacion. En la primera etapa de ejecucion (1995-2003) la Reforma
priorizo el nivel primario como instrumento de reduccion de la pobreza y porque es la base
del sistema educativo nacional; ademas prepara a 10s beneficiarios para su acceso a una
educacionsecundariay universitariacon calidad.

La RE busca la transformacion global del sistema educativo contemplando, en un proceso
integral, el area pedagogico-curricular y la institucional-administrativa,convirtiendo su
ejecucionen un proceso complejo y de impact0 de medianoo largo plazo.

En la ultima decada, 10s esfuerzos realizados en el sector han mejorado el escenario de la
educacion en Bolivia. Se ha efectuado un mayor gasto del Estado en el sector educativo,
principalmenteen la educacion primaria, logrando incrementar el acceso, la permanenciay
la calidad de este nivel. Sin embargo, a pesar que la RE ha logradodisminuir 10s obstaculos
para acceder a la escuela, lo que se refleja en la disminucion significativa de las tasas de
abandon0 durante la gestion, aun persisten serios problemas en la retencion y asistencia a
la educacion primariade niiios pertenecientes a familias de ingresos bajos, del area rural y
grupos etnicos originarios.

Para el sector educativo, la gestion 2003 se ha constituido en un aAo de transicion entre la
finalizacion de la primera etapa de la ejecucion de la Reforma Educativa (1995-2003) y la
definicion de nuevos lineamientos de politica educativa de la proxima decada. El Ministerio
de Educacion esta trabajando una propuesta de Estrategia de la Educacion Boliviana, la
misma que en su version preliminar, sera puesta en consideracion a las organizaciones de
la sociedadcivil.

                                           54

El Ministerio de Educacion, responde a la necesidad de establecer politicas, objetivos,
estrategias e indicadoresde manera sectorial e integral que permitan mejorar la calidad, el
acceso y la permanenciaen una educacion que promueva el desarrollo humano sostenible,
el ejercicio pleno de derechos humanos y ciudadanos, la cultura democratica y las
capacidades productivas y competitivas de 10s bolivianos y bolivianas, respetando la
identidadculturaly 10svalores eticos con solidaridady reciprocidad.

Este enfoque sectorial de educacion permite: i) Promover la sostenibilidad de las politicas
educativas, por medio de la apropiacion; ii) Mejorar la integralidad e incrementar la
coherencia entre niveles y enfoques al interior de la Reforma; iii) Promover la eficiencia y
desarrollar sinergias en la formulacion y ejecucion de acciones; iv) Asegurar el desarrollo y
articulacion del curriculo en todas las areas, niveles y modalidades y; v) Articular 10s
objetivos de educacion con las estrategias de desarrollonacional.

Para el cumplimiento de la mision y vision del sector, el Ministerio de Educacionplantea 10s
siguientesobjetivos generales:

    1. Consolidar un servicio de calidad en el Sistema Educativo Nacional, estableciendo
        una gestion por resultados.
    2. Mejorar el acceso y permanenciaen el Sistema Educativo Nacional de 10s sectores
        discriminados de la poblacion, promoviendo su inclusion social en condiciones de
        equidad.
    3. Mejorar e incrementar la infraestructura y el equipamiento del Sistema Educativo
        Nacional.
    4. Desarrollar y fortalecer 10s organos de participacion y la corresponsabilidad de la
        sociedaden la educacion, contribuyendoa consolidar la democracia participativa.
    5. Desarrollar y articular un curriculo, bajo normas de calidad reconocidas
        nacionalmente, asegurando la transitabilidad en todas las areas, niveles y
        modalidadesdel Sistema EducativoNacional.
    6. Mejorar la calidad de la formacion inicial y permanente de docentes de todas las
        areas, niveles y modalidades, en el marco de un sistema integrado de educacion
        superior.
    7. Fomentar, rescatar y articular las capacidades de investigacion cientifica, desarrollo
        e innovacion tecnologica, para responder a 10s desafios del desarrollo humano
        sostenible


Las acciones inscritas en el marco del SSPC responden al enfoque de politica sectorial
planteado por el Ministerio que contribuira al logro de 10s objetivos generales y la
implementacionde 10s lineamientosestrategicos.


El primer objetivo busca fortalecer el funcionamiento de 10s consejos educativos como
modelo de participacion permanente, contribuyendo a la institucionalizacion de la
democracia participativaen educacion. Esta premisa responde al cuarto objetivo general del
enfoque de politica sectorial de educacion, con acciones que se pueden sintetizar de la
siguiente manera: i) Creacion y organizacion del funcionamiento del Consejo Nacional de
Educacion (CONED); ii) Elaboracion del reglamento de funcionamiento de las juntas
educativas; iii) Realizacion de la convocatoria al II Congreso Nacional de Educacion y; iv)

                                           55

Elaboracion y aprobacion del Programa Operativo Multianual (POMA) para el periodo 2004
-2008queincorporapoliticasenelmarcodelasMetasdeDesarrollodelMilenio.

El segundo objetivo es asegurar el desarrolloy la articulacion de un curriculoacreditado que
incorpore interculturalidad, formacion ciudadana, competencias productivas y cultura de
investigacion, que se enmarca en el quinto objetivo general del enfoque de politica sectorial
de educacion. Para ello, se ha inscrito la actividad relacionada con la elaboracion y
aprobacion de 10s terminos de referencia para la realizacionde estudios que contribuyan a
la elaboracion del proyectode transformacion del nivel secundario.

En tercer lugar se propone desarrollar una oferta educativa diversa para responder a las
necesidades diferenciadas de la poblacion, logrando que la educacion se convierta en uno
de 10s mecanismos principales de inclusion social. Esta propuesta es consistente con el
segundo objetivo general del enfoque de politicasectorial. Parael logrode este proposito se
ha previsto la definicionde intervencionespara incrementarla permanenciade niAos y niiias
en el sistema educativo nacional.

3.3 Agua y saneamiento

La politica de agua y saneamiento basico (PASB) tiene el objetivo principal de contribuir en
una perspectiva de largo plazo al mejoramiento de las condiciones de higiene y salud de la
poblacion vulnerable que se encuentra asentada principalmente en las areas rurales y
periurbanasdel pais.

Para alcanzar este objetivoel Gobierno se propone incrementar la coberturade 10s servicios
de agua y saneamiento mediante la aplicacion de politicas y estrategias sectoriales que
promuevan una transformacion institucional hacia la equidad, la eficiencia economica, la
eficiencia en la gestion de empresas y el cuidado del medio ambiente. Estas politicas y
estrategias sectoriales se encuentran delineadas en el Plan Nacional de Agua y
Saneamiento (PNAS), cuyos componentes principales son la Reforma lnstitucional (Nueva
Politica Financiera - NPF), el Programa de Modernizacion lnstitucional (PMI) y el
Mecanismolnstitucionalpara la AsistenciaTecnica (FUNDASAB).

La Reforma lnstitucionaltiene como fin garantizar la sostenibilidad de 10s proyectos de agua
y saneamiento y la canalizacion de fondos para la inversion a traves de la implementacion
de la Nueva Politica Financiera (NPF). En este contexto, la NPF permitira aplicar
mecanismostransparentesde financiamientoadecuados a las condiciones de capacidad de
pago de la poblacion, bajo premisas de eficiencia economica y de gestion de las Empresas
Prestadorasde Serviciosde Agua y Saneamiento (EPSAs)

Asimismo, se pretende elevar la eficiencia y calidad de 10s servicios de agua y saneamiento
a traves de la implementacion del Programa de Modernizacion lnstitucional (PMI) que
permitira mejoras en 10s modelos de gestion de 10s servicios (administracion/operacion)de
las empresas de ambito municipal. Bajo un enfoque de oferta para cada EPSA, se otorgara
un financiamiento concesional y condicional para la ejecucion de Planes Integrales de
Desarrollo (PID) de 10s servicios de las empresas que cumplan condiciones minimas de
elegibilidady se sometanal PMI.




                                           56

La ejecucionde la NPFy del PMI requiere promulgar un marco legal e institucional promotor
de eficienciay sostenibilidad en la prestacionde 10s servicios y que principalmenteaumente
la fluidez de la inversiony la transferenciatecnologicaa1 interiordel sector.

A traves del componente de Asistencia Tecnica se pretende promover la participacion
efectiva y eficiente de la comunidad en el proceso de desarrollo como un elemento clave
para la viabilidad y sostenibilidad social del plan. Para tal efecto se ha previsto la creacion
de la FUNDASAB que apoye la transformaciony el mejoramiento institucional integral de 10s
prestadores de 10s servicios de agua y saneamiento (EPSAs) y de 10s Gobiernos
Municipales. En este contexto, 10s roles de la FUNDASABseran: i) apoyar a las EPSAs en
el cumplimientode 10s requisitosde las diferentes etapas establecidas en el PMI, ii) apoyar
al fortalecimiento institucional de 10s operadores y; iii) promover la participacion social
efectiva.

La FUNDASAB, ademas de permitir el desarrollo de capacidades locales para la
identificaciony gestion del ciclo de proyectos, apoyara el fortalecimiento institucional de las
EPSAs, la capacitacion de recursoshumanosy el us0 de tecnologias apropiadas.

La Politica Financiera Sectorial y la FUNDASAB son reformas apoyadas por el Credit0
Programatico- SSPC del BM y KfW que permitiran aprobar recursos para reducir el deficit
fiscal.

El cumplimiento del objetivo sera verificado mediante el Sistema de Informacion Sectorial
que se constituye en un instrumento de planificacion sectorial, para la difusion de las
politicasy normas nacionalesde manera irrestrictay gratuita.

3.4 Red de ProteccionSocial

A partir de 1998 la evolucion positiva de 10s indicadores macroeconomicos se vi0 afectada
por factores externos e internos que ocasionaron una contraccion de la demanda durante
10s ultimosaAos. Este comportamientotuvo su influenciasobre el empleo, es asi que la tasa
de desempleo abierto en el area urbana de Bolivia aumento de 3.12% en 1996 a 8.69% en
2002.

El Gobierno Nacional considera prioridad la creacion de condiciones para reducir la tension
social, a fin de fortalecer la gobernabilidad e impulsar la recuperacion economica, para ello
ha decidido establecer la Red de Proteccion Social como un instrumento de coordinacion y
focalizacionde las intervencionesdel sector publico en beneficiode la poblacionmas pobre.

La Red de Proteccion Social se orienta a integrar la informacion sobre beneficiarios y
programas dirigidos a la poblacion mas vulnerable, ejecutara 10s Programas ya existentes
como el Plan Nacional de Empleo de Emergencia (PLANE) y el Programa de Apoyo a la
NiAez (PAN), asimismo, administrara un nuevo Programa contra la Pobreza y Apoyo a la
Inversion Solidaria (PROPAIS). La Red de Proteccion Social estara bajo la tuicion del
Ministeriode ParticipacionPopular, en la estructuradel Directorio Unicode Fondos (DUF).

Para el mejoramientode las condiciones de vida de las personas pobres hasta el aiio 2015,
todas las politicas que esten dirigidas a este grupo poblacional deberan enmarcarse en el
cumplimientode las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio. Un instrumento para este proposito es


                                             57

la Politica Nacional de Compensacion (PNC) que fue establecida en la Ley del Dialogo
como una politica de Estado que apoya la EBRP y la descentralizacion, a traves del
ordenamientode lastransferenciasa municipios.

Los objetivos de la Red de ProteccionSocial son:

Orientar la polftica de transferencias intergubernamentales hacia el cumplimientode
/as MDM

El Gobierno ha presentado una propuestapara adecuar la PNC hacia una mayor orientacion
de las inversiones municipales ai logro de las Metas del Milenio, a traves de ajustes en el
condicionamientode las transferencias del Gobierno Nacional a 10s municipios del pais. La
propuesta incluye la identificacion de posibles fuentes de financiamiento, asi como la
priorizacion de proyectos que se encuentren direccionados al logro de las Metas de
Desarrollodel Milenio.

Creare implementar un Red de ProteccionSocial

El Gobierno ha creado una Red de Proteccion Social (RPS) con, al menos, las siguientes
caracteristicas: i) Mecanismos de coordinacion de 10s programas organizados en el DUF,
evitando que 10s nuevos programas de la RPS dupliquen las actividades del FPS y el
PLANE, y garantizando que las intervenciones de la RPS Sean compatibles con 10s
principios de la PNC; ii) Una unidad de coordinacion terciarizada de caracter tecnico,
fiscalizada por el DUF; iii) Manuales operativos que incluyen criterios para focalizar las
inversionesy seleccionar 10s proyectos a financiar de manera transparente en las zonas de
mayor pobrezay desempleoy, iv) DiseAo de un registro unico de beneficiarios en base a las
experienciasdel PLANE Iy II.

Mejorar la eficacia del PLANE

A finales de 2001 se implement6 el PLANE con el objetivo de reducir el impact0 de la
disminucion de ingresos por la perdida de empleo en la poblacion mas pobre del pais, a
traves de la creacion de empleo temporal masivo en areas urbanas y rurales, asi como el
apoyo a la ejecucion de inversion publica en el ambito municipal. En su primera fase, el
PLANE se extendio desde noviembre de 2001 a diciembre de 2002, la segunda etapa se
extendio hastadiciembrede 2003 y su tercera etapa hastadiciembre de 2004.

Para la tercera etapa del PLANE (PLANE-Ill) el DUF ha iniciado un proceso de ajuste del
Plan que incluye las siguientes medidas: i) Concentracion de al menos el 70% de la
asignacion de recursos en el programa PES (Programa de Empleo Urbano), ii) Asignacion
de beneficiariosa traves de un sistemaautomatic0 respetandocriterios de sorteo y rotacion,
iii) lmplementacionde un nuevo sistema de informacion que permita tener un mayor control
sobre 10s proyectos y 10s beneficiarios y una mejor asignacion de recursos con base en la
demanda real de empleo; y iv) La implementacion de un esquema de supervision
descentralizado.

3.5 Monitoreoy evaluacion participativosde las Metasde Desarrollodel Milenio

La agenda social pretende reforzar 10s objetivos y acciones de la politica social hacia el
logro de las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio, particularmente en salud, educacion y agua y


                                          58

saneamiento basico. Se plantea un enfoque de gestion y evaluacion por resultados, por ello
las actividades de monitoreo y evaluacion de 10s avances de las Metas constituyen un
instrumento fundamental para la implementacionde accionessectoriales.

Las intervenciones a realizarse en el marco del seguimientode las Metas de Desarrollo del
Milenio incorporan la perspectiva de la oferta de provision de servicios y de la demanda por
parte de 10s usuarios, asimismo, se pretende obtener reportes integrales y transversales,
puesto que se analizaran 10s tres sectores priorizados (salud, educacion y saneamiento
basico).

Por el lado de la oferta, el seguimiento considerara la evolucion de indicadoresde proceso y
resultado asociados a las Metas a traves de la utilizacion de registros administrativos
sectoriales (Sistema de Informacion Educativa - SIE, Sistema Nacional de Informacion en
Salud-SNlS y registrosde proyectosde agua y saneamiento) asicomo de otras fuentes de
informacion,tales como encuestasy censos. Se elaborarananalisis de coberturay aspectos
asociados a la prestacion de 10s servicios publicos de salud, educacion y agua y
saneamientobasico.

Para efectuar el seguimiento y evaluacion desde la perspectiva de la demanda14, se
realizara el relevamiento de informacion que capture la percepcion de 10s usuarios y se
analizaran factores referentes a la calidad, pertinenciay oportunidad de las prestacionesde
10s servicios sociales.

El seguimiento y evaluacion generara capacidades en 10s equipos tecnicos y permitira la
aplicacion de instrumentosmetodologicos adecuados a la realidad del pais. Se espera que
10s resultados de 10s procesos de seguimiento y monitoreo Sean utiles para la
retroalimentacion a 10s sectores, de esta manera sera posible avanzar en el mejoramiento
de la oferta de servicios, en la priorizacion de acciones orientadas al avance de las Metas
del Milenio y en la construccion de alianzas estrategicas para el logro de objetivos
prioritarios.

Los objetivos enmarcados en el SSPC se refieren a: i) Desarrollar la capacidad institucional
para la evaluacion permanente del avance en el logro de 10s principales indicadores
relacionados con las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio, ii) Lograr que la informacion
presupuestaria sobre 10s servicios de educacion, salud, proteccion social y agua y
saneamiento sea publica, accesible, oportuna y entendible, iii) Asegurar una diseminacion
sistematica y promover el acceso a informacion sobre 10s resultados de las intervenciones
publicas para el monitoreode las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio, consolidando un sistema
nacional de informacion estadistica integrado y iv) lncluir la opinion de 10s beneficiarios de
10s programas de educacion, salud y agua y saneamiento en la evaluacion de estos
servicios.

El cumplimientode 10s objetivos propuestos implica la realizacion de actividades orientadas
a la definicionde una estrategiade evaluaciontecnica y multisectorialdel avance en el logro
de las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio, mediante el funcionamiento de un Comite
lnterinstitucional de trabajo que efectue propuestas tecnicas para la definicion de
intervencionessectorialesorientadas al logro de las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio, realice


l4ametodoiogiapropuestaserefierealasLibretas deCalificaciones, alrespecto, debenrealizarselasgestiones para
  L
 la obtenci6n de financiamiento para su implementacibn.


                                                     59

el costeo de las mismas, analice la viabilidad de su implementacion considerando las
politicas sectoriales, proponga alianzas estrategicas con la cooperacion internacional y
sociedad civil y utilice instrumentos estadisticos para simulaciones dinamicas en 10s
sectores.

Por otra parte, se trabajara en una estrategia de recoleccion y difusion de informacion
financiera a nivel municipal, considerando entre otros a 10s recursos HlPC II y se difundira
informacion disponible para la gestion 2003. Adicionalmente, se ha difundido informacion
municipalen lenguaje accesible con indicadoresfinancieros y de cobertura desagregadapor
genero, etnia y otras variables asociadas a las Metas de Desarrollo del Milenio y se
desarrolla la propuesta para el fortalecimiento y sostenimiento financier0 del Consejo
lnterinstitucional de Seguimiento y Evaluacion de la EBRP (CISE), asimismo, se incorporo
a1 Mecanismo Nacional de Control Social al mencionado Consejo, mediante una
modificaciondel Decreto Supremo26424 de 1ro. de diciembre de 2001 por el cual se crea el
CISE a traves del DecretoSupremo27176 de 15de septiembre de 2003.

Con respecto a la evaluacion participativa que recoja las opiniones de 10s usuarios de
programas sociales, se ha previsto iniciar el proceso con 10s sectores de Salud, Educacion
y, Agua y Saneamiento Basico. Para est0 se ha trazado una ruta critica consistente en: i)
Lograr un Acuerdo Interministerial con respecto a1 tema de la evaluacion participativa de
programas sociales seleccionados, ii) Desarrollar una metodologia para el seguimiento y
evaluacion participativabasada en el concept0 de Libretasde Calificaciones, iii) Elaborar las
boletasy realizarel trabajo de campo y iv) Procesar, publicary difundir 10s resultados.




                                          60

                      Annex 1. Letter of Development Policy (Translation)
             Social SectorsProgrammaticStructural Adjustment Credit (SSPSAC)


                                   I.MacroeconomicSituation


Infiscal year 2003 thegrowthoftheeconomiesofdevelopedcountries, the stabilization ofLatin
American economies, and low interest rates in the international markets shaped a positive
external context for the country. However, internally, the tense political and social environment
had a negative impact on several sectors.
Annual inflation reached 3.94% in 2003. The cumulative inflation rate in September was 2.27%,
but the social conflicts of October and the climatic problems at the end of the year produced
greater price increases that account for the annual rate. Furthermore, the upturn of the economies
of the main commercial partners in the external sector, and lower demands for foreign exchange
in the internal market, the Bolsin, helped reduce the depreciation rate of the Bolivian peso. The
nominal depreciation rate was 4.5% and the index of the effective and real exchange rate
depreciated by 12.4%, reaching its most competitive level since 1996.
The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) during2003 registered a growth rate of 2.45% with regard to
2002. The activities with greater incidence in the variation of the GDP were: Agriculture,
Forestry, Game and Fishing, 0.85%; Crude Oil and Natural Gas, 0.57%; Public Administration
services, 0.50%; and Manufacturing Industry,0.45%.
The business activities with greater growth were: Crude Oil and Natural Gas, 11.2%, Agriculture,
Forestry, Game and Fishing, 5.97%, Public Administration Services, 5.44%. On the other hand,
the activities with negative performances between 2002 and 2003 were: Construction and
Financial Entities (-18.35%); and Insurance, Real Estate, and Services to enterprises (-1.33%),
which negatively affected the growth rate.
Exports of goods and services grew by 21.1% and imports were reduced by 8.9%, contributing to
a positive balance inthe transactions of goods and services. At the national level, internal demand
contracted by 1.27%, mainly due to the fall of gross investment and reduced private consumption
growth rate with respectto 2002 (0.9%).
Among the external factors contributing to GDP performance are political stabilization and the
upturn of the economy of Argentina and of neighboring countries in general, as well as
improvement of internationalprices of the main export products such as soybeans and minerals.
The internal factor that contributed to economic growth is related to the results of the summer
campaign, mainly the expansion of soybeanproduction. However, the social conflicts of February
and October (the latter ending in a change of government) generally affected negatively the
business activity; the stagnation of the aggregate demand stalled the recovery of the financial
services and of the construction activity, although the latter also was negatively affected by the
conclusion of the construction works of the Yacuiba-Rio Grande gas pipeline.
In2003 the fiscal deficit reached7.9% of GDP (lower thanthe 9% of GDP observed in2002).
This result is mainly due to the application of measures to tighten expenditures and increase
revenues. As in recent years, in 2003, 4.9% of the fiscal deficit i s explained by the cost of the
pension reform.
In turn, the financial entities targeted their efforts in improving the coverage of credit and
liquidity risks.Financial disintermediation continued, although to a lesser extent than in previous
years. The social conflicts of February and October had negative effects on the liquidity of the
financial system, although they were controlled on a timely basis.

                                              61

The monetary policy was characterizedby its prudence, adapting to the prevailingconditions in the
economy, affecting the liquidity of the financial system by placing titles and offering remunerated
deposit services. Furthermore, it maintained credit windows at the disposal of the financial entities.
The BCB supported the liquidity of the financial system on a timely basis through swap operations
and guaranteed credits from the RAL Fund. InFebruary and October, the BCB met all the liquidity
requirements of the financial system, against collateral constituted with public titles and the RAL
Fundandwith highinterest rates, which allowedthe fast recovery of these loans.
The balance of payments had a surplus of US$ 77 million in 2003. This result i s explained both
by an important reduction in the current account deficit between 2002 and 2003 from 4.2% of
GDP to 0.3% of GDP, respectively, and by the surplus in the capital account. The current account
deficit was reduced by the growth in exports and the fall of imports. The capital account, which
includes errors and omissions, improved its positive balance from US$ 31,5 million in 2002 to
US$ 54,6 million in 2003. Greater net loans to the public sector and a substantial reduction in
capital flight made it possible to compensate the reduction of direct foreign investment flows,
makingpossible the positive balanceinthis account.
The nominal balance of the public foreign debt reached US$ 5,041 million in 2003. This balance
was higher by US$ 741.3 million with respect to 2002 and i s basically explained by the larger
disbursements received. Total debt relief reached US$ 153.4 million, of which US$ 119 million
corresponded to the HIPC Iand I1initiatives. The remaining amount corresponded to bilateral
creditor initiatives within the framework of the Club of Paris and the Colonia Initiative.
                        Fiscal Sector: Tax Revenues, Public Spending, and Deficit
With the objective of maintaining the balance of public finances, the General Budget of the
Nation-PGN          200315+stablished a fiscal deficit goal of 6.5% of the GDP that could not be
achieved, concluding the fiscal year with 7.9% of the GDP, a level consistent with the
reprogra"ing16          camed out at the beginningof December 2003.
The deficit registered in 2003 was smaller by 1.1percentage points of the GDP with respect to
that of 2002. This reduction i s the result of, on the one hand, the reduction measures on public
spending17(applied by the Government at the beginningof the fiscal year), such as: reduced wage
bi11,18 cuts in the goods and services category; and elimination of dollar indexing of public
expenditures and revenue^.'^ On the other hand, the Government approved the law that allows the
collection of the Transactions Tax to domestic sales of natural gas, oil, and its byproducts; it
approved the Tax Code, the Temporary, Voluntary and Extraordinary Program (PTVE, in
Spanish) for payment of unpaid taxes, the nationalization of motor vehicles and other tax-related
measures2' with the objective of increasing revenues.




l5ApprovedthroughLaw 2449 of April 3,2003.

l6Deficit goal agreeduponwith the IMFmissioninDecember2003.

l7These measureswere approvedinthePGN2003.

l8 someinstitutionsitresultedinsalaryreductionsorstaffretirement.
  In

  The revenues and income of retirees are currently indexedto the HousingPromotionUnit (HPU), which i s adjusted
  for inflation.

  Insome cases these measures suffered delays in their implementationand, in others, their approval was not accomplished, for
example, the expansion inthe scope of the Exit Tax.


                                                         62


                                                                                                             1
I , (  ,I           -.          .                -   . -       - .        -  . .......          "




.',,   !1


!,:    ,'I



'     i'li                                                                                                   !

  .>< lil



    1 ti.'                                                                                               7L.?5
                __     Nov 02/03
                            __    O w 102/03             Jan 03104                    03/04    ..-..Mar -
                                                                                                       03 04 .
  t ,,      Ocr 02/03
      ] )    . .     ..    .          ,,,,,,,."""l."l"".......      ..... .. ~F.&". .. .
                                                              "1" ~~
                                                                 "                   ~  ^^^   ~      -. ... .

                                      Scenarios andProjections
The international scene presents encouraging prospects that could result in greater opportunities
for the country. A GDP growth of 3.6% is projected for 2004, associated with optimism in the
industrial, agricultural, and hydrocarbons sectors. Furthermore, the fiscal deficit would be
reduced from 7.9% of the GDP in 2003 to 6.6% in 2004. The expected increase in the current
account deficit in the balance of payments from 0.5% of the GDP to 2.5% would be associatedto
the greater productivity of the internal activity.
The monetary policy will continue to be focused on the achievement of its price stability
objective and the inflation rate should not exceed 3.5% in 2004. The exchange rate policy will be
aimed at maintaining a competitive real exchange rate that favors the demand for export products
and protects the national industry that competes with imported goods. This course i s conditioned
on the achievement of the BCB's primary objective, that is, the stability of domestic prices.
11.Social Situation
The Bolivian Poverty Reduction Strategy (EBRP, in Spanish) approved in 2001 laid the
foundations for the fight against poverty, based on a general action framework derived from the
results of the Dialogue 2000, the definition of policies in different sectors and transversal areas,
and the identification of verifiable results over time; likewise, it indicated the need for
adjustments to its design basedon the results from continuous monitoring and evaluation.
The Dialogue 2000 Law defines mechanismsfor the fight against poverty, inparticular regulating
the distribution of resources from the debt relief with criteria based on equity and the
institutionalization of spaces for the participationof civil society (social control mechanisms).
The transfer of resources to the municipal governments based on poverty criteria shows progress,
to the extent that it targets the resources considering, basically, the lack of public services
(measured by unmet basic needs). Furthermore, the institutionalization of participatory
mechanisms promotes the probability for more extensive monitoring of the advances made in
poverty reduction. This effort i s complemented with activities carried out by the State and civil
society, through the dissemination and exchangeof information.
The events of February and October 2003 showed the social exclusion that characterizes the
Bolivian reality, causing a profound crisis of the political system based on partisan agreements
that have their origin in structural rather than short-term factors.
Since various years ago, the excluded social groups have been subsisting under precarious
conditions, with reduced prospects for social mobility and limited development opportunities,
which explains the buildupof tensions leading to unprecedented social violence. The population
perceived that national strategic issues were being dealt by giving special importance to political
interests and not to the national interest. This perception was exacerbated by insufficient
communication and dissemination of information to civil society, leading to regional and sectoral
concernsthat questioned the national unity, as well as to a broadrejection to the lack of effective
responses against corruption.
In this context, the constitutional succession took place and President Carlos Mesa assumed
power with the fundamental task of reestablishing social peace and responding to very serious
challenges, such as the definition of the gas project on the basis of the results of a national
referendum, the modification of the Hydrocarbons Law and the Constitutional Assembly, among
the most important ones.
However, the progress and achievements of the social sectors, as well as the reforms undertaken
in the 1990s,constitute areas of work to continue advancing inthe provision and access to basic
social services. Furthermore, Bolivia is part of the group of nations that signed the Declaration of


                                                 65

 the Millennium Summit in 2000, which calls for prioritizing actions aimed at meeting the goals
 related to poverty reduction, health, education and water andbasic sanitation.
 The social agenda attempts to place the emphasis on actions to achieve the Millennium
 Development Goals, as well as on programs aimed at the creation of social protection networks to
 mitigate the negative effects of the economic and social crisis, through a management and
 monitoring-by-results approach. This proposal i s consistent with the results of progress and
 monitoring reports of the EBRP, which propose a reformulation of the interventions focusing on
the delivery of social services.
Although the Strategy established a framework for actions against poverty and created
institutional and resource allocation mechanisms, its objectives have been strengthened by the
commitments framed in the MillenniumDevelopment Goals" as a means for focusing on the
social policy, considering its strategic nature to advance toward the consolidation of sectoral
achievements and to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of interventions in health,
education, and basic sanitation.
The need for this proposal arises in light of the insufficient prioritization of poverty reduction
interventions in the EBRP (4 areas of intervention and 42 social and economic policy priorities).
This situation has caused the dispersion of investment programs anddiminished the effectiveness
of the actions.        Furthermore, it i s necessary to assign greater responsibility to the central
government and the prefectures in the fight against poverty, and not only to the municipal
governments through the assignment of H P C 11resources, since the necessary institutional
capacity for consolidating sectoral programs i s lacking (particularly in the country's small
municipalities).
Although most of the public investment i s aimed at poverty reduction under the terms currently
described in the EBRP, there i s no mechanism to guarantee the medium and long term financing
sustainability for the operation, maintenance, and replenishment of the investments. This element
reduces the possibility of achieving permanent results and generates uncertainty concerning the
relevance of investment expenditures. On this basis, it i s possible that the targeting of actions in
the social sector may allow the design of financial mechanisms to ensure the provision of social
services ina sustainablemanner and with quality improvements.
Inaccordance with the National Dialogue Law, the implementation of the Bolivia Productive
Dialogue 2004 i s being planned to propose policies that support and promote productivity. In
fiscal year 2003, a Board was established with the participation of the Executive and Legislative
Branches, as well as representatives from civil society, whose representatives are developing
Comprehensive Productive Strategiesinthe Pre-Dialogue stage currently underway.
It is expected that, by the conclusion of the process, support actions and policies will have been
agreed for small and medium enterprises, indigenous communities and farmers. Civil society
demands need to have an organized and systematic supply from the governmental side, that is, a
strategy that incorporates the productive and social demands, taking into account the limitations
andrealpossibilities of meetingthem.
The medium-term prospects concentrate on the transformations that will modify the political,
economic, and social structure resulting from the Constitutional Assembly. However, in any
scenario, the proposal to consolidate the advances in the social indicators i s related to the need to
prioritize the Millennium Development Goals as strategic intervention areas at the central,
departmental, and municipal levels.



27 Furthermore, it has promptedthe govemments to carry out actions in the areas of gender and empowerment, HIV-
  AIDS, theenvironment, andcommitmentto development.


                                                  66

111. SocialSectorsProgrammaticStructural Adjustment Credit
The general objective of the SSPSAC is to support the country during a period of severe fiscal
adjustment and increased social tension since the deepening of the economic crisis. The
Programmatic Credit will make it possible to sustain the progress of the social reforms under
implementationsince the 1990sand to ensurethe incorporationof social protectionprograms.
Inorder to implement the strategic objectives, a set of policies andrelevant specific actions have
been developed to strengthen the social sectors and the progress made in achieving the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals; distributed in five intervention areas, as follow: i)health and
nutrition, ii)education, iii)water and basic sanitation, iv) social protection networks, and v)
monitoring and participatory evaluation of the MillenniumGoals.
The SSPSAC i s financed by the World Bank (IBRD) with US$25 million and the German
Cooperation (through its financial cooperation agency, Kfw) with 8 million Euros (which could
be increasedupto 22 millionEuros).
3.1 Health andNutrition
The Ministryof Health and Sports (MOH) agreed with the World Bank to focus the commitments
of the SSPSAC in five areas: i)strengthening municipal health management to obtain local
commitment in the achievement of Millennium Development Goals; ii)strengthening primary
health care (PHC) under the Maternal and Child Universal Insurance (SUMI) and the
incorporation of an intercultural approach; iii)development of a humanresources policy placing
special emphasis on primary care; iv) reduction of malnutrition in children under 3 and pregnant
women, and v) reduction of mortality causedby communicable diseases.
Municipal Managementaimed at achieving the Millennium Development Goals
Achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in health will be possible to the extent that
local authorities assume the commitment to execute health policies within the framework of this
initiative. One way to tie the commitment of the Local Health Boards (DILOS, in Spanish) to
results i s by establishing management agreements that include indicators and goals linked to
those of the MillenniumDevelopment Goals.
The implementation of management agreements will be gradual, so that at first the instrument
will be applied to a group of municipalities prioritized on the basis of outcome indicators
(maternal and child mortality rates and malnutrition), processes (coverage of institutional
deliveries, fourth prenatal control, vaccination coverage with pentavalent), communicable
diseases (Chagas' disease, malaria and tuberculosis), supply variables (human resources and
infrastructure) and demographic variables (population density, total fertility rate and ethnic
group). In a second phase, and based on the results obtained with the prioritized municipalities,
the instrument will be applied to the remainingmunicipalities.
Primary Health Care with an Intercultural Approach
The country has an important experience in the design and application of public insurance
targeted to vulnerable groups (mothers and children), from the National Maternity and Childhood
Insurance (1996) and the Basic Health Insurance (1999), upto the SUMI, implementedinJanuary
2003.
Despite the fact that the target population of the three public insurance plans i s basically the
same, the first ones consisted of a basic package of benefits, while the S U M I tends to offer a
greater number of benefits, with few exemptions. This element tends to introduce an imbalance
between Primary Health Care (PHC) and more complex health care, and could have an impact on
the financial sustainability of the SUMI. In order to avoid these potential problems, the SUMI



                                             67

should include the incorporation of PHC benefits, among which are healthpromotion and disease
prevention activities.
In order to incorporate these benefits, it is necessary to carry out a cost study to analyze its
relevance in the prioritized municipalities, as a first step, and subsequently include all the
municipalities. Furthermore, the intercultural approach will be incorporated in the sector policies
to certify traditional practitioners and midwives in the health system and overcome the cultural
access barriers to health services.
Human Resources Policy
One of the most critical factors of the Bolivian health system is the absence of a human resources
policy that would allow improving the distribution of health professionals between urban and
rural areas, increasetheir productivity, and establish incentives to prioritize the first levelof care.
The M O H is designing a human resources policy, for which it will carry out a human resources
census at the national level that will feed an information system to be updated on a continuous
basis, given the dynamics of humanresources in the health system. Furthermore, the professional
profiles requiredinthe first level of care andintraditional medicine will be prepared.
Nutrition of Children under 3 and Pregnant Women
Even though the empirical evidence shows the importance of adequate nutrition to break the
vicious cycle of poverty, especially in children under 3 and pregnant women, nutritional policies
have not been prioritized within the public agendadue to the absence of leadership on the subject.
To overcome this problem, the National Food and Nutrition Council (CONAN, in Spanish) was
created, with the objective of assuming the leadership in the design and implementation of the
nutrition andfood security policies.
The Ministry i s a member of the CONAN and its task i s to identify at least 25 municipalities at
nutritional risk for children under 3 and pregnant women, for which a comprehensive plan of
nutritional interventions aimed at diminishingchronic malnutrition (heighdage) in children under
3 andreducing anemia inpregnant women will be designed and implemented.
Communicable Disease Control
The three endemic diseases responsible for the country's greatest burden of disease are Chagas'
disease, malaria, and tuberculosis. The M O H has, during several years, implemented national
programs for the prevention andcontrol of these endemic diseases; however, these programs have
faced financing difficulties and management problems that, in some cases, have represented a
setback of achievements obtained in the past, as in the case of the malaria API. The Chagas'
disease program has achieved important success in diminishingto controllable levels the vector
infestation rate, thus it i s now possible to initiate patient treatment interventions. The
Tuberculosis program, the oldest in the MOH, has implemented the DOTS strategy in all the
health facilities in the health services network, with encouraging results in the treatment of
patients.
One of the most cost-effective programs in the reduction of infant mortality is the Expanded
Immunization Program (EPI), which is presently facing serious financing difficulties due to the
inappropriate use of resources transferred by the Health Funds to the MOH for prevention
programs. It is of critical importance that the National Government defines a policy of sustainable
financing for this program, reflectedina legal instrument to protect the health of children.
3.2 Education
The Educational Reform (ER) i s a process begun in 1995 with the objective of improving the
quality, access, and permanence in basic education and vocational training with equity, and to
improve the living conditions and the productive and competitive capacities of the population. In

                                                68

its first stage of execution (1995-2003), the Reformprioritized the primary education level as an
instrument to reduce poverty and because it i s the foundation of the national education system;
furthermore, it prepares beneficiaries for their access to secondary and university education with
quality.
The ER seeks the global transformation of the educational system within a comprehensive
process that includes the pedagogical-curriculum and institutional-administrative             areas,
converting its execution into a complex processwith mediumor long-term impact.
In the last decade, efforts undertaken in the sector have improved the educational scenario in
Bolivia. The State has made large expenditures in the education sector, mainly in primary
education, increasing its access, permanence, and quality. However, even though the ER has
diminished the obstacles to school access, which i s reflected in the significant reduction of
dropout rates duringthe fiscal year, there are still serious problems in retention and assistance to
primary education of children from low-income families, rural areas, andnative ethnic groups.
For the education sector, fiscal year 2003 has beena transition year between the conclusionof the
first stage of the execution of the Educational Reform (1995-2003) and the definition of new
guidelines for the educational policy for the next decade. The Ministry of Education i s working
on a proposed Bolivian Education Strategy, whose preliminary version will be submitted for
consideration to civil society organizations.
The Ministry of Education responds to the need for establishing sector-wide and comprehensive
policies, objectives, strategies and indicators that make it possible to improve the quality, access
and permanence in an education system that promotes sustainable human development, the full
exercise of human and citizen rights, a democratic culture and the productive and competitive
capacities of Bolivians, respecting the cultural identity and the ethical values with solidarity and
reciprocity.
This sectoral approach to education allows: i)to promote the sustainability of the educational
policies, through ownership; ii)to improve its comprehensivenessand to increasethe consistency
between levels and approaches within the Reform; iii)to promote efficiency and develop
synergies in the formulation and execution of actions; iv) to ensure the development and
coordination of the curriculum in all areas, levels and modalities, and v) to link the education
objectives with the nationaldevelopment strategies.
To comply with the mission and vision of the sector, the Ministry of Education proposes the
following general objectives:
     8. Consolidate quality in the National Educational System, establishing a results-based
         management system.
    9. Improve access and permanencein the National EducationalSystem of the discriminated
         sectors of the population, promotingtheir social inclusion inconditions of equality.
     10. Improve and increase the infrastructure and the equipment of the National Educational
         System.
     11. Develop and strengthen the participatory organizations and the joint responsibility of
         society ineducation, contributingto the consolidationof participatory democracy.
     12. Develop and coordinate a curriculum, under nationally recognized quality standards,
         ensuring its recognition in all areas, levels, and modalities of the National Educational
         System.
    13. Improve the quality of the initialand continuous education of teachers in all areas, levels,
         and modalities, within the framework of an integrated higher education system.


                                               69

    14. Promote, restore, and coordinate the capacities for scientific research, development, and
         technological innovation, to respondto the challenges of sustainable human development.
The actions included within the framework of the SSPSAC respond to the sectoral policy
approach proposed by the Ministry of Education that will contribute to achieve the general
objectives and the implementation of the strategic guidelines.
The first objective tries to strengthen the operation of the educational councils as a permanent
participatory model, contributing to the institutionalization of participatory democracy in
education. This premise responds to the fourth general objective of the education sector policy
approach, with actions that can be summarized as follow: i)creation and organization of the
National Education Council (CONED); ii)preparation of the operational by-laws of the
educational councils; iii)announcement of the IINational Education Congress; and iv)
preparation and approval of the Multi-Year Operational Program (POMA) for the period 2004-
2008, incorporatingpolicies within the framework of the MillenniumDevelopmentGoals.
The second objective is to ensure the development and the coordination of an accredited
curriculum that incorporates cultural diversity, citizen education, productive competencies, and a
research culture, which is framed in the fifth general objective of the education sector policy
approach. To this end, an activity has been addedrelated to the preparation and approval of terms
of reference to perform studies that contribute to the preparation of the transformation project of
the secondary level.
Third, a diverse educational supply will be developed to respondto the differentiatedneeds of the
population, succeeding in making education one of the principal mechanisms of social inclusion.
This proposal i s consistent with the second general objective of the sectoral policy approach. To
achieve this objective, interventions will be defined to increase the permanence of boys and girls
inthe nationaleducational system.
3.3 Water andSanitation
The main objective of the water and basic sanitation policy (PASB) i s to contribute, in a long-
term perspective, to the improvement of the health and hygiene conditions of the vulnerable
population that i s mainly settled in the ruraland peri-urban areas of the country.
To reach this objective, the Government intends to increase the water and sanitation coverage
through the application of sectoral policies that promote an institutional transformation leading
towards equity, economic efficiency, managerial efficiency of water companies and environment
protection. These sector policies are outlined in the National Water and Sanitation Plan (PNAS)
whose principal components are Institutional Reform (New Financial Policy - NFP), the
Institutional Modernization Program (PMI),       and the Institutional Mechanism for Technical
Assistance (FUNDASAB).
The objective of InstitutionalReform i s to guarantee the sustainability of the water and sanitation
projects and the channeling of funds for investment through the implementation of the New
Financing Policy (NFP). In this context, the NFP will make it possible to apply transparent
financing mechanisms appropriate to the payment capabilities of the population, under premises
of economic and managerial efficiency of the Water and Sanitation Services Providers (EPSAs in
Spanish).
Likewise, the efficiency and quality of the water and sanitation services will be enhancedthrough
the implementation of the Institutional Modernization Program (PMI) that will allow
improvements in the management models of the services (administratiodoperation) of the
municipal-based companies. Under a supply approach for each EPSA, concessional and
conditional financing will be provided for the execution of Comprehensive Development Plans



                                               70

(PID) of the servicesprovidedby companiesthat meet minimumeligibility requirements andjoin
the PMI.
The execution of the NFP and PID requires a legal and institutional framework that promotes
efficiency and sustainability in the provision of services and that increases investment flows and
technological transfers within the sector.
The Technical Assistance component aims at promoting the effective and efficient participation
of the community in the development process as a key element for the viability and social
sustainability of the plan. For this purpose, the creation of FUNDASAB has been proposed to
support the transformation and the comprehensive institutional improvement of the water and
sanitation services providers (EPSAs) and of the MunicipalGovernments. Inthis context, the role
of FLTNDASAB would be: i)to support the EPSAs in complying with the requirements of the
different stages established in the PMI; ii)to support the institutional strengthening of the
operators; andiii)to promote effective social participation.
FUNDASAB, besides allowing the development of local capabilities to identify and manage the
project cycle, will support the institutional strengthening of the EPSAs, the training of human
resources, andthe use of appropriate technologies.
The Sectoral Financial Policy and FUNDASAB are reforms supported by the Programmatic
Credit financed by the World Bank and KfW that will make it possible to approve resources to
reduce the fiscal deficit.
The achievement of the objective will be confirmed through the Sector Information System that
becomes a sectoral planning instrument, for the unrestricted and free dissemination of the policies
andnational standards.
3.4 Social Protection Network
Starting in 1998, the positive evolution of the macroeconomic indicators was affected by external
and internal factors that caused, in recent years, a contraction of the demand .This situation had
an impact on employment, thus the rate of open unemployment inBolivia's urban areas increased
from 3.12% in 1996 to 8.69% in2002.
The National Government considers a top priority the creation of conditions leading to a
reduction of social tension, in order to strengthen governance and promote economic recovery.
To this end, it has decided to establish the Social Protection Network as an instrument of
coordination and targeting of the interventions of the public sector to benefit the poorer
population.
The Social Protection Network i s aimed at integrating the information on beneficiaries and
programs targeted to the most vulnerable population, and will carry out already existingprograms
such as the National Plan for Emergency Employment (PLANE) and the Children's Support
Program (PAN). Furthermore, it will run a new Program against Poverty and Support to
Collective Investment (PROPAIS). The Social Protection Network will be under the Ministry of
Citizen Participation, inthe structure of the Single Directory of Funds (DUF).
To improve the living conditions of the poor up to 2015, all policies targeting this population
group must be framed in the achievement of the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. An instrument
for this purpose i s the National Compensation Policy (PNC), that was established inthe Dialogue
Law as a State policy supporting the EBRP and the decentralization, through the definition of
municipaltransfers.
The objectives of the SocialProtectionNetwork are:
Direct the IntergovernmentalTransfer Policy toward the Compliance of the MDG


                                               71

 The Government has submitted a proposal to adapt the PNC towards a greater focus of the
 municipal investments to the achievement of the MillenniumGoals, through adjustments in the
 requirements of the transfers from the National Government to the municipalities. The proposal
 includes the identification of possible sources of financing, as well as the prioritization of projects
that focus on the achievement of the MillenniumDevelopment Goals.
 Create andEstablisha Social Protection Network
The Government has created a Social Protection Network (SPN) with, at least, the following
characteristics: i)coordination mechanisms of existing programs organized in the DUF, avoiding
that new programs in the SPN duplicate activities under FPS and PLANE and guaranteeing that
the SPN interventions are compatible with the PNC principles; ii)an outsourced coordinationunit
of a technical nature, under the oversight of the DUF;iii)operational manuals that include criteria
for targeting the investments and selecting the projects to be financed in a transparent manner in
the areas of greater poverty andunemployment; and iv) design of a single register of beneficiaries
basedon the experiencesof PLANEIand11.
Improve the Efficacy of PLANE
The National Emergency Employment Plan (PLANE) was implemented by the end of 2001 with
the objective of reducingthe impact of income reductiondue to unemployment among the poorer
population of the country, through the creation of massive temporary employment in urban and
ruralareas, as well as to support the execution of public investment inthe municipal areas. Inits
first phase, the PLANE went from November 2001 to December 2002. The second stage was
extended through December 2003 and the third stage through December 2004.
For the third stage of the PLANE(PLANE-III), the DUFhas initiatedan adjustment process of its
Plan that includes the following measures: i)allocation of at least 70% of the resources to the
Urban Employment Program (UEP); ii)assignment of beneficiaries through an automatic system
following drawing and rotation criteria; iii)implementation of a new information system that
makes it possible to have greater control over the projects and the beneficiaries, and better
resource allocation based on the real demand for employment; and iv) implementation of a
decentralized supervision scheme.
3.5 ParticipatoryMonitoring andEvaluation ofthe Millennium Development Goals
The social agenda intends to strengthen the objectives and actions of the social policy toward the
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, particularly in health, education, and water
andsanitation. An approachbasedon managementand evaluation by results is proposed. Because
of this, monitoringand evaluation activities on the progress of the Goals constitute a fundamental
instrument for the implementationof sectoral actions.
The actions to be carried out within the framework of the Millennium Development Goals
incorporate both the perspective of service provision supply and of user demand. Comprehensive
andtransversal reports will be prepared to analyze the three prioritized sectors (health, education,
andbasic sanitation).
On the supply side, monitoring activities will consider the evolution of process indicators and
results associated with the Goals through the use of sectoral administrative records (Educational
Information System-EIS, National Health Information System-NHIS, and records of water and
sanitation projects), and other information sources such as surveys and census. Analyses will be
made of service coverage, as well as of other aspects linked to public services provision inhealth,
education, and water and basic sanitation.




                                               72

To perform monitoring and evaluation activities from the demand side?' information will be
collected capturing the users' opinions on factors related to quality, relevance and timeliness of
the provision of social services.
Monitoring and evaluation activities will generate skills in the technical teams and will make
possible the application of methodological instruments adapted to the reality of the country. It i s
expected that the results of the monitoring and evaluation processes will provide useful feedback
to the sectors. Inthis manner, it will be possible to improve the supply of services, and prioritize
actions aimed at the achievement of the Millennium Goals and the construction of strategic
alliances to achieve the priority objectives.
The objectives framed in the SSPSAC refer to: i)the development of the institutional capability
for permanent evaluation of the progress made in achieving the main indicators related to the
Millennium Development Goals, ii)making the budgetary information on education, health,
social protection and water and sanitation services public, accessible, timely and understandable,
iii)ensuresystematicdisseminationandpromoteaccesstoinformationontheresultsofthepublic
interventions to monitor the MillenniumDevelopment Goals, consolidatinga National Integrated
Statistical Information System; and iv) include the opinion of beneficiaries of education, health,
and water and sanitation programs inthe evaluation of these services.
The achievement of the proposed objectives implies carrying out activities aimed at defining a
technical and multisectoral evaluation strategy for progress made in the achievement of the
Millennium Development Goals. This will be done through an InterinstitutionalWorking Group
that will develop technical proposals for the definition of sectoral interventions geared toward the
achievement of the MillenniumDevelopment Goals, estimate the costs of reaching them, analyze
the viability of their implementation within the context of sectoral policies, propose strategic
partnerships with international cooperation agencies and civil society, and use statistical
instruments for systemdynamic modeling inthe sectors.
Furthermore, a strategy will be developed to collect and disseminate financial information at the
municipal level (including, among others, HIPC I1resources) and the available information for
fiscal year 2003 will be disseminated. In addition, municipal information with financial and
coverage indicators disaggregated by gender, ethnic group, and other variables associated with
the Millennium Development Goals has been disseminated in an understandable way, and the
proposal for the strengthening and financial support of the Interinstitutional Monitoring and
Evaluation Council of the EBRP (CISE) i s being developed. Furthermore, the aforementioned
Council was incorporated into the National Social Control Mechanism through a modification of
Supreme Decree 26424 of December 1, 2001 (that created CISE), through Supreme Decree
27176 of September 15,2003.
With respectto the participatoryevaluation to collect the opinions of the users of social programs,
this process will be initiated inthe Health, Education, andWater and Basic Sanitation sectors.To
this end, a criticalpathhas beendesignedconsisting o f i)reachinganInterministerialAgreement
with regard to the participatory evaluation of selected social programs, ii)developing a
methodology for participatory monitoring and evaluation based on the concept of Report Cards,
iii)preparethereportcardsandcarryoutfieldwork;andiv)process,publishanddisseminatethe
results.
                                         Javier CuevasArgote
                                          Minister of Finance


*'The proposedmethodologyrefers to Report Cards; inthis regard, actions must be undertakento seek financingfor its
  implementation.


                                                  13



.-C>

E
8
%






                    Annex 3. Prior SSPSAC-I Actions and SelectedMDGs, Targets and Indicators
                                                                                                                                   MDGIndicator

 MillenniumDevelopmentTargets                                          PriorActioninthe SSPSAC-I                                  1990    Most recent
                                                                                                                                 baseline    year
                      Goal 1: Eradicateextremepoverty and hunger (2015 target =halve1990$1a day poverty andmalnutritionrates)



 Populationbelow $1a day (%)                                                                                                       -__    14.4 (2001)
                                                             Policv Action 5.2: the design of a social protection network (and
                                                             ensuingstrategy).

                                                             Policv Action 5.3: strengthening of PLANE. Indirect effect: it is
 Povertygap at $1 aday (%)                                   expectedthat the adjustmentof the PLANEwill ease the generation         ___
                                                             of temporary employments so as to counteract the adverse effect of           5.4 (2001)

                                                             the economic crisisonthe poorest.

 Percentage share of income or consumption held by
poorest20%                                                                                                                           ___   4 (2001)




 Prevalenceof childmalnutrition (% of childrenunder 5) Policv Action 2.4: The Government has identified at least 25                11.1   14.9 (1995) .
                                                             municipalitiesinasituationof nutritional risk for children aged 3 or
                                                             less andpregnantwomen.



 Population below minimum level of dietary energy                                                                                    26   23(2001)
 consumption(%)

                                       Goal 2: Achieve universalprimary education (2015 target =net enrollment to 100)

                                                             Policv Action 3.1.4: The Ministry of Education has presented its
 Net primary                 ratio (% Of        agegroup)    multiannual plan (POMA) 2004-2008. Indirect effect: the               90,7   96,9 (2001)
                                                             identification of smcific policies in the POMA will help make
                                                             progresstowards tie educaiionMDGs.

 Percentageof cohort reachinggrade 5 (%)                     Policv Action 3.3: The MOH has identified specific actions to
                                                             increasethe rateof retention inthe system.                                    83 (2001)


                                                             _--                                                                   92.6   96.3 (2002)
 Youth literacyrate(% ages 15-24)

                                            Goal3: Promotegender equality (2015 target =education ratio to 100)
 Ratio of Srls to boys in primary and secondary education---                                                                       88.9   97.5 (2001)
 (%)
 Ratioof young literatefemales to males (% ages 15-24)       ---                                                                   92.5    96 (2002)

 Share of women employed in the nonagriculturalsector---                                                                              ..  35.9 (1995)
 (%)
 Proportionof seats held by women in nationalparliament---                                                                            9    12(2002)
 (%)
                                  Goal4: Reducechild mortality (2015 target =reduce 1990under 5 mortality by two-thirds)

                                                             Policv Action 2.1: Performance agreements at the municipal level,
~~




                                                             focused on key outcomes (including infant and maternalindicators)
                                                             intheworst performingmunicipalities.Indirecteffect: the emphasis
 Under5 mortality rate(per 1,000)                            on poor-performing municipalities will help identify specific           122   77 (2002)
                                                             actionsto further progress inthese municipalities.

                                                             Policv Action 2.2.1: The health benefits package of SUM1has been
                                                             strengthenedby including additionalcost effective interventionsfor
 Infant mortality rate(per 1,000 livebirths)                 infants and mothers.                                                     87   54(2003)



 b u n i n t i o n , measles (% of childrenunder 12months)   Policv Action 2.5: The Government has defined a financial policy         53   79 (2001)
                                                             for EPI that assures regular functioning of the Program and
                                                             improved coverage.

                                                                      82

                                      Goal 5: Improve maternalhealth (2015 target =reduce 1990maternalmortality by three-fourths)

                                                                   Policv Action 2.1: Performance agreements at the municipal level,
                                                                   focused on key outcomes (including infantand matemalindicators)
                                                                   inthe worst performingmunicipalities.Indirect effect: the emphasis
                                                                   on poor-performing municipalities will help identify specific
             Matemal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000actions to makeprogress inthese municipalities.
             live births)                                                                                                                         550 (1995)
                                                                   Policv Action 2.2.1: The healthbenefits package of SUM1has been
                                                                   strengthenedby including additionalcost effective interventions for
                                                                   infantsand mothers.

                                                                   Policv Action 2.2.2: Specific actions to promote an intercultural
             Births attendedby skilledhealthstaff (% of total)     approachto healthservice delivery.                                     37.8    42.3 (1995)
                                Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malariaandother diseases(2015 target =halt, and begin to reverse, AIDS, etc.)

             Prevalenceof HIV, female (% ages 15-24)                -__                                                                           0.1 (2001)
             Contraceptiveprevalencerate(% of women ages 15-49) ---                                                                       30      46.9 (1995)

             Numberof childrenorphanedby HIV/ADS                   ___
             Incidenceoftuberculosis (per 100,000 people)          -__                                                                     ..    230.1 (2001)

                                                                   (Note: the SSPSAC-I1benchmarkreflectsaminimumlevel of cases
             Tuberculosiscases detectedunderDOTS (%)               detected andtreated under DOTS in order to assure continuationof        ..     75 (2001)
                                                                   aneffectiveTB nationalprogram.)
                                               Goal 7: Ensureenvironmental sustainability (2015 target =various; see notes)

             Forestarea (% of total landarea)                       ___                                                                   50.4    48.9 (2001)

             Nationallyprotectedareas (% of totallandarea)          -__                                                                    ..     13.9 (2002)

             GDPper unit of energy use (PPP $ per kgoilequivalent)  ---                                                                   4.1      4 (2001)

             C02 emissions(metric tons per capita)                  -__                                                                   0.8     1.4(2001)

             Access to animprovedwater source (% of population)     Policv Actions 4: The revamping of investments and technical          55.3     73 (2003)
                                                                    assistance in the W&S sector seek the improvement of coverage
             Access to improvedsanitation (% of population)         rates in water and sanitation, specially for poor and rural areas. Yd
                                                                    and 3rdSSPSACs includeexpectedoutcomes.                               26.4     41 (2001)

                                          Goal 8: Develop a GlobalPartnership for Development(2015 target = various; see notes)

             Access to securetenure (% of population)               ___
             Youth unemploymentrate (% of total labor force ages 15-__-
             24)                                                                                                                          4.5     6.1 (1995)

             Fixedline andmobiletelephones (per 1,000 people)       ---                                                                   30.2    152.1(2001)

             Personalcomputers(per 1,000 people)                    ___                                                                   2.2     20.5 (2001)

Source: WDI, INE, SNIS, SIE, DHS, MECOVI

Notes:
Goal 1targets: Halve, between 1990and 2015, the proportionof peoplewhose income is less than one dollar a day. Halve, between 1990and 2015, the
proportionof peoplewho suffer from hunger.
Goal2 target: Ensurethat, by 2015, childreneverywhere,boys andgirls alike, will beable to completea full course of primary schooling.
Goal3 target: Eliminategender disparityinprimary andsecondaryeducationpreferably by 2005 andto all levelsof educationnolaterthan2015
Goal4 target: Reduceby two-thirds, between 1990and2015, the under-five mortality rate.
Goal5 target: Reduceby threequarters, between 1990and2015, the matemal mortality ratio.
Goal 6 targets: Have halted by 2015, and begun to reverse, the spread of HIVIAIDS. Have halted by 2015, and begun to reverse, the incidence of
malaria andother major diseases.
Goal7 targets: Integratethe principlesof sustainabledevelopment into country policies and programsand reversethe loss of environmental resources.
Halve, by 2015, the proportionof peoplewithout sustainableaccessto safe drinking water. By 2020, to haveachieveda significantimprovement inthe
lives of at least 100million slumdwellers.
Goal 8 targets: Develop further an open, rule-based, predictable, non-discriminatorytrading and financial system. Address the Special Needs of the
Least DevelopedCountries. Address the SpecialNeedsof landlockedcountries and small island developingstates. Deal comprehensivelywith the debt
problems of developing countries through nationaland internationalmeasures in order to make debt sustainablein the long term. Incooperation with
developing countries, develop and implement strategies for decent and productive work for youth. In cooperation with pharmaceutical companies,
provide access to affordable, essential drugs in developing countries. In cooperation with the private sector, make available the benefits of new
technologies,especially informationandcommunications.


                                                                             83

                           Annex 4. Bolivia's Experience With Results-BasedManagement


Even though Bolivia lacks a results-based management (RBM) system in place, there have been
several years of experience in the setting and tracking of performance targets. The findings of a
UK's Development Strategies report on RBM in Bolivia are revealing.' The report argues that
advances to date with a comprehensive results-based management approach have been limited,
principally becauseof the difficulty of introducing public sector reform into a system where political
patronage remains strong.


There have been several efforts to set and track targets related to development outcomes in the
country. The advances have been most noteworthy inthe health sector, but the focus on developing
a Poverty Reduction Strategy has recently generated a more widespread interest in the setting and
tracking of targets. Inaddition, new groups (particularly within civil society) that have an interest in
looking at results have sprung up. Following i s a synthesis of this experience up to date and the
challenges faced ahead.


Recent Efforts. Bolivia's initial efforts at identifying results and establishing performance targets
began with the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC I)                                        initiative and were later taken up again as a
central part of the progressreview conducted duringthe Consultative Group (CG) meetings in 1998.
The objectives of these CG meetings focused on the design of a comprehensive development planin
which participation of the international donor community was re-oriented towards supporting greater
results-based work in Bolivia. As a result of the CG meetings, performance indicators and target
goals were agreed upon based explicitly on the results of the first National Dialogue, and progress
towards meetingthese targets were reviewed at subsequentCG meetings.


Later, in 2001, the Govemment prepared a Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) that again placed
considerable emphasis on meeting key targets. Drawing upon the lessons from the social unrest of
2000, the PRS placed greater emphasis on improved participatory evaluation mechanisms and
processes. The follow-up to the PRS and the definition of these indicators i s currently being
managed by an inter-institutional government committee (CISE) that is working with the citizen
oversight committees that together make up the Mechanism of Social Control (MSC).


With regardto a focus on results, the development of information systemshas beenimpressive inthe
last few years (a summary of the production of statistical information i s provided inBox 1) and there
has been some progress inelaborating mechanisms to track development results.




1 Carlos Montes-Development Strategies:"Results-BasedPublic Managementin Bolivia". Working Paper 202. February2W3.




                                                                             84

   Box 1 Information SystemsinBolivia
           -
   The production of statistical information in Bolivia is carried out in conjunction with the organizations
   that make up the National System of Statistical Information. The actual production of basic statistical
   information is realized principally by the National Institute of Statistics (INE), the Economic Analysis
   Policy Unit(UDAPE), and the sector ministries. Raw data i s obtained through national censuses, surveys,
   and administrative registers which, in turn, are compiled from health centers, educational units,
   ministries, municipal offices, and some public companies.
   The INE collects and maintains all data sources for poverty reduction efforts. There are two principal
   data sources used for measuring and monitoring poverty in Bolivia: a national census (of which the last
   installment was in 2001) and various household surveys. The national census, carried out approximately
   every ten years, provides data on non-monetary indicators of well-being which is then used for building
   poverty maps and targeting government interventions usingthe concept o f Unmet Basic Needs (NBI). In
   addition to this census, INE has implemented over the years a number o f multi-purpose household
   surveys.
   These surveys are not always comparable due to changes over time inthe questionnaires and the fact that
   some of surveys have only been implemented in large urban areas, making it difficult to establish
   national poverty trends in Bolivia in the 1990s. Some additional information for rural areas is also
   available in two surveys conducted in 1993 and 1997 by Bolivia's social investment fund (Fondo de
   Inversion Social, FIS). But these surveys are not fully representative of rural areas so results should be
   treated with caution.
   Since 1999, Bolivia has participated in the MECOVI (Mejoramiento de las Encuestas y la Medicidn de
   las Condiciones de Vida en Amhica Lutina y el Caribe) program. Among its aims are to improve the
   system of household surveys, improve the use of surveys for poverty targeting, and strengthen the
   institutional capacity of member countries to analyze the survey data for policy and project design. In
   Bolivia, MECOVI assistedINEinits efforts to create an IntegratedSystem of Household Surveys as part
   of the strategy of statistical information to combat poverty.



There have also beenefforts to set and track targets within specific sectors inBolivia. More progress
has been made in the health sector, largely as a result of a strong results-orientation given to the
Bank's Health Sector Reform program, APL-1(credit No. 3244-B0), which emphasized results and
improved accountability by setting out yearly targets for different performance indicators at the
departmental level.


However, the progressmade on supporting activities neededto make a RBMsystem work inBolivia,
and applying it at the local level has been much slower. For example, there is still little connection
between the setting of targets and the preparation of the MOH's Annual Operating Plans, the
budgetary allocations, and the design of externally-financed development programs. One reason
why more progresshas not been achieved is that there i s no clear idea of the precise actions that need
to take place inorder to achieve results.


Causal Links Between Actions and Results. The problem of making explicit the causal links
between actions and results i s not specific to Bolivia. In Bolivia, the World Bank recently started
supporting an initiative to analyze more explicitly how improvementsindifferent indicators mightbe
achieved through a more systematic approach to the analyses of problems, the design of policy
responses and the implementation of priority actions. The national Government, PROCOSI (the
major health NGO) and the Bank are developing operational systems to track targets and monitor
intermediate indicators. Box 2 presents synthesizes progress made so far.



                                                     85

Box 2 Attributing Outcomesto Policy Actions: A SystemDynamics Approach
       -
The World Bank has been helping the government develop a system dynamics approach as a way of
developing rather complex, graphic, structural models of these dynamic relations in a given system
easily and intuitively. A system dynamics approach is particularly useful since a result is rarely due to a
single action. Even in simple cases, results depend on a multitude o f policy actions-each with its own
dynamic path-that    affect outcomes within that system. The approach also allows for the representation
o f the dynamic aspects of feedback effects and time lags in a system and helps avoid the difficulty o f
keeping multiple dynamic relationships in one's head. It also offers important benefits for planning and
for monitoringand evaluation activities.
To date, the national Government, the World Bank andPROCOSI have finished a model that analyzes
the relations between health sector policies and underlying epidemiological risksthat together determine
the prevalence of malaria in the country. The model takes into account the feedback between infected
individuals and the rate of transmission of the disease, as well as the actions undertaken and the
government's planned 2001-05 strategic sector plan, and also tracks the costs and financing needs
contemplated by the plan. Socioeconomic factors that affect, say, the responsesby different groups to a
diagnosis and treatment programcan also be factored into the model. Similarly, exogenous factors that
may affect the outcome, but may not be amenable to public policy, can be incorporated.

Progress has also been made inmodeling the relation between policy actions and infant and maternal
mortality and infectious diseaseoutcomes. Finally, there is an effort underway to analyze the relations
between educational oolicv decisions and outcomes.




                                                 86

                 Annex 5. BoliviaSSPSAC Water andSanitationTechnicalReport
                                                    -

 This annex details the scope of the proposedreforminthe Water and Sanitation Sector inBolivia.
 This reform would be applied within the framework of the new sector financial policy',
 complemented with an institutional sustainability support mechanism (FUNDASAB2).Followingi s
 a description of the main elements of the reform proposed for the sector. First, this annex offers a
 summary of the challenges facing the sector to be addressed by the reform; then, it presents the
 principles, criteria, and expectedresults of the reforms; and, finally, it offers an analysis of its impact
 on the institutions and current legislation.


                            1.TheWater andSanitationChallengesinBolivia




       AREAS4           POPULATION         POPULATION          COVEREDPOPUL.ATION            COVERAGEBY AREA (%)
                            TOTAL                 %            WATER        SEWAGE          WATER           SEWAGE

 L A PAZEL ALTO                 1,508,865                18     1,427,280          972,920     95%             65%
                                                              ~




 SANTA CRUZ                     1,118,103                14     1,023,875          336,849     92%             30%

 COCHABAMBA                      785,693                  9      578,405           358,252     73%             46%

 METROPOLITAN                  3,412,661                41     3,029,560          1,668,021   89%              49%

                                                                                           I           1                  1
'LARGECITES                      967,63 1                12      830,449           536,045     86%             55%

 MIDSIZE CITES                   409,202                  5      356,422

 SMALL CITIES                    379,400                  4      321,918            110,789
                                                                                    76,359     87;             11;

 VSB - KfW, "Propuesta de Poli'tica Financiera para el Sector deAgua Potable y Saneamiento", August 2002.

 VSB - GTZ, "lmplementacio'ndel Programa de Apoyo a la Sostenibilidad - Concept0 de la FUNDASAB (Fundacidn de
 Apoyo a la Sostenibilidad en Saneamiento Bdsico)".

 This water service coverageis only physical and does not necessarily reflect a situationof optimum quality and quantity
 of service.The effectivecoveragerates are certainlylower.

 Major cities are defined as those with more than 100,000 citizens; intermediatecities are those with population in the
 range of 10,000 - 100,000; small cities are those in the rangeof 2,000 - 10,000 inhabitantsand ruralareas are those with
 less than 2,000.


                                                         87

 TOTALNATIONAL




Note: (*) correspondsto ruralsanitation.

Source: created based on 2002 INE Census and VSB - KW, "Propuesta de Politica Financiera para el Sector de Aguu
Potable y Saneamiento", August 2002.



Table 2 presents service coverage and the relative weight of investments made by socio-economic
category. The gap in water and sanitation coverage between the municipalities with lower socio-
economic status and the wealthier ones is, on average, 20%. This situation confirms that the sector
policy and priorities of the lasi two decades have excluded the poorest from services provision,
favoring the higher income strata. This i s further demonstrated by the fact that the poorest segments
of the population (111, IV, and V, which comprise about 50% of the population) have received about
38% of the total investment for the sector, while the other half of the population (above the poverty
line) received 62%.


                   Table 2. Relativecoverageandinvestment by poverty level (2001)

    Category                     COVERAGE(%)                         TotalInvestment
     DUF5                                                                                         Population%
                        WATER                   SEWAGE                         %

        I                  93%                      57%                       36                      30
        11                 85%                     48%                        26                      21
       111                 85%                     45%                         11                      6
       Iv                  87%                     55%
                                                                              27                      43
        V                  73%                     46%




Water quality and health and environmentalrisks. The quality of water for human consumption
and the treatment of wastewater are poor and adversely impact the health of the population and the
environment.       Table 3 shows the treatment level for raw water (for human consumption) and
wastewater. It shows that, for 2001, 65% of the total urban population in Bolivia, roughly 74% of
the population with access to water services, benefited from the treatment of raw water. With
regards to the treatment of wastewater, only 21% of the total urban population, roughly 44% of the
total population with sewage services, was benefiting from the service. Considering the total
population of the country, this percentage represents only 12.8%. The lowest coverage i s in the


'Category Ii s the wealthiestand Category V is the poorest. Categories I11to V are consideredpoor.


                                                        88

largest and smallest cities (8%), followed by intermediate cities (16%). This is a particular problem
in the marginal areas (26% coverage) of cities like La Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz. This
constitutes a serious potential environmental threat given the higher rates of population growth in
this urban settings.


                        Table 3. Treatment coverage of raw water and wastewater




Source: Own elaboration based in the 2001 INE survey and VSB - KfW, "Propuesta de Politica Financiera para el Sector de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento", Agosto del 2002.



Prospectsfor the sustainability of service delivery. There are serious bottle necks in the sector that
affect the sustainability of services provided and an adequate progress in the investments required to
increase coverage. These problems have to do with: (i)               the existence of dispersed service markets
with low payment capacity and on a limited scale; (ii)           operational inefficiency, higher tariff risk and
insufficient financial capacity of providers; and (iii) bottle necks (both legal andinstitutional)
                                                               serious
that limit the flow of funds directly to public andprivate operators.


(i)       Market fragmentation. Currently, there are 166 companies providing water and sanitation
          services (EPSAS) in the country: 37% are municipal and 36% are cooperatives6. Of these
          EPSAS, only 16% (27 companies) have obtained their concessionlicense through the agency
          responsible for basic sanitation (SISAB). For the urban areas, there are 117 municipalities
          and 162 EPSAS. This allows to conclude that there is a marked tendency towards
          fragmentation in the market (proliferation of EPSAS) with negative consequences for
          economic efficiency and service operation.                In practice, this fragmentation limits the
          possibilities for access of each EPSA to quality technological and human resources (due to
          their inability to pay for these).           Similarly, it leads in many cases to operational and
          administrative costs with high impact on the tariffs, thus contributing to a weak institutional
          capacity and a deficient service provision.


(ii)      Insuficientfinancial capacity of providers. The tariff deficit at the national level is roughly
          27%; this implies that, on average, current tariffs can only cover 73% of the total costs. This
          situation i s particularly critical in the largest and intermediate cities (where deficits are 24%
          and 30%, respectively), due to the fact that -according to Law 2066-, these companies must
          cover with tariffs their investment and financial costs.                 These deficits are in part the



 InBolivia, the cooperativesare considered as private companies.



                                                         89

          consequence of the political administration of tariffs and the lack of education of the
          population, but not the result of inability to pay for the services. A study on this latter
          subject concluded that it would be possible to increasetariffs for the population in the upper
          quintiles, though not for those in the lower ones.'           However, the population resists higher
          tariffs due to service deficiencies and a culture that regardspotable water service as free and
          an obligation of the State. This situation limits the capacity of providers to generate their
          own resources and adequately maintain their facilities and mobilize external financing, thus
         creating a vicious and unsustainablecircle. Inoperational terms, the situation of the EPSAS
         i s also critical. The combined result shows losses in the order of 52% in the large cities,
         42% in the mid-size, and 48% in the smaller ones. Among the main reasons behind this
          situation are the lack of autonomy and corporate management of EPSAS, both caused by
         political interference intheir administration.


(iii)    Limitations in the flow of funds to public and private operators. There are legal,
         institutional, and financial restrictions to the flow of resources according to the size of the
         urban centers. as follows:


- For cities with apopulation above 10,000 inhabitants:
     (i)A     mistaken interpretation of Law 2066-to             the effect that all services and providers for
           urban centers above 10,000 inhabitants ought to be financially self-sustainable-has
           restricted FNDR funding to municipalities, thus eliminating the possibility of direct access
           of EPSAS to the FNDR. Consequently, the only option for these water companies is to
           access commercialcredit, very difficult under the present circumstances.
     (ii)Some of the companies have had access to concessional financing through the
           municipalities, but this is an option increasingly less appealing to the mayors, who have
           shown resistance, particularly in the case of cooperatives which they deem self-
           sustainable.* Concessional financing channeled by the FNDR through the municipalities i s
           also severely limited: of the total FNDR portfolio, only 41% corresponds to the sector and
           61% of the portfolio in arrears correspondsto financing of basic sanitation.
     (iii)Private companies, including cooperatives',               cannot receive concessional credit with
           government guarantees, and
     (iv) Grants or transfers from the government are restricted for companies operating in cities
           with more than 10,000 inhabitants. This limitation does not reflect the socioeconomic
           status of the lower income groups, which i s the most populous segment of the populationin
           these cities. Given their low payment capacity, they require investment subsidies, at least
           inthe short andmediumterm.
     - Withregards to cities with less than 10,000 inhabitants and/or ruralareas:
     (v)   Donations are allowed if they are made through the FPS within the framework of the
           National Compensation Policy (PNC). However, there are problems that could limit


 VMSB-KfW:"Propuesta de Politica Financiera en el Sector deAgua y Saneamientode Bolivia".

*Currently,however, some direct financing to EPSAS are beingstudied or are under implementation(Le., the Cochabamba
'Withrare
 caseunderthe IDB).

           exceptions, the situationof the cooperativesis equal or worse than the public EPSAS. Inthe country there is
 only one company which is truly private.


                                                        90

           investments in these cities. On the one hand, PNC allocations are insufficient for carrying
           out the type of projects required by these cities and, on the other, any other type of
           financial aid to the sector, even when not received directly by the municipal governments,
           i s considered a transfer to their jurisdiction and, therefore, discounted from the PNC
           allocation. This measure constitutes a disincentive for mayors to invest in water and
           sanitation and fragments investments by promoting small investments instead of integrated
           ones.


                                  2. Strategy and GovernmentPolicies


The Bolivian government, in its fight against poverty, has prioritized strategies andpolicies aimed at
the fulfillment of the MDGs in water and sanitation. One key factor to attain this objective would be
the application of mechanisms to guarantee a fluid and optimal use of financial resources and
investments, while, at the same time, promotingefficiency and sustainability among providers. This
implies new policies and strategies for investment financing that should promote the institutional
transformation and development of the operators, the implementation of new and improved
management models and secure effective social participation. Following are the main elements of
the new financial policy proposedby the Bolivian Govemment.


Broad Objective of the Financial Policy. The new financial policy's broad objective i s to guarantee
higher coverage and sustainability of water and sanitation investments through the application of
transparent financing mechanisms, adapted to the payment capacity of the population and following
criteriaof economic and managerial efficiency of the EPSAS.


Specific Objectives of the Policy: (i) guarantee access of the sector to adequate sources of
                                           to
investment financing and technical assistance that will, in a flexible manner, rationalize the
allocation of concessional resources to complement the payment capacity of the population; and (ii)
to ensure the sustainability of services through the introduction of new management models that will
allow the aggregation of markets and develop conditions that will ensure the efficiency of EPSAS,
set tariffs which are realistic and socially viable, make rational use of water resources and control
losses, andtake advantage of economies of scale in service provision.


General strategyfor sectorfinancing. The implementation strategy has the following elements:
           take advantage of and rationalize mechanisms and the existing sources of concessional
           financing, such as the municipal transfers, the PNC through allocations based on project
           eligibility (via the FPS) and the national policy of public credit (via the FNDR);
           through PNC and following equity criteria, guarantee access for the poorest groups and
           ruralpopulations to basic services;
           through the FNDR, guarantee a permanent source of investment financing to maintain
           coverage focused on private and public EPSAS that are solvent and efficient, and
           ina complementary manner, establish the National Modernization Program (PMI) so that,
           as a transitional stage and through a policy of specific concessional financing, incentives
           will be created for the adoption of sustainable management models based on principles of
           economic and managerial efficiency.


                                                  91

Strategicactionsfor sectoralfinancing. Three maintypes of sectoral financing have been defined:


1.Financingof basic access to services. This financing will assign priority to rural populations and
those municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. Resources will be provided through transfers
for the co-financing of water and sanitation projects prioritized by the communities and presentedby
the respective mayors to the FPS. Co-financing resources will be transferred to the municipalities in
accordance with equity criteria established by the PNC. Currently, this source of financing already
exists through the FF'S and only needs some improvements of its technical guidelines for project
implementation. It does not require changes in the current legislation.


2. Financingfor the InstitutionalModernization Pro"         (PMI). This source of financing supports a
comprehensive program for restructuring of the sector aimed at overcoming the restrictions to the
sustainability of investments and services. Under a supply approach and on a one time transitional
stage for each EPSA, this source of financing would provide concessional and conditional funding
through credits and/or grants for the implementation of Comprehensive Development Plans (PID) for
service companies that meet minimum conditions for eligibility and who agree to participate in a
program for institutional modernization. The program will establish a series of financial incentives
to reach performance benchmarks and for the setting up of EPSAS on the basis of several
municipalities and/or operators. It is estimated that the programwill last 5 years and that, duringthis
period, the institutional transformation of the sector will take place. At the end of this period, it is
expected that the EPSAS will be prepared to assume normal financial conditions under the third
source of financing describedbelow.


In each case, there will socio-economic and financial studies made to determine the payment
capacity of the population and the corresponding financing conditions, performance and efficiency
benchmarks, and incentives. For the determination of these parameters, a transitional period to set
the tariffs will be considered, whereby the poorest sectors will not have to suffer the impact of the
new tariffs. On the basis of this information, the companies will have to preparetheir PID.


For investment financing, a pool of resources with credits and donations will be established. These
resources will come from the InternationalCooperation and will be managed under the institutional
framework of the DUF. There will be an efficient allocation of pooled resources through the
application of a sector wide financial allocation mechanism (AFS) that will take into account
competitive financing mechanisms and give priority to the populations with the highest index of
poverty. AFS will be complementary to the PNC and be composed of an indicator of payment
capacity and an indicator of investment need. This indicator will allow the classification of
localities, define ranges for the application of different financial conditions, and identify and give
preferentialtreatment to localities with less socio-economic status and a higher degree of need.
Implementation of this source of financing will require the adoption of institutional and financial
mechanisms that do not exist today in the country, which will require various legal instruments for
its establishment, including:

         0   exemption of donations received by the beneficiary EPSAS through PMI from the
             automatic discount inthe allocation of the PNC;




                                                92

              allow the granting of credits and direct transfers to the EPSAS, whether they are public
              or private, without municipal guarantees;
             create and operate a sectoralpool, including AFS;
             allow the FNDR to grant credits directly to the EPSAS in accordance with PMI
             conditions;
             enable the FNDR to combine resources from credits with grants received, whether
             directly by the entity or by the FPS, inaccordance with PMIconditions;
             create and consolidate FUNDASAB (see below); and
             regulate and create instruments for a double guarantee (municipalities and EPSAS) for
             the recovery of loans grantedwithin the PMI.


A key mechanism for implementation of the new financial policy will be the future FUNDASAB,
which will have the following roles: (i)    support the EPSAS in the fulfillment of requirements and
implementation of the various stages established by the PMI; (ii)        support the consolidation and
integration of broader markets and metropolitan areas; (iii) institutional strengthening of the
                                                               support
operators, and (iv) promote an effective social participation inthe sector.


Finally, a critical factor for PMI success will be that the EPSAS have sufficient managerial
autonomy that will allow them to follow entrepreneurial criteria. For this, it is required to take
actions aimed at supporting the institutional capacity and autonomy of public EPSAS through: (i)
stability and de-politization of their directorates and collegiate authorities, (ii)minimization of
interference from the local political levels in their management, (iii)       institutionalization of their
executive levels, and (iv) guaranteeing permanent fiscal controls, agile and efficient with regards to
human resourcesmanagementon the part of the local authorities.


3. Source of Financing to Maintain Service Coverage. This specialized source of financing will
permanently and routinely allocate credit resources in response to the demand and investment
requirements of the EPSAS, once they are consolidated. Resourceswill be channeled to projects that
expand coverage or replace infrastructure in those localities with the low poverty indices and that
already have consolidated and efficient systems. Eligible beneficiaries can be either public or
private companies. Fundingwill be channeled through the FNDR. To put this source of financing
into implementation, it will be necessary to define norms for determining eligibility of the EPSAS,
establish the financial terms, and put into effect the guarantee mechanisms. It i s also necessary to
define the internal guidelines of the FNDR and the current legislation to allow for the granting of
credit directly to the EPSAS and the use of credit guarantee mechanisms from the tariff recovery
trust fund of the EPSAS.


Institutional framework and operational policy. To assure an adequate channeling of resources and
the attainment of the institutional sector objectives, the efforts of several institutions and the creation
of specific mechanisms for their operation will be needed. At the policy formulation level, this
involves the Ministry of Finance (through the Vice-Ministry of Finance), the Ministry of Public
Works (through the Vice-Ministry of Basic Services), the Ministry of the Presidency (through DUF),
and the Ministry of Social Participation (through the Vice-Ministry of Decentralization and
Municipal Development). At this level, a Directorial Committee for the Financing Policy will be


                                                  93

created. This Committee will be conformed by the Vice-Minister of Basic Services (who will preside
it), the Vice-Minister of Decentralization and Municipal Development, a representatives from the
Ministry of Finance, the FNDR and the FPS. The main functions of the Committee include:
     (i) Determinethefinancingrequirementsandtheinvestmentpolicies,
     (ii)DeclaretheeligibilityoftheEPSAS,
     (iii)Approveindividualfinancingoperations,and
     (iv)   Implement an outcome evaluation system.


At the operational level, this new framework will involve several policy implementation agencies,
including:
     (i) FPSandFNDRforchannelingfinancialresources,
     (ii)FUNDASAB,fortechnicalassistanceandsupportforinstitutionalstrengthening,and
     (iii)The sector superintendency (SISAB), for certification of institutionalization and the
            compliance of performance benchmarks.
Policy changes to be introduced by the sector financing and management strategy.                      Table 4
summarizes the expectedchanges.
              Table4. Policychangesinthe financialandmanagementsector strategy
                        From:                                                    To:
 Investmentthat depend on municipal financing        Investments      financed    through    EPSAS,     with
                                                     contributions from municipal governments and
                                                     prefectures

 Equity mechanisms based on relative poverty at      Complementary         equity  mechanisms    based on
 the municipal level                                 payment capacity o f the population, with particular
                                                     attention to protection mechanisms for the poorest
                                                     sectors

 Search for efficient intra municipal resource       Search for efficient intra sectoral resource allocation
 allocation
 FNDR market for municipalities and prefectures      FNDRmarket for the sector EPSAS
 only

 Dispersed service markets with low payment          Consolidated service markets, with wider scale, more
 capacity and on a limited scale                     solvent, and capacity to take advantage o f economies
                                                     o f scale

 EPSAS with high level of political interference     EPSAS with greater levels o f managerial autonomy
 and dependency                                      and fiscal and financial responsibility

 Lack of association between the quality of          Government's       strategic involvement to provide
 management and Government financing                 incentives for modernization and sustainability o f the
                                                     sector

 Fragmented and uneconomic investment, limited       Comprehensive         investment      programs,    with
 by the borrowing capacity at the municipal level    appropriate scale and secure financing
 Institutional strengthening interventions linked to Institutional strengthening interventions and systematic
   specificinvestments with an unsustainableimpact     support and financial incentives linked to the
                                                       institutional performancegoals




                                                   94

                                         3. Expected Results


Expected results ofthe new policy. The expectedresults inthe mediumterm are:
            optimize the allocation of state resources to complement the payment capacity of the
            population, ensuring adequate progress in investments and the attainment of coverage
            goals for the sector;
            free borrowing capacity of the municipalities and increment local fiscal responsibility
            through the application of tariffs inaccordance with Law 2066 and its guidelines;
            minimize future requirements for the replacement of infrastructure and maximize its
            useful life through efficient operation and maintenance;
            gradually reduce the dependency of EPSAS on subsidies through an increase in their
            efficiency, cost optimization, and adoption of a culture of makingtariff payments among
            the population;
            produce a transformation in the institutional structure of the sector through the
            integrationof EPSAS that will serve larger areas more efficiently, and
            strengthen operations systems and managementefficiency of the FNDRand FPS.


Results in population's access to services. It i s expected that a more dynamic and efficient
execution of sector investments will result from the implementation of the proposed financial
policies and strategies, and will allow for a sustainable increase in coverage for basic water and
sanitation in the country. Table 5 presents the coverage goals and their corresponding investments
through 2015.
                             Table 5. Coverage and Investment Goals

   Years                                  1pzi-q       2004   I  2005   I 2006   1-11




   National




  US$ millions




                                                 95

   Years                                     2001      2004      2005      2006       2015




   Total partialinvestmentinUS$millions                   80         83       114

   Total accumulated investment since 2004,
   inUS$ millions                                          80       163       277        1,696




The expected impacts prioritize those segments of the population with the largest service deficits,
such as the rural areas that constitutes one of the segments further behind in water supply coverage
and lacking sanitation services. The estimated investment resources also include the needs for
treating wastewaters. Fromthe perspective of impact on the poorest sectors, it has been foreseenthat
at least 80% of investments will be made in municipalities with the highest poverty indexes. The
level of investments planned through 2006 already has its funding guaranteed. Therefore, the
government's efforts should focus on guaranteeing a fluid and efficient implementation. At the end
of the period (December, 2006), it is estimated that the country will have reached 36% of the MDGs
for the sector.




                                                96

          Annex 6. Bolivia's National Dialogue andthe Poverty Reduction Strategy


In the year 2000, the Government of Bolivia convened a national dialogue for the design of a
poverty reduction strategy, which concluded with the preparation and subsequent approval of the
Bolivian Poverty Reduction Strategy. This strategy allowed Bolivia to be one of the first
countries complying with the requirements of debt alleviation through the HIPC I1mechanism.
Subsequently, on July 31, 2001, the government enacted the National Dialogue Law (National
Decree No. 2235), mandating the Executive Branch to convene, at least once every three years, a
national dialogue involving a wide variety of civil society organizations to discuss policies
alternatives to reducepoverty.


As mandated by the law, the objective of the Bolivia National Dialogue i s to agree and promote
the institutionalization of productive, economic and social strategies with a comprehensive focus
to guide economic policy and reduce poverty at the municipal, departmental and national levels.
Indoing so, it mustrecognize the interculturalcharacter of the country andpromote social equity
and inclusion. It i s expected that this results will be a major input in the definition of the
country's Poverty Reduction Strategy and subsequent implementation through a variety of
instruments (e.g. PRSCsandother programmatic andinvestment operations).


In order to lead this participatory process, a pro-tempore working group, called the Technical
Secretariat of the Dialogue, was created. This Secretariat i s incharge of the design, development
andexecution of the National Dialogue andis devoted entirely to promote consultative processes
with citizens and organizations. A National Board of Directors for the Dialogue has been
established through a supreme decree, including a number of civil society organizations in order
to create a greater space for civil society participation.     Its role i s to design the objectives,
methodology and schedule of the National Dialogue. Also, it acts as the instance responsible to
conduct the Dialogue: it conveys for its initiation, defines the agenda and invites participants.
The Minister of Popular Participation i s in charge of presiding the Board of Directors of the
National Dialogue.


On September 2003, the Board of Directors and the Technical Secretariat of the Bolivia National
Dialogue were establishedto implement the methodology and agendafor the 2003 Dialogue. The
social and political conflicts of October 2003, however, delayed the Dialogue agenda. On
November 20, 2003, the National Dialogue -focusing mainly on the productive sector and called
the "Productive National Dialogue"- was reinstalled. It i s estimated that the ongoing (now 2003-
2004) National Dialogue will be implemented over the next six months, including the following
four stages:


(a) Pre-Dialogue: it i s the first stage of the National Dialogue inwhich social organizations have
the chance to consult with their constituencies the preparation of a Comprehensive Productive
Strategy (CPS). This stage started on February 12,2004.


(b) Municipal Dialogue: once the Pre-Dialogue is concluded, a series of dialogues at the
municipal level start in the 314 municipalities of the country. This phase will last six weeks.


                                                97

Municipal governments representativesand overseeingcommittees will agree on municipal CPSs
and will define the guidelines for the preparation of participatory budgets.             Uninominal
congressmen and prefecture representatives may participate in these sessions, but without the
rightto vote.


(c) Departmental Dialogue: once the municipal dialogues are concluded, nine Departmental
Dialogues will take plabe.        The corresponding departmental CPS will be prepared.
Representatives of the municipal discussion tables, the departmental executive branch and the
departmental councils, congressmen, civic committees, universities, professional associations,
NGOs and networks of civil society organizations will participate in this dialogue.           These
different actors, aside from defining the comprehensive productive strategies, will establish
agreements for proposed changes to current norms and regulations. This process i s expected to
last three weeks.


(d) National Dialogue: this is the final stage of the process, in which representatives of all nine
departments will participate and agree on the national CPS. This national strategy is defined as
the set of actions and decisions made in a participative manner to strengthen the productive
processes in the country and reduce poverty. Duringtwo days, representatives of the municipal
and departmental discussion tables, parliamentary discussion tables, executive branch and
representative organizations of the national level, in addition to the Board of Directors of the
Dialogue jointly with NGOs and other networks, will define the country's CPS, its
implementationplanandneededchanges to the norms and regulations.


Not only for its objective but also for its scope, this National Dialogue i s different from the one
that took place inthe year 2000. This i s due notjust becausethis time there are no new resources
for debt relief such as the HIPC Iand HIPC 11, but also becausethe current goal i s to re-direct the
use of existing funds and those committed by the International Cooperation through the revision
of the Poverty Reduction Strategy with a productive focus, posing recommendations that would
allow the design and application of specific policies oriented to the economic and productive
reactivationof the country.


Incontrast to the previous Dialogue, the new strategy is expected to place a greater emphasis on
achieving a limited set of priority objectives. It will draw upon the achievements and lessons
learned from the three-year implementation of the National Law of the Dialogue and the
country's Poverty Reduction Strategy. On the achievements side, it can be mentioned that this
process generated an open andparticipative space for the discussion of public policy, constructed
the bases for a social pact and introduced pro-poor distributive measures via the distribution
formula of HIPC resourcesand the national compensation policy (PNC).


However, duringthe evaluationof the Poverty Reduction Strategy, problems with the design and
implementation were identified. The main critical aspects inthe design were the lack of strategic
prioritization of demands and goals which resulted in a dispersion of efforts, diminishing the
possibilities of a short term impact, and the concentration in the use of public investment
resources neglecting alternative promotion instruments to the micro, small and medium
enterprise. On the implementation side, there was concerned over the low execution levels of
HIPC 11resourcesdue mainly to institutional weaknesses at various levels of government.


                                              98

The observations to the Poverty Reduction Strategy, however, go even further as some reports
consider that: "...officially, the original BPRS is still in effect, but that the great majority of the
Bolivians either are not aware or consider it a "dead" document". The implementation of the
strategy (in a recessive economic climate and a tense social climate) has not achieved poverty
reduction as measured by income or expenditure and few have confidence in that the strategy
could solve the economic problems of the country. In October 2003, the national government
distributeda revised proposal of the BPRS. The population awaits a 2003 National Dialogue to
discuss this proposal and also to discuss issues pending from the preparation of the BPRS (critics
to the current economic model and concerns on land titling and national resource
distribution...)."'


The Bolivia Productive National Dialogue 2003 will take place in a context of high political,
social and economic tension. As a core public space for debate, it is foreseen that in it the
different levels of government and multiple representatives of the civil society will discuss,
propose and try to achieve agreements on the evaluation of achievements and difficulties in the
implementation of the Poverty reduction Strategy; the actions needed for economic and
productive reactivation of stakeholders affected by the crisis, particularly for job creation driven
by the micro, small and mediumenterprise and of the indigenous communities.




 The Bolivian Poverty Reduction Strategy: i"The new Brilliant Idea"?, Country Report: Bolivia, Institute of Social
Studies, Evaluationand Monitoring of the Poverty ReductionStrategies in Latin America. Commissionedproject by
the SwedishAgency of IntemationalCooperation for Development,The Hague, December2003.


                                                   99

                                 Annex 7. IMF's RelationNote




                         INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
                                   WASHINGTON. D.C. 20431



                                                                                           CABLE ADDRESS
                                                                                            INTERFUND




Bolivia    -- IMFStatement           to Donors' Meeting
Anoop Singh
Director, Western Hemisphere Department
Washington, D.C.
January 16,2004
Introduction
1. The IMF welcomes very much this first meeting of the Bolivia Support Group. Against the
background of recent political and economic instability in Bolivia, and the continuing risks in
these areas, this group has the urgent task of providing timely and appropriate international
support for the authorities' efforts to stabilize the economic and financial situation in Bolivia and
pave the way for sustainedgrowth with reducedpoverty.
2. The challenges are compelling. Bolivia is the poorest country in South America, with real GDP
per capita having fallen over the past five years. Social indicators regressed over this period.
Bolivia's poverty rate of almost two-thirds remains the highest in South America, with more than
a third of the population in extreme poverty, especially the sizable indigenous population. Open
unemployment has been risingand about half the labor force is under-employed.
3. Both external and domestic factors explain Bolivia's deterioration following the period of
economic reforms and recovery in the early 1990s. A succession of external shocks in recent
years combined with persisting macroeconomic vulnerabilities and stalled reforms to produce a
vicious circle of economic decline, rising social discontent, reform fatigue, and political
fragmentation.
4. Bolivia's new government is now trying to reverse these trends. It needs to succeedfor the sake
of the Bolivian population and also for the sake of regional stability. Reversingthe economic and
social trends, and establishing a new basis for growth and equity will take time. International
support will be crucial for this process to take hold.
Experience in2003
5. Let me begin by briefly recalling the events of 2003. Bolivia faced social and political
instability in February as well as, more recently, in October. Despite these systemic events, the
authorities acted quickly on both occasions to restore financial stability, helped by international
support. Inparticular, the I M F s Stand-By Arrangement of March 2003 has provided a framework
for macroeconomic stabilization, continuing reforms, and internationalsupport.
6. Thus, despite the political and social setbacks, the authorities were able to make significant
progress in key economic areas. Two important reform measures were passed: a new tax code and
a new law for corporate restructuring. More recently, the authorities acted quickly to resolve
insolvencies in two banks, succeeding in restoring financial stability. However, fiscal pressures


                                                100

increased duringthe year, especially inthe wake of the October unrest, and the fiscal deficit rose
significantly above the program target to 8 percent of GDP. Nevertheless, helped by international
 support, macroeconomic stability has been broadly maintained-with inflation still in the low
single-digit range-and growth remained positive for the year as a whole (although, at 2% percent,
below the program target).
7. However, there were important costs from the events of 2003. Fiscal distortions and pressures
have increased, necessitating recourse to central bank financing. The banking system remains
vulnerable. Delays associated with public opposition to a project to build an LNG pipeline to
export to the U.S. market has resulted inthe loss of this prospect-as the buyer has entered into a
long-term contract with another country-and Bolivia will need to find new markets for its
abundant natural gas reservesto assure medium-term viability.
The Government's Objectives and Strategy for 2004
8. Fund staff i s now discussing with the Bolivian authorities the policies and objectives for 2004
that could be supported by an extension of the SBA through September 2004. The extension of
the SBA i s intended to provide a framework to catalyze urgent external assistance, while giving
the authorities time to develop a full set of medium-term policies that could be supported by a
new three-year PRGF arrangement-whose timeframe, structure, and concessionality are better
suited to addressing Bolivia's needs.
9. The key goals for 2004 include further progresstoward fiscal consolidationat a pace calibrated
to take account of the serious political constraints on the government while giving increased
priority to pro-poor spending; further progress toward corporate restructuring; and establishing a
viable framework for the exploitation of Bolivia's hydrocarbon resources.

Macroeconomic Policies
 10. The fiscal program for 2004 aims at lowering the fiscal deficit to below 7 percent of GDP-
current projections are based on a deficit of 6% percent of GDP. The authorities recognize the
need to raise the fiscal effort in a carefully sequencedway. Revenues in 2004 will benefit from
the full-year effects of legislation approved in late 2003, including the new tax code and law 843
(which expanded the tax base of hydrocarbon products), and the tax regularization scheme. In
addition, the authorities will seek approval of revisions to the hydrocarbons' law aimed at
addressingsocial concerns about the appropriate level of taxation of oil and gas production, while
maintainingBoliviaas an attractive environment for foreign investors. The programalso builds in
phased increases in excise taxes and increased taxation of the wealthy, with some measures
expectedto take place inthe weeks ahead.
11. On the spending side, the 2004 programaims at increasing pro-poor spending by at least 0.6
percent of GDP to about 12% percent of GDP, while containing nonpoverty-related spending. It
will be particularly important to improve the prioritization and effectiveness of public spending,
given that expenditure levels are already high compared with other PRGF-eligible countries. In
this context, the authorities intend to appoint a commissionto conduct a comprehensive review of
expenditures to improve their poverty orientation. Efforts to reduce spending in 2004 would
include a temporary wage freeze in the civil service; improvedtargeting of subsidies; and a major
reprioritization of public programs. Reductions in overall spending, however, would be difficult
to accomplish because of increases in some components, including: (i)     interest payments, owing
to the high domestic financing in 2003; (ii)local government spending as implementation
capacity improves; and (iii)   pension payments, as remaining eligible pensioners are incorporated
into the system. As such, despite the planned economies, total spending i s projected to remain at
about 33 percent of GDPin 2004. Financingof the deficit is discussed below.




                                               101

12. The authorities are committed to prudent monetary and exchange rate policies. Monetary
policy will continue to be geared to ensuring low inflation, while rebuildinginternationalreserves
and supporting a continued return of confidence in the banking system. The authorities are
confident of maintainingcompetitivenessinthe context of Bolivia's crawling peg regime.
Financial and CorporatePolicies
13. Incoordination with the World Bank, the IDB, and the CAF, as well as the Fund, the Bolivian
authorities are developing a strategy to address corporate and financial balance sheet problems,
while avoiding public bailouts of shareholders or unviable institutions. In this connection, a new
decree i s expected to be issuedinthe weeks ahead, formally creating a fund which will strengthen
the solvency of the financial system by assisting banks in merger or acquisition operations, as
well as in debt-workout processes. The authorities anticipate applying the new corporate workout
framework in a number of key cases.
Exploitation of Natural GasReserves
14.Against the background of the setback on the LNGpipeline, the authorities are developing an
alternative strategy to develop Bolivia's rich hydrocarbon reserves. Followingthe revisions to the
hydrocarbons' law that the government intends to submit to Congress in the weeks ahead, a
referendum on gas exports i s expected to be held by end-March. Discussions are also underway
with a number of other potential buyers on the possibility of alternative energy projects.
FinancingRequirementsin2004 andDebtSustainability
15. Based on the fiscal framework outlined above, and after exhausting available non-inflationary
sources of domestic financing, Bolivia faces a net external budgetary financing need of at least
US$462 million, above that of 2003 (see attached Table 1). This estimate assumes upfront
implementation of revenue measures and, for that reason, should be regarded as a minimum
estimate, given the risks that the authorities are weighing before deciding on the precise
sequencing of the implementation of the revenue measures. Given scheduled amortization of
US$222 million, our best estimate of required gross disbursements in 2004 is, therefore, at least
US$684 million. Of this amount, about US$579 million has already been identified, leaving a
minimumof US$105 million still to be secured. Needless to say, given Bolivia's debt situation,
the remaining financing need should be met as far as possible on highly concessional terms,
preferably inthe form of grants.

indebted situation and the prospects for achieving medium-term sustainability . Against the
16. The importance of increased levels of grant financing i s underlined by Bolivia's highly

background of recent setbacks, these prospects will depend critically on Boliviaputtingtogether a
strong domestic consensus to exploit its abundant gas reserves, as well as finding alternative
markets for such exports.
17. At this stage, we have revised our medium-term projections based on a cautious assumption
on the likely scale of such gas exports. On this preliminary basis, Bolivia's public debt is
projected to increase further in net present value terms from 48.4 percent of GDP at end-2003 to
almost 55 percent of GDP by 2008, before beginningto decline steadily over the medium term to
below 50 percent of GDPby 2015. The results are highly dependent on three critical assumptions:
(i)steadyreductionofthefiscaldeficit to4percent ofGDPby2007 (inpartthroughthe
    a
implementation of an expenditure reform, starting in 2005) and to about 1-2 percent in the outer
years of the projection; (ii)  financing the bulk of the fiscal deficit with highly concessional
resources; and (iii)implementing energy projects that generate additional fiscal revenues of about
1percent of GDP by 2008.
ProgramRisks



                                               102

18. Before closing, let me discuss briefly a number of significant risks to the program mainly
associatedwith the highly fragile social and political conditions. Inparticular,
  High expectations on the part of large segments of the population for rapid progress in
addressing social grievances and turning around the economy may easily be disappointed in a
context of significant financial constraints.
. Moreover, the authorities' limited political support in congress could complicate the
implementationof the reformagenda.
 There are also risks associatedwith the exploitationof Bolivia's hydrocarbon resources, which is
critical for medium-term viability. A negative outcome of the referendum on gas exports cannot
be ruled out. Moreover, even with a positive outcome, having lost the California market, the
authorities will face significant challenges to create the conditions for large energy projects to be
implemented inthe next few years.
19. Addressing these risks will require that the government reach out to the Bolivian people
through a process of national dialogue to explain their program, including the importance of fiscal
discipline and the efficient exploitation of the country's natural resources to pave the way for a
sustained revival of the economy. It will also be important for the government to intensify its
efforts to strengthen social safety nets and to prioritize pro-poor spending. The provision of
external financing that would provide room for the government to carefully phase in adjustment
measures would also reduce the political risks associatedwith the program.
ConcludingRemarks
20. The Fundremains committed to working with the Bolivian authorities and internationaldonor
community to put inplace a programthat would ensurefiscal sustainability, growth, and poverty
reduction. The Bolivian authorities are making their best efforts to implement an ambitious
programina very difficult political environment. Strong support by donors is urgently requiredto
support such a program. At a minimum, US$l05 million i s required to meet financing needs in
2004, and a higher amount would provide some necessary latitude for the authorities to phase the
adjustment in more gradually, thus reducing risks. Based on sufficient indications of financing
forthcoming at today's meeting and good progress in implementing the necessary measures, the
Fundwould be able to complete the next review and program extension and augmentation by
end-February.



                         IMFEXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
                         Public Affairs: 202-623-7300 - Fax: 202-623-6278
                       Media Relations: 202-623-7 100 - Fax: 202-623-6772




                                               103

Press Release No. 03/162
October 6, 2003                                    Washington, D.C. 20431U S A
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                               InternationalMonetary Fund




              IMFCompletesSecondReviewofBolivia'sStand-ByArrangement,
                             Approves US$15MillionDisbursement


The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today completed the second
review of Bolivia's performance under a one-year, SDR 85.75 million (about US$123 million)
Stand-By Arrangement that was approved on April 2, 2003 (see Press Release No. 03/46). This
decision enables the release of SDR 10.7 million (about US$15 million) to Bolivia, which brings
total disbursements under the program to SDR 64.2 million (about US$92 million).


The Executive Boardalso approved Bolivia's request for the modification of performance criteria
for end-September with respect to the fiscal deficit, net domestic financing of the public sector,
central bank net credit to the non-financial public sector, and net domestic assets of the central
bank, as well as the modification of performance criteria for end-December in relation to the
fiscal deficit and net domestic financing of the public sector. The Executive Board also approved
Bolivia's request for waivers of applicability until October 30, 2003 of the performance criteria
for end-September, for which data was not available.


Following the Executive Board discussion on Bolivia, Anne h e g e r , First Deputy Managing
Director and Acting Chair, said:


"Bolivia's economic programi s broadly on track. Despitea difficult political and social
environment, inflation remains low andindications arethat economic growth i s picking up and
that financial market conditions have stabilized. Although the fiscal outtum has fallen short of the
program's objectives, the authorities have taken corrective measures. Moreover, encouraging
progress has been made with the government's reform agenda.

"The authorities' corrective steps to contain the fiscal deficit in2003 andto facilitate continued
fiscal consolidation in2004 and beyond will require firm and consistent implementationto
achieve higher economic growth and lastingpoverty reduction. Recent measures that will be of
crucial importance inthis context includereductions inlow-priority spending, and the
implementation of legislation to introduce a new tax code, broaden the tax base, and apply a tax
regularization scheme.

"The recent approval of the out-of-court workout law andthe issuingof the supporting
regulations representimportant steps that will help to put inplace an appropriate framework for
corporate and financial restructuring. The law will now be applied to a pilot sample of firms. The
authorities also intendto develop an action planto improve the resiliency of the bankingsystem


                                               104

andaddress any potential weaknesses, and to implement recommendations madeby the recent
Financial Sector Assessment Program study.

"Building on recentpolicy initiatives andprogresstoward stabilizingthe economy, the authorities
are working to put in place a strong policy framework for the next three years that will
incorporate comprehensivereforms aimed at strengthening the basis for sustainedgrowth and
poverty reduction. The Fundi s working closely with the authorities, who planto develop and
implement the program on the basis of a broad dialogue with domestic stakeholders and
discussion with the donor community. On this basis, the authorities have reiterated their intention
to seek support under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility before the end of the
year," Ms.Krueger stated.




                                              105

                                                      Annex 8 Boliviaat a Glance




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FlNANCE
                                                    1982         1992     2001         2002                                                      I
Domesticprices                                                                                    Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                                       '4 T
Consumer prices                                                  10.5        0.9         0.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                                159.4        13.2        0.7         2.0
Governmentfinance                                                                                 5

(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                                 0
Current revenue                                                  23.8      25.2         26.1
Current budget balance                                            5.6        0.8        -0.4    I
Overallsurpluddeficit                                                                                                                            I
                                                                  -4.4       -6.7       -7.5                -GDPdeflator         -.oICPI


                                                                                                  I
TRADE
                                                    1982         1992     2001         2002
(US$ millions)                                                                                    Exportandimportlevels(US$mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                                                 638     1,285        1,192
  Hydrocarbons-gas                                                134        302
  Soya                                                             57        275
  Manufactures                                                    118        178
Total imports(cif)                                              1,090     1,724        1,743
  Food                                                            196        435
  Fueland energy                                                  456        891
                                                                                                                                                 I
  Capitalgoods                                                    439        398        491
Export priceindex (1995=100)                                      102         85          87             96    er    98    99    w     01

Import priceindex (1995=100)                                       92         99         100                 BExports       aimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                                                     O2
                                                                  111         86          87

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                    1982        1992      2001         2002
(US$ millions)                                                                                    Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)               1
Exports of goods and services                         904         813     1,521        1,433
Importsof goods and services                          681       1,277     1,996        2,012
Resourcebalance                                       223        -464      -476         -579
Net income                                           465         -190      -210         -202
Netcurrenttransfers                                    45        248         393        421
Current account balance                              -174        -534      -293
Financingitems (net)                                  100         554        264
Changes innet reserves                                 73         -20         29         163
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold {US$millions)                   216        410      1,116         858
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWUS$)                   1.20E-4         3.9        6.6         7.2

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                    1982        1992      2001         2002
(US$ millions)                                                                                    Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                3,329       4,235      4,676        4,535
  IBRD                                                212         146           0          0
  IDA                                                  90        464      1,146        1,321                             38

Total debt service                                   544         288         544        475
  IBRD                                                 24          35           0          0
  IDA                                                    1          5           2         15
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                      43        264         352
  Officialcreditors                                   139        272         229        229
  Privatecreditors                                    46           -8        -24         -75
  Foreigndirect investment                             61          93        662
  Portfolioequity                                       0           0           0
World Bankprogram
  Commitments                                           0         118        106          77      A - IBRD                           E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                       30           55        102         104      B IDA       D-Othermultilateral    F Private
                                                                                                                                      .-
  Principalrepayments                                   9          23           1          7      C IMF
                                                                                                    --                               G -Short-term
  Net flows                                           21           32        101          96
  Interestpayments                                     16          17           1          7
  Nettransfers                                          5          15        100          89

Note: This table was producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                                 8/20/03
   * The diamonds show four key indicatorsinthe country (in bold)compared with its income-groupaverage. If dataare missing,thediamondwill
      be incomplete.




                                                                      106

                                            Bolivia at a glance                                                                              8/20/03
                                                                             U




       tion, midyear (m!l/!ons)                                                                                     Life expectancy
        r capita (Atlas methw! US$)


            nnual growth, 199802




Most recent estimate (latest year availabl




                                                                                                           Access to improved water source




        omestic investmenVGDP
         of goods and servicedGDP
        omestic savingdGDP
        ationat savingdGDP


Interest payment
Total debVGDP



                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                                                              2002     2002-06



            oods and services


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                      1982           1992     2001        2002
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                          16.0      15.7
Industry                                                             33.6      28.6
  Manufacturing                                                      19.1      15.3
Services                                                   ........  60.4      55.8

Privateconsumption                                     72.9          79.4      78.4
General government consumption                         11.8          12.9      14.8
Imports of goods and services                          29.4          29.1      24.5                              -GO1            -0'GDP



                                                  1982-92 1992-02             2001        2002      1 Growth ofexports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                                              1
Agriculture                                                           2.8        1.1                 30

Industry                                                                                             20
                                                           ....
                                                           ....       3.6        0.5
  Manufacturing                                                       3.6        1.1                  10
Services                                                              4.2        1.6                  0

Private consumption                                      2.4          3.6        1.o                -io
General government consumPtion                         -2.5           3.4        3.2                -20
Gross domestic investment                                7.1          5.3     -23.9
Imports of goods and services                            9.4          4.5       -7.4


Note:2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. Ifdata are missing, the diamond will
  be incomplete.




                                                                         107

                                        Annex 9
                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                     As of 3/31/2004
                                 (InUS DollarsMillions)

                                             Held                    Disbursed


FYApproval       Company         Loan Equity    Quasi Partic Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic

1995198          BISA                  0    0.46     0      0     0    0.46     0      0
            2003BancoSol               6       0     0      0     0       0     0      0
            1999CBTI                   0       0  0.83      0     0       0  0.83      0
1994100          COMSUR              2.5       0     0      0   2.5       0     0      0
        ll311999CajaLos Andes          8       0     0      0     8       0     0      0
1991IO1          CentralAguirre     2.05       0     0      0  1.53       0     0      0
            1999Electropaz          19.9       0     0      0  19.9       0     0      0
            2003FIE                  2.5       0     0      0   2.5       0     0      0
            1993GENEX               0.28       0     0      0  0.28       0     0      0
            1999111imani            4.87       1     0      0  4.87       1     0      0
            1996Mercantil-BOL       3.57       0     0      0  3.57       0     0      0
                 Minera                0     3.4     0      0     0     3.4     0      0
            2003PRODEM                 3       0     0      0     3       0     0      0
            2003TDE S.A.              15       0    15      0    15       0     15     0
                 TFSA                  0    4.44     0      0     0    4.44     0      0
                 TRECO                 0    2.94     0      0     0    2.94     0      0
            2001Telecel Bolivia     6.67       0     5   5.71  6.67       0     5   5.71


           Total Portfolio:        74.34   12.24 20.83   5.71 67.82  12.24 20.83    5.71


                ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                                 Loan Equity    Quasi Partic
           2001PQB                  10.5      0      0      0


     Total Pending Commitment:      10.5      0      0      0




                                        108

                 51



a




     YI-
     $a     c    0
     2      .-c0m
                 5
     2      c
            E    U


            cn   Y
            C     S
                  m
     n
     z      I-
            E m  .-
                 0
     a
     t
     a      b
     I-    I
     o      cn
     3
     n      !? 2Eew2
            L    c




            e
            c
     z>-    -
            S    a
            c
            a,
            c 2  e


     z      0    i i
     W
     2      - -
            a,
            $!   .-.-m>
            m m
            0 0

                                                Annex 11


                        Key Economic& ProgramIndicators Changefrom Last CAS
                                                                        -
                   Preparedfor all CASdProgress Repons, but included in Board version of Progress Reports Only
                                          As Of Date 11/24/2003


                                      ForecastinLastCAS                        Actual                     CurrentCASForecast

Economy (CY)                 1999b     2000b     2Wlb        2002b
Growthrates I%)
    GDP                       5.0       5.3        5.4          5.5        1.5        2.8         2.6         3.2    3.6     3.6
    Exports                   6.4       7.9       10.5          9.7       -2.3        3.8         14.6        4.2    4.6     4.4
    Imports                   -3.0      3.5        4.5          3.6       -7.8        3.3         -7.4        8.2    2.4     3.2

Inflation("7)                 5.9       5.7        5.5          5.5       0.9         2.4         3.0         3.4    3.4     3.5

Nationalaccounts(%GDP)
    Currentaccount balance    -6.0      -5.8      -5.1         -4.3       -3.4        -4.4        -0.7       -0.6   -1.2     -1.6
   Gross investment           18.0      19.0      19.8        20.1        14.5        15.9        11.4       13.9   15.0     15.8

Publicfinance (% GDP)
    Fiscalbalance             -3.4      -2.8      -2.5         -2.0       -6.8        -8.9        -8.0       -6.6   -4.5     -3.4
    Foreignfinancing          2.9       2.4        2.1          1.6        3.0        6.1          5.1        5.1    2.6     2.1

Internationalreserves         8.2       7.9        7.9          7.1        5.8        4.1          4.1        4.4    4.6     4.8
(as monthsof imports)
Program(Bank's FV           FY9ga      FYOO*     FYOlb       FYO2'       FYOlc       FYOIC       FY03d      FYO4'   FYO5'   FYOGb
Lending($million)             170       110        95           70        100           83         80         64     96
Gross disbursements           100       100        80           60         57           71         88         60     85
($ million)

a. Estimatedyear
b. Projectedyear
c. Actualoutcome




                                                     110

Press Release No. 04/113                                  InternationalMonetary Fund

June 10,2004                                              700 19thStreet,NW
                                                          Washington,D.C. 20431USA




       The Executive Boardof the International MonetaryFund (IMF) today

completed the third review of Bolivia's performance under a one-year, SDR 85.75

million (about US$126million) Stand-ByArrangement that was approvedon April

2, 2003 (see PressRelease No. 03/46). This decision enablesthe release of

SDR 10.72 million (about US$16million) to Bolivia, which would bringtotal

disbursements under theprogramto SDR75.04 million (aboutUS$110 million).

In completing the review, the Executive BoardapprovedBolivia's request for

waivers for thenonobservanceof performance criteria.In addition, the Executive

Board approved to extendthe Stand-By Arrangement until December 31,2004,

and augmentedaccess to Fund resources by SDR 42.89 million (aboutUS$63

million) to support the government's 2004 economic policies.

       Following the Executive Board discussionon Bolivia, Anne Krueger, First

Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chair, said: "Bolivia's economyis gradually

picking up, withmoderategrowth projected for this yearand the current account

in small surplus, while inflation remains subdued.The macroeconomicand

financial situation has also stabilized in recent weeks, as the Bolivian authorities,

with strong support fromthe international community, work to address socialand

political concerns while pursuing a challenging agenda of adjustmentand reform.

       "The authorities' programis basedon a four-pronged strategy: (i) a

budgetaryframework to limit the 2004 fiscal deficit to available noninflationary

financing; (ii) financing assurances from the internationalcommunitythat would

minimize nonconcessional creditsand avoid central bank financing ofthe

government; (iii) measuresto strengthen the financial sector;and (iv) a process

towards implementing a viable hydrocarbons strategy.

                                            - 2 -


       "The authoritiesaim toreduce the fiscal deficit this yearthrough measures

already implementedor approved by Congress, andto implement reformsthat

will permit timely disbursements of concessional fundsfrom bilateraldonors and

the multilateral institutions.The government is determinedto monitor

developmentsclosely to assure that fiscal targets are met, so as to preserve

hard-wonfinancial stability. While some of the measuresare temporary, they
should provide breathingspace for the governmentto prepare medium-termtax

and expenditure reforms. At the same time, the government plansto continueto

increase pro-poor spending andthe national dialogue tobuild domestic

consensusfor its reformagenda.

       "The authorities have made progressin implementingan action plan to

address weak banks and reducefinancial sector vulnerabilities, andhave

establishedfunds for both financial and corporate restructuring.Moreover,they

have sought to minimizedomestic debt roll-overrisk by allowing interest rates to

be more responsiveto market liquidity conditions andhave recently begunto

place domestic paper in the markets again.

       "Looking further ahead, broadening and consolidating thenational

consensusfor policies to support growth and .poverty reduction, includingthrough

the efficient development of Bolivia's rich hydrocarbon resources, willenable the

government to develop a medium-term programthat could form the basisfor a

revised Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper laterthis year, and a possible Poverty

ReductionGrowth Facility," Ms. Krueger said.


                   IMF EXTERNALRELATIONS DEPARTMENT
                   Public Affairs: 202-623-7300- Fax: 202-623-6278
                  Media Relations: 202-623-7100- Fax: 202-623-6772

