Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)             
29050
 
BOARD STAGE 
 
Project 
Name 
Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit 
 
Region 
Latin America And Caribbean 
Sector 
Social Sectors (100%) 
Project ID 
P087841 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
Implementing 
Agency 
Vice-Ministerio de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo (VIPFE), Palacio de 
Comunicaciones, Piso 11, La Paz, Bolivia, Tel: (591-2) 314-761 through /769, Fax: (591-2) 
317-408, Contact: Luis Arnal, Vice Minister 
Environment 
Category 
This is a Structural Adjustment Credit, and is not subject to the Bank’s environmental 
and social safeguard policies. 
Safeguard 
Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Not Applicable 
Date PID 
Prepared 
May 14, 2004 
Date of 
Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2004 
Date of Board 
Approval 
June 15, 2004 (pending) 
 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Bolivia is facing a positive external environment not seen since the mid-1990s.  As a 
consequence, and in spite of a difficult  internal social and political context, exports are booming 
and there are indications of reactivation in the non-export sectors.  In parallel, the Government is 
addressing macro-financial vulnerabilities and a serious fiscal situation.  However, political 
differences on how to handle these vulnerabilities and progress on a complex legislative agenda 
(that includes, among others, a reform of the hydrocarbons law, a referendum on gas exports and 
a reform of the Constitution by means of a national Constitutional assembly) have led to 
opposition from various stakeholders and outbursts of social unrest.  The success in handling this 
situation is key to ensure the stability of the economy and secure progress in poverty reduction. 
In the social sectors, despite important progress during the last decade, much remains to be done.  
Bolivia faces challenges that demand immediate actions in these sectors, including: (i) the 
existence of poor indicators in various areas, in some cases aggravated by recent stagnation of 
the improvement trends; (ii) the persistence of chronic poor-performing municipalities and 
important inequalities across different population subgroups (urban and rural, non indigenous 
and indigenous, rich and poor) hiding behind the national averages; (iii) the difficult fiscal, social 
and political situation that puts pressure on all sectors and threatens the scope and momentum of 
the social programs; and (iv) the slow progress in the adoption of a results-based orientation in 
the social sectors that reaches the municipal level. 
2. Objectives 
 
Page  2
 
 
The objective of this series of three single tranche Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credits 
(SSPSACs) is to support the Government of Bolivia in its effort to maintain progress in health and nutrition, 
education, water and sanitation, and social protection, in spite of an important fiscal crisis.  In order to meet this 
objective, the SSPSACs would support specific actions as discussed below and promote greater results orientation 
and accountability in the social sectors.  If successful in achieving its objective, this Program will better position 
Bolivia to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by reducing disparities in social outcomes across 
different regions, ethnic groups and income classes. 
 
The first SSPSAC would support the following set of actions in each sector:  
 
(i) 
Health and Nutrition
: expand coverage of primary health care with an intercultural approach, in order to 
reach underserved sectors of the population, and improve the functioning of the health service network to further 
reduce maternal and child mortality; promote policies to reduce malnutrition and anemia in children under three 
years and pregnant women; and secure financing of programs aimed at reducing the incidence of communicable 
diseases and increasing the coverage of immunizations. 
 
(ii) 
Education
:
 develop the Bolivian Educational Strategy through and intense participatory process; design and 
implement specific actions to increase completion rates in primary education and improve secondary education. 
 
(iii) 
Water and Sanitation
: implement new financing and technical assistance policies for the sector and measures 
to improve the management and efficiency of service providers, leading to increased access to water and sanitation 
services. 
 
(iv) 
Social Protection
:
 create and implement a social protection network, to be followed by the definition of a 
national social protection strategy; improvements in the efficacy of PLANE, and introduction of incentives for 
municipalities to achieve the MDGs. 
 
(v) 
Accountability and Transparency
:
 undertake measures in all sectors to increase citizen access to information 
on public social sector expenditures, and consolidate a national information system that includes users’ opinions, for 
the participatory monitoring and evaluation of progress towards achieving the MDGs at the national and municipal 
levels. 
 
Overall, specific policies and actions identified in the social sectors program will: (a) strengthen selected 
interventions that are closely linked to the desired social outcomes, (b) introduce gradually outcome-based 
incentives at the municipal level for prioritized targets; (c) secure financial sustainability of core social programs, 
and (d) focus efforts on municipalities and/or vulnerable groups that have persisted as outliers in terms of social 
outcomes.  These policies will be complemented by a set of multisectorial actions aimed at strengthening 
participatory monitoring and accountability in the social sectors. 
 
 
3. Description 
 
The SSPSAC Program will consist of three single tranche credits, the first one of SDR 17.2 
million (approximately US$ 25 million).  Co-financing by Germany (through KfW) will 
strengthen this support.  The second credit is expected to be negotiated and submitted for 
approval approximately one to two years after the first one and once a new CAS is in effect.  The 
third credit would take place approximately 12 months after the second one. 
The social contents identified in the program (e.g. infant and maternal health, completion of 
primary education and coverage of water and sanitation services) are considered to remain highly 
relevant for Bolivia in the coming years.  Benchmarks for the second and third credits in the 
series have been identified to define sufficiently the process, policy direction and monitoring 
outcomes expected in each sector while taking into account the uncertainties that lay ahead as the 
Page  3
 
 
country progresses on critical consultative processes.  Hence, they provide prudent space and 
flexibility to further discuss and agree on the specific contents, policy instruments and credit 
structures of the subsequent phases of this series once progress on the first Credit has been 
evaluated, the results of core consultative processes (such as the National Dialogue 2004) are 
known, and further experience has been acquired in the social sectors following participatory and 
systematic reviews of the results obtained. 
 
The proposed SSPSAC is aligned fully with the Bolivia CAS and represents the Association’s 
immediate vehicle of financial assistance to support the country’s social development agenda.  
Depending upon Bolivia’s progress towards formulating a revised Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PRSP), the second and/or third credits in this series could eventually be converted into a 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC). 
 
The proposed SSPSAC complements ongoing work supported by other financial assistance to 
Bolivia and builds heavily upon previous analytical work performed in the country and in the 
social sectors.  Links with ongoing sector operations strengthen implementation capacity, 
sustainability, and monitoring and evaluation.  The SSPSAC is being prepared in close 
coordination with other multilateral and bilateral international donors to improve the 
effectiveness of the program and of international cooperation. 
 
4. 
Financing
 
 
Schedule of 
Disbursements 
 SDR 17.2 million (approximately US$25 million) will be disbursed upon credit 
effectiveness. 
Financing Plan 
The tentative financing plan is as follows: 
 
 
IDA 
                               SDR 17.2 million (approx. US$ 25 million) 
 
KfW                                 Euros 8.0 million (approx. US$ 9.5 million) 
                                  Total approx.                   US$  34.5 million 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Implementation 
 
The lead counterpart for the implementation of the credit and program is the Vice Minister of 
Finance and Public Investment (VIPFE).  Sectoral counterparts in education, health, social 
protection, water and sanitation, and participation, as well as UDAPE, have contributed to the 
preparation of the program and will be determinant during its implementation.  These sectors 
will also have a leading role in monitoring and evaluating progress made, together with the 
support of the international donor community and the active participation from civil society. 
 
6. Project Risks
 
 
The proposed credit involves different risks at various levels, including: 
- 
At the country level, risks derived from the still fragile political and social scenario, the stringent 
fiscal situation, the implementation capacity of different levels of government (affected by the 
Page  4
 
 
ongoing crisis) and the uncertainty in the results of key consultative processes (such as the 
National Dialogue and major topics in the legislative agenda); 
- 
At the implementation level, eventual resistance to change in the sectors, lack of progress in 
needed participatory processes, and/or institutional weaknesses; and 
- 
At program design, that the actions proposed in the program may not address and overcome the 
key obstacles to reaching the desired social outcomes. 
 
For the above risks in implementation and design, mitigating actions have been considered. 
 
 
7.  Lessons Learned and Links to Other Operations in the Country 
 
The proposed SSPSAC complements ongoing work supported by other IDA financial assistance 
to Bolivia, as follows: 
- 
In the area of decentralization, the SSPSAC complements a recent series of adjustment credits that 
aimed at (i) increasing the efficiency, transparency and accountability of Bolivia’s decentralized 
government system, and (ii) improving the capacity of the decentralized government system to 
deliver services.  The SSPSAC complements these efforts by targeting the introduction of 
incentives to municipal social services for achieving MDGs and supporting results-based 
instruments (e.g., performance agreements in the health sector). 
- 
In the area of institutional reform, the SSPSAC will complement ongoing efforts by promoting 
improved access to information and underlying financial flows and participatory monitoring and 
evaluation of progress in the social sectors towards the MDGs. 
- 
In the social protection area, the SSPSAC will build on lessons learned in budgeting protection 
efforts for core social expenditures, maintain relevant social targets for prioritized programs, and 
further develop social protection programs. 
 
 
8.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
 
 
The project does not trigger any of the safeguard policies.  
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
9.  Contact point: 
Juan Pablo Uribe 
Senior Health Specialist 
Tel: 202-458-2256 
Fax: 202-522-1201 
Email juribe@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, D.C. 
 
For more information contact
: 
The InfoShop 
Page  5
 
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note:
 This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components may be changed or not be included in the 
final project. 
 
 
WB175385 
P:\GENERAL\LCSHD\JPURIBE\BOLIVIA SSPC\ROC DOCUMENTS\Project Information Document.doc 
May 14, 2004 5:41 PM
 
