Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3682 TJ 
GRANT NUMBER H381TJ  
(Amendment)
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Pamir Private Power Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 26, 2008 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3682 TJ  
GRANT NUMBER H381 TJ  
(Amendment) 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 26, 2008, between the REPUBLIC OF 
TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Pamir Private Power Project), 
 
dated July 3, 2002 (the Development Credit Agreement), as amended, for the purpose of 
improving the quantity and reliability of supply of electricity in the GBAO region of the 
Borrower, as described in the Recital of the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000); and 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Paragraph (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
“(B) the Project will be carried out by Pamir Energy Company 
(PamirEnergy) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Financing) available to PamirEnergy, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and” 
 
Section 1.02. The penultimate paragraph of the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement is amended as follows:  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
“WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to extend the Financing to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Association and PamirEnergy (the Project Agreement);” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 1.02 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the “and” at the end of Subsection (p), substituting “; and” for “;” at the end of 
Subsection (q), and adding a new Subsection (r) and (s) as follows:  
 
“(r) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, 
dated July 3, 2002. 
 
“(s) “Amending Project Agreement” means the agreement amending the 
Project Agreement between the Association and PamirEnergy, dated July 3, 
2002.” 
 
Section 1.04. Section 1.02(p) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“(p) 
“Special Account” means Special Account A or Special Account 
B
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; and “Special Accounts” 
means both Special Account A and Special Account B; and” 
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000) (the Grant).” 
 
Section 1.06. Section 2.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
as follows: 
 
“Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing.” 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.07. The Closing Date in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read “December 31, 2010.” 
 
Section 1.08. Section 2.04 is amended as follows: 
 
“Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but 
not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such 
rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account (as the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the 
respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement; provided however that the commitment charge on the Grant shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified 
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.” 
 
Section 1.09. Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby 
amended as follows: 
 
“(b) 
“The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Financing 
the amount allocated from time to time under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) to 
PamirEnergy under a subsidiary loan agreement entered between the Borrower 
and PamirEnergy, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association, which shall include the principal terms and conditions specified 
in paragraph (c) of this section.”  
 
Section 1.10. Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby 
amended as follows:  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
“The principal terms of the conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall be as follows: (i) funds withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have a 
term of twenty five (25) years including a grace period of ten (10) years; (ii) the 
interest rate on the amount withdrawn and outstanding from the Credit Account 
from time to time from categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall be six percent (6%) 
per annum, except for the period from July 1, 2008 through to 2011, when 
payment on interest equivalent to four and three quarter of a percent (4.75%) 
shall be deferred, such deferred amount to be paid to the Republic of Tajikistan 
from 2012 over fifteen (15) years or as otherwise determined by the Parties 
following a review of PamirEnergy in 2011, and on terms and conditions 
mutually acceptable to PamirEnergy, the Republic of Tajikistan and the 
Association; (iii) funds withdrawn from the Grant Account shall have a term of 
twenty (20) years including a grace period of ten (10) years; (iv) the interest rate 
on the amount withdrawn and outstanding from the Grant Account from time to 
time from categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall be three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum; (v) the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in U.S. Dollars; 
and (vi) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable to the Borrower 
shall be the equivalent in U.S. Dollars of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding such equivalent to be expressed as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account 
on account of expenditures incurred by PamirEnergy.” 
 
Section 1.11. Section 3.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the Grant, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.” 
 
Section 1.12. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.” 
 
 
Section 1.13. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.  
 
Section 1.14. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 1.15. All other provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, 
including Schedules 2 and 4 shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
(a) the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; (b) the 
execution and delivery of the Amending Project Agreement on behalf of PamirEnergy 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (c) the 
execution and delivery of  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and 
PamirEnergy, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing: (a) that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (b) that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by PamirEnergy and is legally binding upon Pamir Energy in 
accordance with its terms; and (c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Pamir Energy and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and Pamir Energy in accordance with its terms 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By: /s/ Safarali Najmiddinov  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Chiara Bronchi  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ANNEX 1 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of 
the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed 
in SDR 
Equivalent) 
 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
Amount of the 
Grant 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
(1) Works 
 
2,700,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
and 90% of 
local 
expenditures 
80,000 100% 
(2) Goods 
 
(a)  cement and 
steel 
 
(b)  other goods 
 
163,839.89 
 
4,486,160.11 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory 
cost) and 90% 
of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
 
0
1,500,000 
100% 
(3) Technical 
Assistance 
 
200,000 100% 
20,000 
100% 
(4) Emergency 
Assistance 
 
350,000 100% 
0 
100% 
(5) Unallocated   
 
0
0
TOTAL 7,900,000
1,600,000
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that: (a) with respect to the Credit, withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 630,000, may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after March 15, 2002; and (b) with respect to the 
Grant, withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
870,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 7, 2007. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ANNEX 2 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means in the case of Special Account A, 
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and means in the case of Special Account B, Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account 
A
and an amount equivalent to $300,000 from the Grant Account and deposited into 
Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation under Special 
Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account A and Special Account B have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account A or Special 
Account B shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into Special Account A or Special 
Account B of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and 
Page  11
-
10 
-
deposit into Special Account A or Special Account B such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of Special Account A or Special Account B, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into Special Account A or Special Account B at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account and deposit into Special Account 
A
or Special Account B such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of Special Account A or 
Special Account B for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
or the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account A or Special Account 
B: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
Page  12
-
11 
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A and 
Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of Special Account A or Special Account B: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into Special Account A or Special Account B (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into Special Account A or Special Account B shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account A or Special Account B will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account A or Special 
Account B. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
Page  13
-
12 
-
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
