                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR00001513



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-36820 IDA-H3810 TF-50589)

                                  ON AN
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.9 MILLION (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

  AND AN ADDITIONAL INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT
                            IN THE AMOUNT OF
              SDR 1.6 MILLION (US$2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

 AND AN INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION FINANCING CONSISTING OF:
                            AN “A? LOAN
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.5 MILLION
          AND AN EQUITY SUBSCRIPTION OF UP TO US$3.5 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                             PAMIR ENERGY COMPANY

                                        FOR THE

                         PAMIR PRIVATE POWER PROJECT

                         IN THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                      June 28, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2010)

                 Currency Unit = Somoni
                     1.00 = US$ 0.23
                 US$ 1.00 = 4.40 Somoni

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 – December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         Asian Development Bank
AKDN        Aga Khan Development Network
AKFED       Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development
CapEx       Capital Expenditures (Pamir Energy Company‟s own funds)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
FM          Financial Management
FMR         Financial Management Report
GBAO        Gorno Badakshan Autonomous Oblast
GoT         Government of Tajikistan
HPP         Hydro Power Plant
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IFI         International Financial Institution
IFR         Interim Financial Report
KfW         Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LICUS       Low Income Countries Under Stress
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M         Operations and maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PEC         Pamir Energy Company
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SECO        State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (Switzerland)
WBG         World Bank Group

                Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
              Country Director: Motoo Konishi
               Sector Manager: Ranjit J. Lamech
          Project Team Leader: Imtiaz Hizkil
             ICR Team Leader: Imtiaz Hizkil
                                                    TAJIKISTAN
                                              Pamir Private Power Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
  MAP IBRD 31770 ........................................................................................................ 50
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Pamir Private Power
Country:                Tajikistan              Project Name:
                                                                          Project
                                                                          IDA-36820,IDA-
Project ID:             P075256                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          H3810,TF-50589
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TAJIKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 7.90M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.29M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 8.29M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Pamir Energy Company
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Pamir Energy Company
 International Finance Corporation
 Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development (AKFED)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/31/2001     Effectiveness:             03/31/2003        03/31/2003
                                                                                  07/31/2008
Appraisal:            03/18/2002     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/29/2010
Approval:             06/27/2002     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2006        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Satisfactory       Overall Borrower    Satisfactory


                                                i
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                  100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  33                  33
Pollution management and environmental health                           33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                       34                  34

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                         Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                      Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Imtiaz Hizkil                         Raghuveer Y. Sharma
ICR Team Leader:           Imtiaz Hizkil
ICR Primary Author:        Peggy Janice Masterson


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is, through private sector involvement, to improve the
reliability and enhance the quantity of supply of electricity in the Gorno Badakshan
Autonomous Oblast (GBAO) region in a financially, environmentally and socially
sustainable way.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target      Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
                Sign Concession Agreement between PamirEnergy and Government of
Indicator 1 :
                Tajikistan
                Concession Agreement Private                                Private
Value
                signed at appraisal (May Concessionaire                     Concessionaire
quantitative or
                24, 2002) for a term of 25 operating                        operating
Qualitative)
                years.                     satisfactorily.                  satisfactorily.
Date achieved 05/24/2002                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
                Target 100% achieved and expected to continue for duration of Concession
(incl. %
                Agreement.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Increased electricity sales in GBAO region
                                                                            174,395 MWh in
Value
                                           200,000                          2009;
quantitative or 135,000 MWh/year
                                           MWh/year                         163,215 MWh in
Qualitative)
                                                                            2010
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
                Target 82% achieved in 2010. Generation was slightly lower than envisaged in
(incl. %
                view of lower demand.
achievement)
                Residential consumers, especially the poorer section, consuming desired level of
Indicator 3 :
                electricity.
Value
                                           22 hours/day in                  22-24 hours/day in
quantitative or 3 hours/day in winter
                                           winter                           winter
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments        Target 100% achieved. The above electricity supply is to the main grid area,
(incl. %        which covers 80% of the electricity consumption in GBAO. Moreover, since
achievement) 2008 PamirEnergy (PEC) has exported electricity to Afghanistan.
Indicator 4 : PamirEnergy improving collection rates.
                                                                            Collections were
Value
                                           Collection rates of              100.35% of sales
quantitative or Collection rates of 40%
                                           95%                              for the year ending
Qualitative)
                                                                            December 31, 2010
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)




                                               iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Implementation of the agreed Environmental Management Plan
                                             Implementation of                 Implementation of
Value             Environmental              the agreed                        the agreed
(quantitative     Management Plan            Environmental                     Environmental
or Qualitative)   prepared at appraisal.     Management Plan                   Management Plan
                                             is satisfactory.                  is satisfactory.
Date achieved     06/30/2002                 12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments          Target 100% achieved. WB environmental specialist reviewed the
(incl. %          implementation of EMP during site visits in September 2009 and September
achievement)      2010 and found it satisfactory.
                  Maintaining the maximum average tariffs in US cents/kWh as agreed in the
Indicator 2 :
                  Concession Agreement.
                                             3.00 US
                                             cents/kWh with a
Value                                                                          3.25 US cents/kWh
                                             tariff formula
(quantitative     0.4 US cents/kWh                                             maximum average
                                             allowing
or Qualitative)                                                                tariff
                                             adjustments for
                                             inflation
Date achieved     01/01/2001                 12/31/2010                        01/01/2010
Comments          Target 100% achieved. This tariff is higher than the 2009 tariff of 2.89
(incl. %          cents/kWh and is likely to remain in line with the Concession Agreement in the
achievement)      future.
                  Annually achieve the following financial performance targets: PamirEnergy
Indicator 3 :
                  maintains a minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.2
Value                                        Minimum Debt                      Debt Service
(quantitative     Not available at appraisal Service Coverage                  Coverage Ratio of
or Qualitative)                              Ratio of 1.2                      4.48
Date achieved     12/31/2002                 12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved.
achievement)
                Minimum standards for service to individual customers: Voltage % change of
Indicator 4 :
                nominal and Frequency Hz
                                           Voltage +/- 10%
Value                                                                          Voltage: 210-220 V
                                           of nominal;
(quantitative   Not available at appraisal                                     Frequency 49-50
                                           Frequency 50 Hz
or Qualitative)                                                                Hz
                                           +/- 5%
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved. Voltage and frequency were within the targeted range.
achievement)
                Minimium standards for service to individual customers. Maximum duration of
Indicator 5 :
                outage for rupture of conductor, foreign obstacle on line, failure of insulators,


                                                iv
                breakage or failure of pole, fuse burn-out
Value
(quantitative   Not available               24 hours                           Less than 10 hours
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator has significantly improved and exceeded the end of project target.
achievement)
                Minimum standards for service to individual customers. Maximum duration of
Indicator 6 : outage for failure of transformer, circuit breaker, or substation equipment, when
                spare parts must be obtained in Khorog
Value
(quantitative   Not available               48 hours                           Less than 20 hours
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
                This indicator has significantly improved with maximum duration of outage
(incl. %
                reduced to half the end of project target.
achievement)
                Minimum standards for service to individual customers. Maximum duration of
Indicator 7 : outage for transformer, circuit breaker or substation equipment failure when
                spare parts must be obtained outside the region.
Value
(quantitative   Not available               30 days                            Less than 16 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
                The maximum duration of outage has been reduced to almost half the end project
(incl. %
                target.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Technical losses in the transmission and distirbution network reduced.
                Not available at appraisal,
Value           although the financial
(quantitative   analysis indicated that     8%                                 19.9%
or Qualitative) losses were estimated at
                10%
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                This figure reflects both technical and non-technical losses as PamirEnergy
Comments
                cannot calculate them separately. PEC reduced the total losses from 39% in
(incl. %
                2006 and 24% in 2009 to 19.9% in 2010, a significant improvement in total loss
achievement)
                reduction.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     11/26/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/25/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     12/31/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00


                                                v
 4     06/28/2004        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.00
 5     12/17/2004        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 4.46
 6     06/24/2005        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 6.75
 7     06/30/2006        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                10.71
 8     06/29/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                11.11
 9     06/30/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                11.11
 10    12/29/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                11.21
 11    12/28/2009        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         11.67
 12    12/20/2010        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         12.65


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional IDA Grant of SDR
                                                     1.6 million (US$2.5 million
                                                     equivalent) was approved on
                                                     July 31, 2008, to cover the costs
                                                     associated with a financing gap
 07/31/2008       N       S       S          11.21   caused by the unexpected need
                                                     to restore and repair equipment
                                                     and facilities at the Pamir I
                                                     Hydro Power Plan, after a
                                                     catastrophic flooding on
                                                     February 5, 2007.
                                                     Cancellation of SDR 768,000
                                                     (US$1.2 million equivalent) of
                                                     the IDA Grant which were
                                                     expected to remain unutilized at
                                                     the Closing Date. PEC
 12/29/2010       N       S     MS           12.65   managed to complete critical
                                                     works through various
                                                     procurement methods and
                                                     several other financial sources.
                                                     Less funds were spent than
                                                     initially planned.




                                         vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Tajikistan was the poorest country in the former Soviet Union, with an estimated income per capita
of about US$160, and the Gorno Badakshan Autonomous Regions (GBAO) was the poorest region
in Tajikistan. The Government had limited resources to provide basic public services for its
population, let alone carry out public investment to prevent the decay of the extensive infrastructure
inherited from the Soviet era. Tajikistan had an open economy with no effective borders with its
CIS neighbors. Merchandise exports (two thirds of which were aluminum and cotton) accounted
for 63 percent of GDP in 1999. Political and economic instability, geographic isolation and
corruption had deterred foreign investors. Foreign direct investment to Tajikistan was extremely
small -- US$10 million in 2000 and US$24 million in 2001. Tajikistan was one of the Low Income
Countries under Stress (LICUS) group of countries.

The Bank Group‟s 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) emphasized a strategy that supported
sustainable, employment-inducing investment, support for privatization with particular emphasis on
infrastructure and improving the quality of social and institutional capacity. It emphasized
assistance with repair of war damage, promoting privatization, assisting the most vulnerable and
developing/restructuring rural infrastructure. The Project addressed these CAS goals, particularly
those of privatizing infrastructure and developing rural infrastructure.

Tajikistan‟s energy resource endowment was predominantly hydro-electricity, with an estimated
hydroelectric potential of about 40,000 MW, of which just over 4,000 MW had been exploited. The
imbalance in energy resources created a deficit problem for Tajikistan, since hydropower potential
was reduced in winter when glacial melt was least and demand was highest. As a result, Tajikistan
imported electricity as well as fossil fuels in winter to meet energy needs. In 1999, energy imports
totaled US$103 million (electricity, natural gas and petroleum derivatives), while exports (primarily
electricity) amounted to just US$17.5 million. Tajikistan‟s power system was made up of three
separate power systems: the northern, the southern and the Gorno Badakshan Autonomous Oblast
(GBAO) electrical systems. The operational condition of the physical infrastructure had deteriorated
significantly during the 1990s, resulting in very high network losses and requiring during winter the
importation of even more energy to meet the demand.           The Government maintained electricity
tariffs at very low levels, with tariffs at about 0.7 US cents/kWh on average, and this level was
insufficient to cover even the operating costs.

With assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) the Government adopted a strategy for
the energy sector to expand and diversify Tajikistan‟s energy system to supply reliable, efficient and
affordable energy to more people, support poverty reduction, improve the standard of living and
bring economic development to rural areas. Its sector policies were designed to (i) facilitate the
development of a legal and regulatory framework for efficient operations; (ii) increase the level of
electricity tariffs to full cost recovery; (iii) encourage private sector participation in the generation
and supply of power (by enacting the Energy Law); and (iv) promote energy conservation.

Consistent with the overall sector policy framework, the Project was designed to cover the electricity
system in the GBAO region. The Project would: (a) develop indigenous hydro resources to meet
electricity demand, particularly in winter; (b) mobilize external resources, over 60 percent of them in
risk capital, to expand the generation capacity and to rehabilitate the transmission distribution



                                                   1
networks; (c) bring private sector expertise to operate and manage part of the Tajik power system;
and (d) agree on a 25-year tariff path, under a Concession Agreement.

As the electricity system of GBAO was virtually separate from the other systems in the country, over
70 percent of the energy in GBAO before the break-up of the Soviet Union was provided by diesel
generators run on imported diesel fuel. Little attempt was made to develop locally available and
relatively low cost hydropower. When Tajikistan became independent in 1991, diesel deliveries
virtually ceased, and with them, a reliable electricity supply. GBAO was plunged into crisis, and
became the poorest region of the poorest of all former Soviet Republics. Power capacity in the
region was composed of several micro-hydroelectric plants and eleven small and medium-scale
hydroelectric plants, two of which, Pamir I (14 MW) and Khorog (7.2 MW), accounted for 84
percent of installed capacity at that time. No functioning diesel capacity remained. The
transmission and distribution system of GBAO was in very poor shape, having been largely
destroyed in the civil war. Only 15 percent of the 435 km of 35 kV lines was still in service. Access
was nearly universal, and the power system continued to provide electricity; however, outages were
scheduled on a rotational basis, particularly during winter, and the power cuts had become more
frequent and prolonged. There was no power in most districts of GBAO in winter.

In 1994, with funding from the US Government, and in cooperation with the Government of
Tajikistan, the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) put into operation two of the planned four
turbines at the Pamir I station (which had been planned and partially built at the end of the Soviet
period), and Pamir I became operational with 14 MW out of its 28 MW designed output. Even with
half of the designed capacity of the Pamir I station on line, 43 percent of residents had no electricity
during the winter and 10 percent had no electricity at any time during the year, despite “enjoying? a
connection to the grid. Winter temperatures in the GBAO fell as low as minus 30 centigrade. In
many areas, schools and hospitals were forced to close in winter due to lack of heating. As a result,
people resorted to cutting down the few trees in the area to keep from freezing in winter. The
Department of Forestry estimated that from 1992-2002, 70 percent of the region‟s tree cover had
been lost to firewood collection. In some cases, people cut down fruit trees for firewood,
aggravating the food shortage in the spring. Indoor pollution was acute, the natural resource base
was being degraded and economic activity was stifled.

In early 1999, the AKDN and the local administration of GBAO requested the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) to review the feasibility of completing Pamir I, including an upstream regulating
structure to ensure adequate winter flow, as the optimal solution to the energy crisis. The Project
was developed jointly by IFC and the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development (AKFED).

The Project was designed to reconcile the commercial objectives of private investors with the social
objectives of the Government in an innovative way and had several unique features. It offered a
viable model of how to provide infrastructure to the poorest communities. It combined private
partnership with the concept of Output Based Aid, whereby aid (the Swiss grant funds, through a
Trust Fund administered by IDA, TF-50589 of US$5 million) was provided to a privately owned and
operated infrastructure service provider upon delivery of an output (e.g. electricity services) to
targeted beneficiaries. It was also a successful example of IFC/IDA collaboration and was intended
to serve as a model for Tajikistan as well as other countries.




                                                  2
Although the development impact was expected to be high, the Project was also a high-risk
investment. It was intended to serve a community that was both extremely poor and heavily
dependent on electricity. The challenge of project design was to ensure affordability.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objective of the Project was, through private sector involvement, to improve the reliability and
enhance the quantity of supply of electricity in the Gorno Badakshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO)
region in a financially, environmentally and socially sustainable way. Key indicators from the
Supplemental Letter were:
     Increased electricity sales in GBAO region from 135,000 MWh/year to 190,000 MWh/year
       in 2006 and 200,000 MWh/year in 2010;
     Implementation of the Environmental Monitoring Management Plan (EMMP);
     Maintenance of the maximum average tariffs in US cents/kWh as per the Concession
       Agreement between the Government and PamirEnergy;
     Payment of bills for electricity consumption by Budget Organizations to PamirEnergy, in
       cash, within 30 days of billing; 1
     PamirEnergy annual achievement of the following financial performance targets: debt
       service coverage ratio of 1.2; collection rates of 90 percent in 2006 and 95 percent by 2010;
     Reduced interruptions of supply, voltage and frequency fluctuations;
     Technical losses in the transmission and distribution network reduced to 8 percent;

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and Key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The benefits from the Project were expected to be primarily concentrated on consumers connected to
the main grid in GBAO, and the isolated grid taking power from the Vanj hydropower plant.

The main benefits were to be derived from improving the electricity supply, particularly in winter,
and subsequently enhancing the standard of living in one of the poorest regions in the world. The
Public-Private Partnership approach with Output Based Aid would provide a model for delivering
infrastructure services to poor consumers and enhance the country‟s opportunity to attract
investments. Environmental and health benefits were expected from reducing fuel wood related
emissions by increased use of clean hydropower for heating and cooking.

1.5 Original Components.
The Project would generate and supply electricity under a 25-year Concession awarded to a
private concessionaire, Pamir Energy Company (PEC). The Concession would involve taking
control of the assets of Barki Tajik in GBAO, which served around 250,000 people. The
Project comprised:



1
    This indicator was in Para A2 of the PAD and in the Supplemental Letter, but was not in Annex 1 of the PAD.




                                                           3
      (a) Completion of the Pamir I Hydropower Plant to its original design capacity of 28 MW
       from the current 14 MW by installing units 3 and 4, along with an associated regulating
       structure at Lake Yashilkul;
    (b) Rehabilitation of other hydro plants - Units 1 and 2 of Pamir I, Khorog, Vanj and
       Namangut;
    (c) Rehabilitation and reinforcement of substations, transmission and distribution lines; and
    (d) Technical Assistance to PEC for: Project Engineering and Implementation, Operations
       and Management and Environmental and Social Impact monitoring and mitigation.
The Project was expected to cost US$24.4 million, including supply of equipment,
construction/installation, consulting services and contingencies. Interest during construction
amounted to US$2.0 million, for a total capital expenditure of US$26.4 million.

1.6 Revised Components
The Project components were not revised, except that following the catastrophic flooding in
February 2007, the description of the Project was revised to add “Emergency Assistance, provision
of goods, works and consultants‟ services for Pamir 1 Power plant restoration and financial
recovery?. Under the Additional IDA Grant to cover an unanticipated cost overrun due to the
catastrophic flooding of Pamir I, the focus was on the rehabilitation of plant infrastructure and
provision of parts and equipment to ensure the plant‟s long-term sustained operation and prevent
further accidents.

1.7 Other significant changes
In December 2006, the closing date was extended from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007,
along with a reallocation among disbursement categories. Although key construction and equipment
deliveries were completed satisfactorily in 2006, the extension of the closing date was needed to
enable installation and testing prior to contractor payment.

In December 2007, an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement extended the closing date
to December 31, 2008, to support the restoration of damage caused by catastrophic floods in
February 2007. It included reallocating surplus funds from the SDR/Dollar exchange rate and
revision of the project description to include “Emergency Assistance, provision of goods, works and
consultants‟ services for Pamir 1 Power plant restoration and financial recovery?, and provided for
audits by international independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The Project Agreement
was amended at the same time to add the word “international? before independent auditors and
revise the procurement methods.

Following Board approval of the Additional IDA Grant in July 2008, both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Project Agreement were amended in November 2008 to include the additional
IDA Grant of SDR 1.6 million (US$2.5 million equivalent). The project scope and development
objective remained unchanged. Project management was based on existing arrangements, but relied
on a newly formed Project Planning and Implementation Department with staff from the PIU of the
original project. Incremental costs related to restoration of PEC operating capacity after flood
damage were US$8.3 million, of which US$0.5 million had already been covered by surplus funds
from the original Pamir Private Power Project. The financing plan was revised to include: SDR 1.6
million (US$2.5 million equivalent) from the IDA Grant, US$4.4 million from insurance and
US$0.9 million from Pamir Energy‟s (PEC‟s) own funds. Disbursement arrangements were revised


                                                4
to allow 100 percent financing for activities covered by the additional grant and to allow retroactive
financing of up to 56 percent of the IDA grant amount for eligible expenditures incurred after June 7,
2007.    Additional methods of procurement were added. The Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 2010. The onlending terms to Pamir Energy were revised so that the repayment terms
were 15 years (2013-2027) instead of 10 years, and the interest rates were revised.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis: There was extensive project preparation and design work
before approval of the project. In 1999, IFC commissioned a consultant study to review alternative
energy sources. This study confirmed that the proposed expansion of the Pamir hydroelectric plant
was the most economic and the most environmentally acceptable alternative to provide electricity in
the Project region. In late 1999, the consultant engineer conducted a detailed study of the Project
that included: (i) an assessment of the construction costs and schedule; (ii) a review of
environmental impacts; (iii) an assessment of the ability of consumers to pay appropriate electricity
tariffs; and (iv) a brief audit of the electric utility services in GBAO. Based on the study, it was clear
that the Project would need to include the upgrading of transmission and distribution, and the project
company would also have to take over the supply functions (metering, billing and collection) to
ensure a viable project. Consequently, AKFED and IFC decided to expand the project from a focus
on generation to a full utility project and submitted a proposal in January 2000 to the Government of
Tajikistan for the establishment of a private company to manage and expand the electricity supply
system in GBAO. IFC drew on Swiss and IFC trust funds amounting to almost US$1 million and
committed significant staff resources to structure the Project.

Assessment of Project Design: The project design was appropriate and innovative. IFC took the
lead in (a) identifying the most effective solution over the short to medium term; (b) evaluating the
ability of consumers in the region to pay for electricity; (c) developing a concession framework
around which a privately-driven investment could be built; and (d) involving IDA in the Project.
IDA‟s participation was crucial to the Project coming to fruition, as IDA‟s concessional financing
was critical for the project‟s viability, i.e., to enable reliable electricity supply with a levelized tariff
of about US 2.1 cents/kWh. IDA‟s involvement was designed to reconcile the commercial
objectives of the private sector and the social objectives of keeping the electricity tariffs as low as
possible. The Project would ensure that a significant private investment of US$26 million would
occur in a country and region that found it difficult to attract private investors. IDA and IFC joint
involvement was also critical in mobilizing financing from the Swiss Government to enable the
Government of Tajikistan to meet its social protection obligations towards the Project, since a
considerable proportion of the residential consumers would be unable to pay even the US 2.1 2
cents/kWh tariffs. By the time of IDA project preparation/appraisal, all of the major steps had been
completed: engineering studies, an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment study which
included extensive public consultations, evaluation of construction arrangements and project
management alternatives; legal representation assistance to the Government; preparation of a


2
  The weighted average tariffs were very low, about 0.08 US cents in 2007. The tariff level of 2.1 US cents for the
entire country, except GBAO, served by Barki Tojik, has been realized only in the year 2010 .



                                                           5
detailed Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan; and a design for a community outreach
program to promote the capacity of communities to manage their power resources for the support of
public services and for the benefit of community-based enterprises. All applicable World Bank
Group safeguards policies and guidelines were considered and addressed during the environmental
and social assessment of the Project. The initial project design was adjusted so as to be in
compliance with WBG safeguard policies and guidelines and appropriate environmental and social
impact mitigation measures were included.

Following extensive discussions between AKFED, IFC, IDA (whose involvement necessitated
observance of the World Bank Procurement Guidelines) and the Government, the approach to
project implementation during construction relied on the appointment of an experienced
international engineering and construction management firm to be appointed as the Owner‟s
Engineer to be responsible for detailed project design, selection of contractors, acquisition of
material and supervision of construction.        Considerable attention was paid to procurement
packaging, as it was considered that the Project would not attract serious interest from international
contractors, given its remote location.

Adequacy of Government’s Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement and Participatory
Processes: The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to the Project and its objective
(see Section 5.2 (a)). Stakeholders (Government, AKFED, IFC) were closely involved in the design
and preparation of the Project as described above. An extensive participatory process was followed
during project design and preparation to ensure community support, with 17 public hearings
involving a broad cross section of the population.

Adequacy of Risk Assessment. The project team correctly described the Project as a high impact,
high risk project; all risks were covered including market risks, revenue risks, technical risks
implementation risks, operational risks, financing risks, economic risks, political risks, political
stability risks and legal framework risks in the two page risk table in the PAD. The market risk of
lower than expected demand, which was not expected to be an issue due to the severe shortages of
electricity, materialized during Project implementation and a Financial Restructuring Plan had to be
put in place to improve the financial performance of PEC.

2.2 Implementation

Work carried out prior to Pamir Energy‟s take-over of the Concession revealed that faulty metering
was a significant problem. In 2003, PEC with assistance from IDA, decided to undertake a
comprehensive Re-Metering Program over 18 months in order to reduce losses.

Activities of the original credit were implemented satisfactorily, and equipment deliveries under the
original project were completed in December 2006, but additional time was required for installation
and testing, so the Closing Date was extended to December 2007. The capacity of Pamir 1 HPP
was doubled to 28 MW, winter water flow for generation was enhanced through a regulating
structure at the upstream Lake Yashilkul, and other system assets were upgraded.

On February 5, 2007, catastrophic flooding severely damaged Pamir HPP-1 equipment and
infrastructure, forcing the plant‟s shutdown, causing a 67 percent energy loss of PEC‟s power



                                                 6
generation capacity in the main grid and affecting over 18,000 consumers at the peak of the winter
period. The flood affected the lower level of the power plant, housing the turbines, and the
transformer yard outside the power house. The electric and electromechanical equipment in the
hydropower plant were severely damaged. Electronic protection and control instrumentation and
equipment were also damaged. Low and medium voltage switchgears and components of plant
auxiliary services, eg., batteries, building services, communication channels, etc. required complete
replacement. Of the four turbine-generator units, unit #2 was completely destroyed. Units #1, #3
and #4 were damaged to varying degrees. The flooding was deemed to have been caused by an
airlock from a piece of ice from the sedimentation basin, which draws water from the River Gunt
through the penstocks to the plant turbines. The ice airlock clogged the penstock, and subsequently,
under the increasing water pressure, moved in and blew the head cover of unit #2, unleashing the
flood in the power house, within 1-2 minutes.

PEC with support from AKFED reacted swiftly to address the problem and its aftermath on multiple
fronts. The Government helped with emergency food and fuel supplies. World Bank and IFC teams
arrived on site to help design an emergency action plan whose implementation led to recovering 67
percent of the plant‟s capacity. Rehabilitation efforts under the Additional IDA Grant approved in
July 2008, focused on restoring the plant to its full capacity and sustainability, so that the original
Project Development Objective could be achieved, and on implementing measures to prevent further
occurrences of these problems and addressing longer term sustainability issues. At the time the
Additional IDA Grant was approved, key engineering studies had been completed, and three of the
four units at the plant had been permanently restored. Critical remaining activities included the
restoration of unit #2, supply of spare parts and auxiliary equipment for the turbine generator units
and finding a full solution to the issues of sedimentation and ice formation at the regulating basin of
the plant in order to minimize the possibility of future accidents.

In late 2006/early 2007, the debt burden on PEC increased drastically as a result of losses and
investment requirements which turned out to be much higher than estimated at appraisal. In order to
alleviate the debt burden on the company, stakeholders agreed on a Financial Restructuring Plan in
June 2008 that focused on continuing the operation of PEC on a commercial basis and addressing the
issues of higher than anticipated losses and investment requirements. AKFED‟s existing
subordinated debt and additional contribution were converted to equity, and IFC‟s existing senior
loan was converted to equity. The existing on-lent IDA loan repayment terms were revised to a
repayment term of 15 years (2013-2027) instead of 10 years. Some interest was written off and
some was deferred. Stakeholders also agreed on measures to reduce losses, optimize operating costs,
improve collections and enhance revenue within the full application of the authorization given in the
Concession Agreement. The Financial Restructuring Plan ensured cash flow to the company to
cover operating and capital expenses, enabling annual investments in critically needed network
improvements.

Close supervision and ownership by IFC and AKFED contributed to greater accountability of PEC‟s
management and timely implementation. Implementation of the Private-Public Partnership
mechanism resulted in greater transparency and better operational performance in the utility.

Cancellation. Several restoration activities were implemented by PEC using its own and other
funds, thus, leaving about US$ 1.2 million unutilized. Based on a request from the Government of



                                                  7
Tajikistan (the Borrower) SDR 768,000 (equivalent US$ 1.2 million) of the Grant was cancelled on
December 29, 2010.        The remaining undisbursed balance at closing (SDR 362,359.82,
US$583,043.97 equivalent) of the original IDA Credit was canceled on May 5, 2011. The remaining
undisbursed balance of the IDA Grant (SDR 80,223.07) was cancelled on January 10, 2011.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization M&E Design.
The Project included adequate development and outcome indicators to assess progress in meeting the
project development objective and monitor the achievement of intermediate results. End of project
targets were indicated for both outcome and intermediate/output indicators, but no baseline was
given for the output indicator “technical losses in the transmission and distribution network reduced
to 8 percent?.

M&E Implementation. PEC regularly collected data concerning the indicators, and the actual
figures were compared to the target values and were available to IDA and PEC‟s stakeholders (GoT,
AKFED (70 percent share) and IFC (30 percent share) in both the quarterly FMRs/IFRs and PEC‟s
monthly progress reports, and an annual report each December.

M&E Utilization. PEC and its stakeholders utilized the reports for decision making when planning
capital expenditures, measures to improve collections and reduce losses, and in the discussions and
agreement on the PEC Financial Restructuring Plan.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment.
The Project was subject to the Bank‟s OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats (OD
4.04), Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) and Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37), Projects on
International Waterways (Op/BP/GP 7.50) (formal confirmation was issued by IDA that notification
of riparians was not required), Policy on Child and Forced Labor (IFC), Environmental Health and
Safety Guidelines for Electric Power Transmission and Distribution (IFC).

The Project was rated as a category B Project because it was a rehabilitation, upgrading and
expansion of an existing power generation, transmission and distribution system. All applicable
WBG safeguards policies and guidelines were considered and addressed during the environment and
social assessments of the Project. The initial project design was adjusted to be in compliance with
WBG safeguards policies and guidelines and appropriate environmental and social impact mitigation
measures were included and monitored throughout the Project. A comprehensive Environmental
Monitoring and Management Plan (EMMP) set out measures to ensure compliance with all the
applicable Safeguards Policies during the construction and operation phases of the Project and Pamir
Energy took all necessary measures to implement the EMMP in a timely manner. IDA fielded
several environmental safeguard missions to review PEC‟s compliance with the EMMP, including
two comprehensive safeguard reviews in September 2009 and September 2010, which concluded
that the EMPP continued to be implemented satisfactorily, with no major deviations observed during
the site visits.

Financial Management.
The financial management arrangements at PEC, including accounting and reporting, internal
control procedures, planning and budgeting, external audits, funds flow, organization and staffing
arrangements were acceptable to the Bank. During 2002-2007 the FM ratings were consistently rated


                                                 8
Highly Satisfactory. During this period both the entity and project audits were carried out by
auditors acceptable to the Bank, with timely submission of all the reports. However, due to changes
in the national legislation for audit services (effective on March 3, 2007), which required the
auditors to have local registration and local staff, PEC was unable to extend its contract with its
auditors and had to recruit new auditors, which caused delays in the receipt of the audit reports for
the year ending December 31, 2009. Subsequently, in 2009-2010 the FM ratings were downgraded
to Moderately Satisfactory and remained such at the project closing mainly due to delays with
submission of financial management and audit reports, which were received with a delay but were
acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement.
Procurement arrangements were considered satisfactory for the activities under the original Credit.
All the planned procurement activities were completed on time and within budget. Procurement
under the Project proved challenging, especially with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
Limited International Bidding (LIB) packages. Interest from potential suppliers/contractors in
project bids was weak, due to the remote location of Pamir HPP and transportation difficulties,
especially in winter. Despite efforts to enhance interest of potential bidders, only two bidders
participated in most of the tenders, and in one contract (supply of electrical and mechanical
components), no bidder purchased bidding documents. Bid submission deadlines had to be
frequently extended, and procurement often required re-bidding. Even for National Competitive
Bidding, there were instances where PEC had to extend the submission deadlines and sought
expressions of interest in neighboring countries. As per Bank recommendation, PEC even issued
bidding documents for such potential contractors free of charge in order to maximize competition.
A couple of procurements failed, either because the lowest evaluated responsive bid exceeded the
cost estimate or no firm submitted bids. Because of the urgent need to maximize the production
capability of the power plant during winter, the project team sought a waiver to sign a contract using
Direct Contracting, for purchase of cement, or instead of re-bidding, the contract was financed by
Aga Khan Development Network instead of from the IDA Credit. The Credit Agreement did not
originally provide for the Direct Contracting method of procurement, but it was added later when the
Credit Agreement was amended.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Pamir Energy Company (PEC), a special purpose company for the Project, and operating the 25-year
Concession, was formed under the laws of the Republic of Tajikistan as a joint stock company,
owned 70 percent by AKFED and 30 percent by IFC. The Concession Agreement was signed on
May 24, 2002, by GoT and PEC and provides the policy, regulatory, technical, environmental,
financial and operational framework for the Project, both during the construction and operational
phases. Now that the construction phase has been completed, PEC will continue to manage all
Government-owned electricity assets in GBAO for the remaining 16 years of the Concession
Agreement. PEC, with the support of AKFED, has prepared a business plan for 2010-2015, based
on a new financial model developed by PEC based on its experience of the last several years. Today
Pamir I is a sustainable power plant. The investments made under the project are expected to have a
lifetime of at least 25-30 years. PEC carries out several activities annually at Pamir I to further
improve safety and reliability. Necessary budgets for plant maintenance are allocated annually.
Staff have been trained and participate in annual intensive capacity building programs. PEC has




                                                 9
indicated that the performance indicators of other projects to be implemented by PEC will be similar
to those under the IDA financed Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project remains highly relevant to Tajikistan‟s National Development Strategy for 2006-2015,
whose key priorities include improving public administration, developing the private sector and
attracting investment, and developing human potential. The 2007 power sector strategy developed
by the Government of Tajikistan aims to ensure reliable electricity supply to meet the needs of the
population and productive sectors to sustain growth and contribute to poverty reduction. The target
is to become self-reliant by 2017 and gradually develop power exports and strengthen regional
cooperation to increase electricity export revenues and generate a new source of growth. It fits into
the “Production Block? on food security, agriculture, infrastructure, energy and industry of the
Bank‟s Poverty Reduction Strategy for 2010-2012. The Project continues to be relevant to the goal
of the Country Partnership Strategy for FY10-13, to improve the reliability of electricity and gas
services and increase energy support potential. The Project was designed to reconcile the
commercial objectives of the private sector and provide reliable power supply to the poorest
mountainous region and the social objectives of keeping the electricity tariffs as low as possible;
which continues to be relevant to both the Government strategy and the current CPS and Poverty
Reduction Strategy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project Development Objective has been achieved. The Project generates and supplies
electricity in the GBAO region under a 25-year Concession awarded to a private concessionaire,
Pamir Energy Company (PEC). Before the Project daily power supply in GBAO was about 3 hours
per day, especially in winter. PEC now provides around 24 hours of power supply per day in winter
to customers of the main grid (over 70 percent of the total customers); this excludes some remote
areas, where the power supply varies from 8 to 16 hours per day. The supply position is better than
most areas in the rest of the country covered by Barki Tajik. The schools and hospitals can function
properly in winter with available power supply. Annual supply of electricity has increased from
135,000 MWh/year in 2002 before the Project to 174,000 MWh/year in 2009. In 2010 consumption
at 163,215 MWh was slightly lower than the end of project target due to lower demand. Instead of
rationing, which was the norm before the Project, there is now a surplus of energy, which allows
PEC to have a planned maintenance of units in capital repair at the same time, without affecting the
reliable supply of energy. Collection rates have improved from 40 percent before the Project to about
100 percent of sales for the year ending December 31, 2010. Unit 2 at Pamir I HPP was
commissioned in January 2011, and full plant capacity under the original project scope has been
restored. PEC now delivers uninterrupted power supply in its main grid, manages the water flow
from Lake Yashilkul, has resolved the issues with sedimentation and fragile ice, which led to the
catastrophic flooding in February 2007, has improved the reliability of the electro-mechanical parts
of the plant, and has improved the security of the plant (closed circuit television cameras). In 2010
anti-filtration measures were taken at Yashilkul regulating structure which made it possible to
conserve more than 20 million m3 of water at the lake, which provides PEC enough water to deliver
reliable energy to its customers, even if the winter lasted longer than usual. A dredging pump was
procured in 2010, which solved the issue with sediments at Pamir I sedimentation basin. Now PEC
does not have to stop the plant for one month every two years to remove the sediments, thus



                                                10
substantially increasing availability of the units. Two ice blocking systems were built, which solved
the issue of fragile ice getting into the basin and damaging the turbines and bearings. The social
subsidy plan, financed by the government and the Swiss Grant, worked as envisaged through 2011,
protecting the end consumers from higher tariffs. The project is sustainable with transformative
benefits to the poorest region of Tajikistan and has set up a successful example of Public-Private
Partnership in a difficult environment. It displaces the environmentally unfriendly use of diesel and
fire wood for energy supply, as had been the practice in the past; has a well established mechanism
to target subsidy delivery to the most vulnerable population; has set up a culture of commercial
discipline among the consumers and obligation on part of the supplier to serve its consumers.
Although the operational situation of PEC has improved, its consumers would need continued
support with tariff subsidies and PEC would need softer onlending terms to continue its investment
program in the remote areas (financing currently under consideration by KfW (Germany) and SECO
(Switzerland) through the Government of Tajikistan.

3.3 Efficiency
Detailed economic and financial analysis of the project was carried out at the appraisal stage to
estimate the economic and financial efficiency and impact of the project. The economic costs and
benefits of the project were calculated excluding taxes and subsidies. The projection of financial
performance of PEC was done at the appraisal stage for 2002-2012.

Economic analysis: The main economic benefit of the project was the incremental electricity
supplied to consumers as a result of power system investments. Specifically, improvements to the
power system eliminated the significant winter and summer black-outs experienced by the customers.
The main economic costs were the capital investments and the incremental operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs.

The completion stage economic analysis of the project yielded an NPV of US$ 3.9 million and an
EIRR of 12.2%, compared to the appraisal stage NPV of US$ 17.6 million and an EIRR of 19%.
Reduction of economic return of the project is primarily due to a 19% investment cost over-run due
to the catastrophic accident and 2003-2010 electricity sales below the levels projected at appraisal.
Specifically, the total actual project costs were around US$ 31.4 million, compared to the appraisal
stage estimate of US$ 26.4. The actual electricity sales in 2003-2010 were 35-40% lower than
projected at appraisal (see Annex 3 for details). The overall economic return considering the other
non quantified benefits such as positive environmental impact, improved quality of life (homes,
schools and hospitals and businesses) would be significantly higher.

Financial analysis: The main financial benefit of the project is the incremental financial revenue
that accrues to PEC due to incremental supply of electricity and higher tariffs. The financial benefits
from incremental supply of electricity were estimated at the weighted average end-user tariffs. The
financial costs are the capital investment costs and the incremental O&M costs.

The completion stage financial appraisal of investments yielded an NPV of US$ (2.3) million and an
FIRR of 8.9%. The appraisal stage project company level financial analysis estimated the FIRR at
9.8% (see Annex 3 for details). The reason for financial under performance of PEC are the higher
actual investment costs, and downward revision of electricity demand. The global economic




                                                 11
recession has also contributed to lowering the anticipated demand growth with the slowdown of
economic activities.

Financial performance of PEC: The actual financial performance of the company in 2006-2009
was below the appraisal forecast, due to slower tariff increases than anticipated by the Concession
Agreement, lower-than-projected electricity sales that reduced the operating cash flow of the
company, almost two-fold depreciation of TJS/US$ exchange rate, and higher operating costs driven
by over 10% average annual inflation in 2006-2009.

The company‟s operating income and cash flow became positive in 2009 and has improved. The
company‟s ability to meet its short-term and long-term financial obligations improved. Specifically,
in 2009, the company‟s highly liquid assets at hand were more than 14% of the short-term liabilities,
improving from 5% in 2006.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.
Based on Sections 3.1-3.3, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory. The Project was relevant to
the Government‟s National Development Strategy, the latest Poverty Reduction Strategy and the
latest Country Partnership Strategy. The Project successfully met its development objective, has set
up a replicable, successful example of a Public-Private Partnership, and was well justified based on
reasonable economic and financial performance even after the global recession impacts on the
economy.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Reliable energy supply changed the economic life of the poorest region of Tajikistan. Before the
Project, shops and factories used to operate only in summer, as no energy was available in winter.
Today shops, producers and businesses work year round, and consumers are accustomed to have
energy available year round. According to studies in 2009, electricity supplied by hydropower is the
cheapest and cleanest option for lighting, cooking and heating in GBAO, compared to wood, coal,
diesel and other sources. Thus, improving the quantity and reliability of the energy supply in GBAO
had a positive impact on poverty reduction. Before the Project women spent a considerable amount
of time gathering wood for cooking and heating. Today they use electricity for cooking and heating
and have more time for other interests. Indoor air pollution was a major problem before the Project
due to the use of diesel fuel lamps for lighting, and wood for heating. The risk of illnesses due to
indoor air pollution, especially for children, was either removed completely or minimized
significantly. Having a reliable energy supply allowed Government and donors to equip schools
with computers and other technologies. Today every school in GBAO has at least one computer and
more children/youth are comfortable using the new technologies. Health facilities and hospitals can
operate without rationing of electricity, which was common in the 1990s. Some hospitals in the
region have received new electronic medical equipment from donors, which is used daily now that
reliable electricity is the norm.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project included a capacity building program that enabled PEC to improve its performance
throughout Project implementation. The plan included the extensive use of consultants to initially



                                                12
manage project implementation and advise local management going forward, as well as annual
training programs. As part of the capacity building program the PEC General Director and two other
key staff had a technical exchange with Sweden to learn how hydropower plants exposed to similar
harsh winters coped with sedimentation and fragile ice and then implemented measures to resolve
these issues for Pamir I and Khorog HPPs. It was an enormous challenge for PEC to turn around a
historically loss making utility, operated and accepted as a free social good, in the poorest, most
isolated region of the poorest country of the Former Soviet Union, by raising tariffs, increasing
collections, and implementing construction projects at extremely high altitudes, while trying to
maintain budgets, build human resources and deliver financial results. PEC met this challenge by
identifying a qualified local manager who was able to deal with the local community and understand
the nuances of local politics, while at the same time recognizing what is possible and leading
organizational change. In the past the electricity in GBAO had always been subsidized and the
population viewed energy as a free gift, which led to high losses, theft and unwillingness to pay,
which resulted in limited power supply in Khorog and no power supply in the more remote areas.
PEC began by installing meters at the generation plants and further down at the transmission and
distribution network, including meters for end consumers. PEC established disconnection teams, a
Customer Service Center, and a new billing system to make bills accurate. PEC introduced a bonus
system for sales specialists, which increased collections as a percent of sales to more than 100
percent. As electricity supply became more reliable and bills became more accurate and
understandable, people changed their behavior and began to view electricity theft as a crime instead
of as a way to game the system. From the beginning, PEC made serious efforts to improve
community relations, by visiting the communities so that residents could talk directly with the
General Director; PEC worked with TV stations, radios, newspapers, distributed brochures and met
with community leaders to improve PEC‟s reputation and relations with the communities. The
lessons learned by PEC in Bank procurement procedures and developing procurement plans are
being applied by PEC in procurement financed by its own funds.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
In 2006, when energy rationing was common in GBAO, it was inconceivable that PEC would export
electricity to Afghanistan, beginning in 2008. PEC now provides energy year round to over 1000
households in Afghanistan. As a result of the Project, PEC has become a benchmark company for
Central Asia and other countries and is providing consulting services to Afghanistan, Uganda and
Kyrgyzstan.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Moderate, given that the financial performance of PEC is below the targeted level. On the positive
side, the risk is offset by the Concession Agreement, which would continue to be in force for the
next 16 years; the 70 percent equity in PEC held by AKFED and 30 percent by IFC, who would
continue to work with PEC; and the significant improvements in increasing collections and reducing
losses. The economic and financial analysis indicates that the financial health of the company has
turned around to the positive, and with additional export opportunities to Afghanistan being realized,
some of the impact of less than anticipated demand would be partially offset. Moreover, SECO is




                                                 13
considering providing additional grant funds to provide targeted subsidies to the vulnerable sections
through 2014.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
IDA‟s performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. Preparation and appraisal was done
jointly by IFC and IDA, with each organization providing specialist staff who made relevant
contributions to the decisions and report preparation of the two organizations, without duplicating
efforts. All applicable Bank group safeguards policies and guidelines were considered in the design
and addressed during the environment and social assessment of the Project. A socio-economic
survey conducted as part of the environment and social assessment of the Project estimated the
average annual income for the typical project area family and the willingness to pay for energy. The
initial project design was adjusted so as to be in compliance with World Bank Group safeguards
policies and guidelines, and appropriate environmental and social impact mitigation measures were
included. Seventeen public hearings engaging a wide range of the GBAO population including
townspeople, rural villagers, teachers and hospital workers were conducted in October 2000. The
legal framework governing the Project was substantial.3 The Concession Agreement was signed,
the owners‟ engineer had been appointed and was working, and procurement activities had already
begun prior to presentation to the Bank‟s Board of Executive Directors, and the project was
adequately prepared and ready for implementation. The only shortcoming during preparation was
that based on the information provided in the feasibility study, the IDA/IFC team assumed that most
of the consumers were metered with working meters, and that non-technical losses including illegal
connections and improper metering and billing appeared to be moderate (losses were estimated at 10
percent on the main grid and at 20 percent for the remote areas), which proved not to be the case
after Project implementation began, and it was learned that the existing meters were inoperable or
inaccurate. Actual losses reached 30 percent on the main grid and were even higher in the remote
areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
IDA‟s performance during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory. Sufficient budget and
staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised, with a comprehensive
skills mix, and supervision was conducted jointly with IFC. Based on the supervision staff costs in
Annex 4, a complex project such as Pamir Private Power Project requires significantly more
resources than the average supervision coefficient. The Procurement and Financial Management
functions were provided by field based staff, which greatly facilitated Project implementation. The



3
  The legal framework included: the Concession Agreement between PEC and GoT; a Subscription Agreement
between Pamir Invest S.A. and PEC, an Investment Agreement between IFC and PEC, A Shareholders Agreement
between IFC, AKFED, Pamir Invest and PEC, a Project Funds and Share Retention Agreement between IFC and
AKFED/Pamir Invest to provide financing for cost overruns; a Development Credit Agreement between IDA and
the Government, a Project Agreement between IDA and PEC, and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and PEC.



                                                     14
IDA team helped PEC develop a re-metering program to reduce losses. The IDA and IFC teams
responded promptly to the two major crises that arose, the deteriorating financial situation of PEC
during 2006-2008 by developing the Financial Restructuring Plan; and the unexpected catastrophic
flooding in February 2007, which severely damaged the Pamir I Hydropower Plant. The
Management comment on ISR No. 8, commented on the dedication of the IDA and IFC staff, who
worked under extreme conditions (18 hour trip on bad roads, 16 hour workdays, sub-freezing
temperatures at 10,000 feet altitude with no space heating, one meal a day, etc) in March 2007, to
help bring much of Pamir capacity back on-line following the catastrophic accident. IDA also
provided an Additional Grant to ensure that the restoration of Pamir I Hydropower Plant would be
permanent instead of a temporary fix and that the original Project Development Objective could be
achieved.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall IDA Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on IDA‟s performance during the lending and supervision phases as discussed above, the
overall IDA Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government participation in the planning and development of the Project was intensive. Ministers
and senior civil servants participated on a sustained basis in the Working Group charged with
negotiation of the Concession Agreement; the Cabinet and Presidential administration considered it
in detail before giving Government approval; and Parliament ratified critical sections of the
Concession Agreement. Government‟s contribution to this Public-Private Partnership Project
included: (a) contribution of existing electricity assets in GBAO (including all generation,
transmission and distribution facilities) to the Concession; (b) Government‟s request for IDA
financing of US$10 million equivalent, at a time when the IDA allocation for Tajikistan was
severely limited; (c) Government‟s agreement to use the interest rate spread (between the IDA Credit
to Government and the Government‟s on-lending to PEC) to meet part of the costs of social
protection; (d) Government‟s request for grant financing of about US$5 million from the Swiss
Government to enable the Government to meet the remaining costs of social protection; and (e)
Government provided rebates in various taxes to PEC.

During Project implementation, Government continued its support to the Project and to PEC. The
good progress and satisfactory achievement of the Project objective has been based on strong
political championship and alignment of vision and strategy among the key ministries (Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Energy and Industry, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade), whose
keen interest and monthly reviews of implementation progress helped keep the project on track. As
part of the Financial Restructuring Plan, the Government agreed to defer interest payments until
2011.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
PEC implemented the Project almost according to the original schedule, until the catastrophic
accident in February 2007. It provided intensive monitoring and oversight of the Project by
dedicated operational teams. It established a Health, Safety and Environment Unit at project


                                                15
headquarters in Khorog to implement the Project‟s Environmental Management Plan. PEC‟s project
management team constantly monitored Project progress, addressed bottlenecks and provided
overall guidance to ensure that Project momentum was maintained. It initiated a metering program,
improved collections, established a customer service department, improved community relations in
the areas it serviced, and procured and installed the necessary equipment, both to rehabilitate the
plant and to protect it against future accidents. PEC also initiated social projects to help the
communities with other issues such as installation of a clean water pipeline and sponsorship of chess
classes in the schools. From 2008-2010 PEC financed US$3.78 million of Project costs from its
capital expenditure fund (compared to US$0.9 million planned when the Additional IDA Grant was
prepared). The only shortcomings were: delayed submission of the audit report for the year ending
December 31, 2009, and some delays in submission of revised IFRs – both the audit report and the
IFRs were eventually received;4 and the failure to procure all the equipment planned to be financed
by the additional IDA Grant before the Project Closing Date. Using its own funds and the Bank
procurement guidelines, PEC managed to complete all the activities envisaged under the IDA grant,
except for the remaining electrical equipment, resulting in cancellation of part of the grant. PEC has
informed IDA that it will finance the remaining electrical equipment, estimated at US$440,000 in
phases by 2012. PEC plans to announce the tender for electrical equipment shortly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the ratings of Satisfactory under (a) and (b), the overall Borrower performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
     Given the difficult environment in which the Project operated, the goals set for the Project
       and the limited resources available, high quality management is an important pre-requisite
       for success.
     Importance of good community relations, including personal visits to the communities and
       listening to the consumers‟ concerns is critical for a successful public service entity.
     A Public-Private Partnership can work, even in one of the poorest regions, by introducing
       improved governance, provided there is adequate commitment of Government, the private
       company, the Sponsor, and the IFIs.
     A high risk project, with significant development impact is worth doing, but it will require
       significantly more resources, commitment from all parties, and a good project design and a
       motivated implementing agency.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
PEC provided its Implementation Completion Report and all other information requested by IDA.
PEC proposed to rate the overall outcome as Highly Satisfactory and its own performance as
implementing agency as Highly Satisfactory. The ICR team maintained both ratings as Satisfactory,
given PEC‟s fragile financial situation, which could pose a moderate risk to the development


4
  According to PEC, one of the reasons for the delay in audit reports was the treatment of the deferred interest rate
and the recent changes in IFRs regarding treatment of the Concession assets.



                                                            16
outcome. IDA recognizes the need for softer onlending terms from GoT to PEC (current onlending
rate is 6 percent), and the need for continued subsidies for the poorest segments of the population, in
order to ensure PEC‟s continued financial viaibility.

The Ministry of Energy and Industry confirmed its agreement with the positive assessment of the
Project by letter dated June 24, 2011 (Annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers
AKFED provided comments in Annex 8.

No comments were received from IFC.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                                 17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Additional  Appraisal +
                           Appraisal                                               Percentage
                                         Financing    Additional
                           Estimate                                Actual (USD    of Appraisal +
     Components                           Estimate    Financing
                            (USD                                    millions)       Additional
                                           (USD        Estimate
                           millions)                                                Financing
                                          millions) (USD millions)
A. Completion of Pamir
I Hydro Plant and
Associated Regulating
                                  5.10                        5.10         5.10       100
Structures:
(i)Lake Yashilkul
Regulating Structure
A (ii) Tunnel, Penstock
& Surge Tank;
                                  7.50                        7.50         7.50       100
Installation of Units 3
and 4
B. Rehabilitation of:
Khorogh; Pamir I (units
                                  2.90                        2.90         2.90       100
1 and 2); Vanj and
Namangut hydro plants
C. Rehabilitation of:
35 kV Pamir-Khorog
Transmission Line (incl.
spare parts);                     3.10                        3.10         3.10       100
35 kV Substations (Biz,
Rosh, Jomi, Navo, Pam
Oro, DES and Spares)
D. Technical Assistance
                                  1.70
(i) Computerization,                                          1.70         1.70
      Training,
      Consulting                                              2.90         2.90
                                  2.90
      Services                                                                        100
(ii) Project Engineer &
      Implementation
                                  1.20
(iii) Operation &                                             1.20         1.20
      Management
Additional Financing to
                                                7.80                       4.95        63
Restore Pamir I
     Total Baseline Cost         24.40          7.80        32.20         29.35        91
Physical Contingencies
                                  0.00                       0.00                     0.00
Price Contingencies
                                  0.00                       0.00                     0.00
     Total Project Costs         24.40          7.80        32.20         29.35        91
Interest during
                                  2.00                       2.00          2.00       100
Construction
                                  0.00                       0.00                      .00
        Total Financing
                                 26.40          7.80        34.20         31.35        92
             Required




                                                  18
(b) Financing
                                                            AF      Appraisal    Actual
                                            Appraisal                                      Percentage
                                  Type of                Estimate     + AF     (Original +
                                            Estimate                                           of
       Source of Funds           Cofinancin               (USD      Estimate      AF.l
                                             (USD                                          Appraisal
                                      g                  millions)   (USD
                                            millions)                                       and AF
                                                                    millions)
 Borrower (PEC internal funds)                    0.20         0.90       1.10        0.20         18
Borrower (PEC CapEx,
                                                  4.40         4.40       4.40       3.78         86
including insurance)
 International Development                                                          11.17
                                                 10.00         2.50      12.50                    89
Association (IDA)
 International Finance
                                                  8.00                    8.00       8.00        100
Corporation (IFC)
 AKFED                                            8.20                    8.20       8.20        100

             Total                               26.40         7.80      34.20      31.35         92




                                                 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Completion of Existing Pamir I Hydro Plant and Associated Lake Yashilkul
Regulating Structure

Subcomponent A (i): Lake Yashilkul Regulating Structure. This subcomponent included civil
works carried out by local contractors for an access road to the diversion/spillway area; a small channel
at the spillway diversion area to temporarily lower the lake water level to an elevation of 3,717 m during
construction; a control house and accommodation for operation and maintenance of the gates, including
cement and steel. The regulating structure was constructed at the outlet of Lake Yashilkul, which had 2
natural outlets flowing over a very large rock-slide which formed the lake several centuries ago. The
main natural outlet passed over sand, gravel and stones of the old rockslide along the left bank, and the
secondary outlet passed over very large boulders near the right bank. A temporary diversion channel
and a spillway at the location of the secondary outlet were constructed, and a permanent outlet
regulating structure at the main natural outlet was also constructed. The objective was to regulate the
lake outflow to increase the water available to the Pamir I Hydro Power Plant in winter, during the low
flow period in the Gunt River and to retain the water in the summer.

Subcomponent A (ii): Rehabilitation of Pamir I Hydro Plant Infrastructure. This subcomponent
comprised the civil works for the repairs/rehabilitation of tunnels, penstock and surge tank and related
works and installation/repairs of Units 3 and 4 in the power plant, supply of cement and steel and supply
of equipment for the installation of Units 3 and 4.

Component B: Rehabilitation of Khorogh, Pamir I (Units 1 and 2), Vanj and Namangut Hydro
Plants.

      Rehabilitation works of Pamir I, Units 1 and 2 included general overhaul, new turbine governors,
       upgrading of control and protection system;
      Khorog, included complete replacement of the turbine governing systems on all units,
       upgrading/replacement of broken instrumentation and monitoring devices, supply of 5 new
       turbine runners, redesign and replacement of turbine bearings and shafts, general through
       overhaul of turbines, generators and intake valves, upgrading/replacement of control and
       monitoring instrumentation, generating unit switchgear;
      Re-Metering Program in Khorog provided over 6,000 sets of meters, which dramatically reduced
       losses in Khorog from as high as 60% to about 14%.
      Vanj, included complete replacement of the control and protection system, complete replacement
       of the turbine governing system, supply of 2 new turbine runners, upgrading/replacement of
       broken instrumentation and monitoring devices, general thorough overhaul of turbines and
       generators, generating unit switchgear; and
       Namangut, included complete replacement of the turbine governing systems on both units,
       upgrading/replacement of broken instrumentation and monitoring devices, supply of 2 new
       turbine runners, redesign and replacement of the turbine bearings and shafts, general thorough
       overhaul of turbines, generators and intake valves, and generating unit switchgear.




                                                     20
Component C: Rehabilitation of 35 kV Pamir-Khorog-Andarbak Transmission Line and 35 kV
substations.

Supply of equipment and spare parts for:
    Erection of a new 35 kV line between the Pamir I power station and the substation in Khorog;
    Rehabilitation of the 35 kV line between Khorog and Rushan;
    General rehabilitation of critical sections of other 35 kV and 10 kV lines within the main grid
       area.

Component D: Technical Assistance.
Subcomponent D (i): Computerization, office equipment training. This component, financed by
the co-financiers, included supply/installation of computerized systems, office equipment and training
expenses.

Subcomponent D (ii): Consulting Services. This component was financed by PEC and IFC and
covered the consulting services for project engineering, including procurement services as well as for
the operation and management of the utility for a period of four years each to support project
implementation and operations respectively.

SECO (Switzerland) financed a tariff protection program for vulnerable consumers, which protected the
consumers against the necessary tariff increases.

Additional Financing Components:

In order to restore Pamir I to its design capacity following the flooding accident, the following items
were procured under the Additional Financing:

      New excitation systems for all 4 units;
      Small unit panel for all 4 units;
      Spare relay, sensor and indicator for excitation, protection and control for Units 1, 2, & 4;
      Compressor 140 liter per minutes/ 250-330 bar (complete set);
      Drainage pumps;
      Floating pumps with motor boat;
      Mobile loader for removing sediments;
      Mechanical spare parts for units, 1, 3, and 4, including turbine runner;
      Plant control and dispatcher room upgrade, including CCTV cameras and circuits;
      HF radio communication for Yashilkul and HPP1, VHF radio communication for HPP1, CR, SB,
       PH
      Installation of protection shelter on the tunnel intake; (this procurement was cancelled as the
       current design was not effective and further study was required)
      Repair old turbine runner and wicket gate;
      Consultant services to develop specifications for system protection and control.




                                                   21
The only items that could not be procured before the Closing Date were electrical spare parts for Units
1,3, 4, and the installation of a protection shelter on the tunnel intake (which was cancelled because the
current design was not effective). It was agreed that the electrical equipment (estimated at US$440,000)
would be procured using PEC‟s CapEx funds, with tender documents to be issued in mid-2011, delivery
of equipment planned for late 2011/early 2012, and installation during 2012.

The successful implementation of the components significantly improved the reliability and quantity of
supply of electricity in the Gorno Badakshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO) region. Electricity sales
increased from 135,000 MWh/year in 2002 to 163,215 MWh/year in 2010, about 82 percent of the end
project target due to lower than anticipated demand. Before the Project, most consumers received only 3
hours/day of electricity in winter; in 2010 over 70 percent of consumers received uninterrupted power
supply, with the remaining consumers receiving from 8-16 hours/day of electricity in winter. Minimum
service standards to consumers (maximum duration of outages, voltage fluctuations, frequency)
improved significantly and reached or exceeded the end of project targets. Collection rates improved
from 40% in 2002 to almost 100% in 2010. Technical and commercial losses were reduced from 39%
in 2006 to 19.9% in 2010. PEC‟s management improved over the course of the project, developing
better community relations, establishing a customer service unit, improving billing and initiating an
individual metering program.




                                                     22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Detailed economic and financial analysis of the project was carried out at the appraisal stage to
estimate the economic and financial efficiency and impact of the project. The economic costs and
benefits of the project were calculated exclusive of taxes and subsidies and the assessment of the
financial costs and benefits was done inclusive of taxes. The projection of financial performance of
Pamir Energy Company was done at appraisal stage for 2002-2012.

Key assumptions: The economic and financial analysis of the project relies on the following key
assumptions:

Power plant availability: The generation capacity availability estimates used for completion stage
economic and financial appraisal of the project are in line with the appraisal stage assumptions. The
forecast of the gross power generation used in the economic and financial analysis assumes 95%
availability of generation capacity in 2011-2023. Specifically, the hydropower plants rehabilitated
under the project have an average availability of around 97%. However, there are a number of
smaller hydropower plants that were not included in the project and have lower availability.

Electricity demand: Electricity demand is estimated to be at 147,173 MWh. This figure is
calculated based on actual electricity consumption data from 2010 and is adjusted to reflect the
average of 2-hour daily outages in winter of 2010. The above data is used as the baseline to calculate
the forecast electricity demand in 2011 – 2023. The average annual growth rate of electricity demand
is assumed to be 4%.5

Transmission/distribution losses: The technical losses were assumed to reduce to 10% of net
supply.

Minimum cash balance: 30 days of operating costs on a cash basis

Debt service projections: The projections for debt service requirements take into account the
agreed terms and conditions of the Financial Restructuring Plan agreed between the project
financiers, the Government and the company.

   Table 1: Key assumption of economic and financial appraisal

       Expected average annual TSom/US$ exchange rate                           4.5
       in 2011-2023
       Incremental O&M                                                         1.5%
       Annual system deterioration w/o project                                 10%
       Average estimated annual growth rate of electricity                      4%
       sales in 2011-2023




   5
     Income elasticity of electricity demand is assumed at 0.8. Real GDP is taken as the proxy for income and is
   assumed to grow at an average annual rate of 5%. Tariffs are assumed unchanged.



                                                         23
       Estimated marginal willingness-to-pay for electricity     USc 3.25/kWh6

       Assessment period                                         20 years
       VAT rate                                                  20%
       Discount rate                                             10%

Economic analysis: Cost-benefit analysis was conducted to assess the economic impact of the
project. The cost-benefit analysis was conducted by comparing “with project? and “without project?
incremental costs and benefits. Assumptions were made as to how long the power system would
operate if no investments were made. The appraisal stage economic analysis was conducted for three
scenarios, assuming that the system would deteriorate at an annual rate of 5%, 10% and 20%. The
10% deterioration (i.e. the system will continue to function on a declining basis for another 10 years)
was selected as the base-case scenario.

At completion, the economic and financial analysis was updated to incorporate the actual level of
investments, power generation and sales, tariffs, losses and collections for the period of project
implementation and revisions in forecasts. The economic analysis confirmed the positive impact of
the project with the substantial increase in the supply of electricity to consumers.

The main economic costs are the capital investments and the incremental operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs.

The main economic benefit of the project was the incremental electricity supplied to consumers as a
result of power system investments. Specifically, improvements to the power system eliminated the
black-outs that the customers were experiencing. This was driven by: (a) improved availability of
hydropower plants, (b) reduced technical and commercial losses in the distribution and transmission
networks and (c) reduced number of outages. The economic benefit of incremental electricity supply
was valued at customers‟ estimated marginal willingness to pay (WTP) for electricity.

Under the base-case scenario for system deterioration, the appraisal stage economic analysis yielded
an NPV of US$ 17.6 million and an EIRR of 19%. The completion stage economic analysis of the
project yielded an NPV of US$ 3.9 million and an EIRR of 12.2% (see Table 1). Reduction of
economic efficiency of the project is primarily due to the 19% investment cost over-run as a result of
the catastrophic accident in 2007 and 2003-2010 electricity sales below the levels projected at
appraisal, partly as a result of the impact of the global economic recession. Specifically, the total
actual project costs were around US$ 31.4 million, compared to the originally planned US$ 26.4.
Additionally, the actual electricity sales in 2003-2010 were 35-40% lower than projected at appraisal.

Financial analysis: Cost-benefit analysis was conducted to assess the financial impact of the project.
The main financial benefit of the project is the incremental financial revenue that accrues to Pamir
Energy Company due to incremental supply of electricity and higher tariffs. The financial benefits
from incremental supply of electricity were estimated at the weighted average end-user tariffs. The


   6
     In the absence of unmet demand, the current tariff might be considered as an economically justified proxy for
   the customers‟ willingness to pay for electricity.



                                                         24
main financial costs of this sub-component are the capital investment costs and incremental O&M
costs

The appraisal stage project company level financial analysis estimated the FIRR at 9.8%. The
completion stage financial viability analysis of investments from the perspective of Pamir Energy
Company was conducted for the base case scenario for system deterioration and yielded an NPV of
US$ (2.3) million and an FIRR of 8.9% (see Table 2). The reason for estimated post-completion
financial un-viability of investments are the higher actual investment costs and downward revision
of electricity demand projections given that GBAO region currently has 24-hour/day power supply.

Financial performance of Pamir Energy Company: Overall, the company‟s financial
performance was poor from 2006-2008 with improvement in 2009 due to: (a) 80% increase of
average electricity tariff in 2006-2009; (b) increased power sales driven by improvements of key
generation, transmission and distribution assets; (c) higher collection rates for electricity; (d) the
implementation of the company‟s Financial Restructuring Plan agreed in June 2008; and (e) the
prospects of continued electricity exports to Afghanistan. Export share is currently about 0.55%;
however, this is a very dynamic market, and PEC expects that the volume of electricity export will
increase significantly over the medium-term. The company‟s operating income and cash flow
became positive in 2009. The company‟s ability to meet its short-term and long-term financial
obligations improved. Specifically, in 2009, the company‟s highly liquid assets at hand were
sufficient to pay for 14% of short-term liabilities, whereas in 2006, the company could pay only 5%.
In 2009, the company‟s cash at hand was sufficient to pay 6% of interest due and principal
repayments on outstanding debt. Nonetheless, softer onlending terms and continued subsidy
payments would enable PEC to continue to invest in and maintain the GBAO power system.

In 2008, the Government of Tajikistan, IDA, IFC and AKFED agreed on the terms of Financial
Restructuring of the company. According to the restructuring plan, the accrued interest expenses on
the IDA credit were deferred till 2011 and the company committed to pay those in a 15-year period.
The IFC and the company agreed to convert the IFC loan into a quasi-equity classified as non-
interest bearing and unsecured IFC loan. Additionally, all of the interest due and unpaid was
cancelled. Moreover, the subordinated debt owed to AKFED was converted into a non-interest
bearing and unsecured loan with no fixed redemption date. Projections of the company‟s financial
performance for 2010-2015 are presented in the Tables 3, 4 and 5.




                                                 25
Table 1: Project economic appraisal at completion
                                                                                      Actual                                                             Forecast
                                           2003        2004        2005        2006            2007       2008        2009        2010        2015         2018        2023
COSTS
Economic costs of investments       US$   5,000,000   6,015,307   7,319,182   3,442,636         64,013   1,333,731   1,548,928   1,545,880
Incremental O&M costs               US$     75,000     165,230     275,017     326,657         327,617    347,623     370,857     394,045     396,454     396,454     396,454

Total economic costs                US$   5,075,000   6,180,536   7,594,199   3,769,293        391,630   1,681,354   1,919,785   1,939,925    396,454     396,454     396,454


BENEFITS
Annual energy supply w/o project    MWh    107,508      96,757      86,006      75,255          64,505     53,754      43,003      32,252            0            0           0
Annual energy supply w/ project     MWh    112,914      95,606     111,490     111,561         114,413    140,671     144,920     144,113     172,172     193,670     235,629
Estimated aggregated annual
demand                              MWh    147,173     147,173     147,173     147,173         147,173    147,173     147,173     147,173     172,172     193,670     235,629

Estimated unmet annual demand w/o
project                             MWh     39,665      50,416      61,167      71,918          82,668     93,419     104,170     114,921     172,172     193,670     235,629

Estimated unmet demand w/ project   MWh     34,259      51,567      35,683      35,612          32,760      6,502       2,253       3,060            0            0           0
Reduction in unmet demand                    5,406       -1,151     25,484      36,306          49,908     86,917     101,917     111,861     172,172     193,670     235,629

Economic value of reduction in                                                                                                                                        7,657,93
unmet demand                        US$     175,705     -37,405     828,225   1,179,932    1,622,022     2,824,807   3,312,300   3,635,472   5,595,577   6,294,263           3
                                                  -           -           -           -                                                                               7,261,48
Net economic benefits               US$   4,899,295   6,217,941   6,765,974   2,589,360    1,230,393     1,143,454   1,392,515   1,695,547   5,199,123   5,897,809           0
NPV                                 US$   3,909,898
EIRR                                        12.2%




                                                                                   26
Table 2: Project financial appraisal at completion
                                                                                                       Actual                                                           Forecast
                                             2003        2004        2005        2006        2007           2008         2009        2010        2015        2018         2023
COSTS
Financial costs of investments       US$   6,000,000   7,218,368   8,783,018   4,131,163      76,815      1,600,477     1,858,714   1,855,056
Incremental O&M costs                US$     90,000     198,276     330,021     391,988      393,140       417,148       445,028     472,854     475,744     475,744     475,744
Total financial costs                US$   6,090,000   7,416,644   9,113,039   4,523,151     469,955      2,017,625     2,303,742   2,327,910    475,744     475,744     475,744


BENEFITS
Annual energy sales w/o project      MWh    107,508      96,757      86,006      75,255       64,505        53,754        43,003      32,252            0           0            0
Annual energy sales w/ project       MWh    112,914      95,606     111,490     111,561      114,413       140,671       144,920     144,113     172,172     193,670     235,629
Estimated aggregated annual
demand                               MWh    147,173     147,173     147,173     147,173      147,173       147,173       147,173     147,173     172,172     193,670     235,629

Estimated unmet annual demand w/o
project                              MWh     39,665      50,416      61,167      71,918       82,668        93,419       104,170     114,921     172,172     193,670     235,629
Estimated unmet demand w/ project    MWh     34,259      51,567      35,683      35,612       32,760            6,502      2,253       3,060            0           0            0
Reduction in unmet demand                     5,406       -1,151     25,484      36,306       49,908        86,917       101,917     111,861     172,172     193,670     235,629
Financial value of increased sales   US$      45,954     -11,668     333,150     591,999     898,850      2,447,935     2,945,399   3,635,472   5,595,577   6,294,263   7,657,933
                                                   -           -           -           -
Net financial benefits               US$   6,044,046   7,428,312   8,779,889   3,931,152     428,894       430,310       641,657    1,307,562   5,119,832   5,818,518   7,182,189
                                                   -
NPV                                  US$   2,303,532
FIRR                                          8.9%




                                                                                        27
Table 3: PEC balance sheet for 2006-2015
                                                        Actual                                                        Forecast
 ‘000 TSJ                             2006       2007            2008            2009        2010       2011       2012       2013       2014       2015

 ASSETS
 Non-current assets                    57,252     55,749          67,943          66,924     67,593     68,269     68,952     69,641     70,338     71,041

 Current assets                         4,211      7,799          10,694          14,235     17,623     21,412     24,951     26,782     28,771     30,804
 Cash and cash equivalents              2,757      5,519           5,965           6,389      9,165     12,234     14,793     15,023     16,315     17,415
 Trade accounts receivables, net          872        658           1,477           3,035      3,200      3,400      3,600      3,800      3,900      4,100
 Other current assets                     232        759           1,076           3,078      3,458      3,800      4,500      5,800      6,200      6,800
 Inventory                                350        863           2,176           1,733      1,800      1,978      2,058      2,159      2,356      2,489

 Total assets                         61,463     63,548          78,637          81,159     85,216     89,682     93,903     96,424     99,108     101,845

 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 Non-current liabilities               55,468     50,986          38,351          51,003     51,456     53,514     55,655     57,881     60,196     62,604
 Long-term financing                   55,468     50,986          38,351          51,003     51,456     53,514     55,655     57,881     60,196     62,604

 Current liabilities                    6,491     20,120          13,308          12,115     15,370     17,378     19,018     18,827     18,666     18,418
 Current portion of long-term loans     4,264     13,639          10,824          10,187     11,075     11,623     12,088     12,571     13,074     13,597
 Accounts payable                       1,836      2,400           2,039           1,788      2,009      2,256      2,358      2,245      2,159      2,000
 Other current liabilities                391      4,081             445             140      2,286      3,499      4,572      4,011      3,433      2,821

 Equity                                  (496)    (7,558)          26,978          18,041     18,391     18,790     19,231     19,715     20,245     20,823
 Share capital                          35,919     35,919          35,919          35,919     35,919     35,919     35,919     35,919     35,919     35,919
 Additional paid-in capital                163        163             163             163        163        163        163        163        163        163
 Retained earnings                    (36,578)   (43,640)        (40,344)        (49,281)   (48,931)   (48,532)   (48,091)   (47,607)   (47,077)   (46,499)
 Quasi capital                               -          -          31,240          31,240     31,240     31,240     31,240     31,240     31,240     31,240

 Total equity and liabilities         61,463     63,548          78,637          81,159     85,216     89,682     93,903     96,424     99,108     101,845




                                                                            28
Table 4: PEC Income statement for 2006-2015
                                                             Actual                                                       Forecast
‘000 TJS                                  2006        2007            2008            2009       2010       2011       2012        2013       2014       2015

Sales forecast (MWh)                                                                             144,113    147,173    153,060    159,182     165,550    172,172
Tariff forecast (TJS/kWh)                                                                           0.142      0.146      0.146      0.146       0.146      0.146
Revenue                                      6,301      7,884          12,676          18,254      20,509     21,524     22,385     23,280      24,212     25,180
Cost of sales                              (5,440)    (6,007)         (9,499)         (9,304)    (10,453)   (10,971)   (11,410)   (11,866)    (12,341)   (12,834)
Gross profit                                   861      1,877           3,177           8,950      10,055     10,553     10,975     11,414      11,871     12,346
Selling expenses                           (1,635)    (1,110)           (732)         (2,018)     (2,256)    (2,368)    (2,462)    (2,561)     (2,663)    (2,770)
General and admin expenses                 (5,302)    (4,094)         (5,861)         (6,859)     (6,973)    (7,318)    (7,611)    (7,915)     (8,232)    (8,561)
Impairment loss on PPE                    (11,151)    (2,083)               -               -           -          -          -          -           -          -
Impairment loss on accounts receivables
and other current assets                    (287)       (184)                -               -          -
Carbon credit income                            -       1,258                -               -          -          -          -           -          -          -
Insurance compensation for impairment
loss                                              -     2,083              -               -           -          -          -          -           -          -
Other income                                     23        24            696             154         173        182        189        196         204        212
Operating income                          (17,491)    (2,229)         (2,720)             227      1,000      1,049      1,091      1,135       1,180      1,227
Foreign exchange gain/(loss)               (3,569)      (571)             160         (8,546)          -          -          -                      -          -
Gain from restructured debt                      -          -           3,135               -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Financing costs                            (4,077)    (4,262)           (393)           (618)      (650)      (650)      (650)      (650)       (650)      (650)
Profit before tax                         (25,137)    (7,062)            182          (8,937)        350        399        441        485         530        577
Net profit for the year                   (25,137)    (7,062)            182          (8,937)        350        399        441        485         530        577




                                                                                 29
Table 5: PEC cash flow statement for 2006-2015
                                                             Actual                                                   Forecast
            ‘000 TJS                       2006       2007            2008           2009      2010      2011      2012        2013      2014      2015
 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 Net profit                                (25,137)   (7,062)            182         (8,937)      350       399       441         485       530       577
 Operating profit before changes in
 working capital and provisions             (2,643)     (848)           2,925          6,257    5,977      6,083    6,182       6,283     6,386     6,492
 Working capital changes
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other
 receivables                                 (296)        214           (819)        (1,558)    (165)      (200)     (200)      (200)     (100)     (200)
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories            140      (513)         (1,313)            443     (67)      (178)      (80)      (101)     (197)     (133)
 (Increase)/decrease in other current
 assets                                          72     (527)         (1,516)        (2,002)    (380)      (342)     (700)     (1,300)    (400)     (600)
 Increase/(decrease) in accounts payable    (1,655)       564           (361)          (251)      221        247       102       (113)     (86)     (159)
 Interest /commitment fee paid              (2,655)     (289)           (292)          (569)    (650)      (650)     (650)       (650)    (650)     (650)
 Net cash flow from operating
 activities                                 (7,037)     (157)         (3,945)          1,683    4,996      4,985    4,677       3,940     4,999     4,885

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 Purchase of PPE                            (1,349)   (4,514)               -              -   (2,500)   (2,200)   (1,100)      (800)     (800)     (800)
 Prepayment for non-current assets                -         -         (2,352)        (1,546)
 Disposal of PPE                                 80         -               -              -         -         -         -           -         -         -
 Capital expenditure for operating right          -         -         (2,046)        (3,007)     (500)     (500)     (500)       (500)     (500)     (500)
 Purchase of intangible assets                 (99)      (32)               -              -      (20)      (16)      (18)        (10)       (8)      (85)
 Cash flow from investing activities        (1,368)   (4,546)         (4,398)        (4,553)   (3,020)   (2,716)   (1,618)     (1,310)   (1,308)   (1,385)

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 Loan from IDA through Government             1765        264             344          1,713      800       800          -           -         -         -
 Advance received from insurance                 -      7,173           8,463              -        -         -          -           -         -         -
 Repayments of loans                                                                                0         0      (500)     (2,400)   (2,400)   (2,400)
 Cash flow from financing activities         3,293      7,437           8,807          1,713      800       800      (500)     (2,400)   (2,400)   (2,400)

 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and
 cash equivalents                           (5,112)     2,734            464         (1,157)    2,776      3,069    2,559         230     1,291     1,100




                                                                                30
                                                           Actual                                                     Forecast
               ‘000 TJS                   2006      2007            2008           2009      2010       2011       2012        2013     2014       2015
Exchange rate effects                         208          28          (18)          1,581          -          -        -           -          -          -
Cash and cash equivalents at the
beginning of the year                       7,661     2,757           5,519          5,965    6,389       9,165    12,234      14,793   15,023     16,315
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of
the year                                    2,757     5,519           5,965          6,389    9,165      12,234    14,793      15,023   16,315     17,415




                                                                              31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                             Title              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Raghuveer Sharma             TTL, Lead Financial Analyst       ECSSD
Anil Markandya               Principal Economist
Rene Mendonca                Senior Power Engineer
Nikolay Nikolov              Operations Officer                ECSSD
Benedicta Oliveros-Miranda   Procurement                       ECSPS
Migara Jayawardena           Sr. Infrastructure Specialist     EASIN
Ahmed Jehani                 Lead Counsel                      LEGEN
Junko Funahashi              Sr. Counsel                       LEGEN
Hannah Koilpillai            Sr. Finance Officer               CTRFC
Surekha Jaddoo               Operations Analyst                ECSSD
Yukari Tsuchiya              Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Denis Clarke                 Chief Investment Officer           IFC
Paul Nickson                 Principal Power Engineer           IFC
Yukiyo Ikeda                 Investment Officer                 IFC
Richard English              Senior Environmental Specialist    IFC
Patricia Jungreis Sulser     Principal Counsel                  IFC
Yeages Cowan                 Counsel                            IFC
Olim Khomidov                Investment Officer                 IFC
Teresa De Leon               Team Assistant                     IFC
Lourdes Dela Cruz            Team Assistant                     IFC
Supervision/ICR
Raghuveer Sharma             Lead Financial Specialist         SASDE TTL
Imtiaz Hizkil                Sr. Power Engineer                ECSS2 TTL
 Sodyk Khaitov               Consultant                        ECSS2
 Nikolay Petrov Nikolov      Sr. Energy Specialist             AFTEG
Mirlan Aldayarov             Energy Specialist                 ECSS2
 Christopher L. Rytel        Consultant                        SASDE
 Jann Masterson              Operations Officer                ECSS2
Wolfort Pohl                 Sr. Environmental Specialist      ECSS3
Shod Nazarov                 Financial Management Analyst      ECS03
Yuling Zhou                  Sr. Procurement Specialist        ECS02
Benedicta T. Oliveros        Procurement Analyst               ECS02
                             Sr. Financial Management
John Otieno Ogallo                                             ECS03
                             Specialist
Hannah M. Koilpillai         Sr. Finance Officer               CTRFC
Takhmina Mukhamedova         Operations Analyst                ECSS6
Yukari Tsuchiya              Temporary                         ECSS2




                                              32
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                      42                       161.37
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 7.11 (AF)
  FY08                                                                66.67 (AF)
                          Total:            42                       235.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                      47                       189.54
  FY04                                      36                       129.63
  FY05                                      27                       148.05
  FY06                                      14                       105.82
  FY07                                      33                       202.55
  FY08                                      31                       191.60
  FY09                                                               115.56
 FY10                                                                138.91
 FY11                                                                 92.08
                          Total:         188                        1313.74




                                       33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                     35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


English translation of Letter from Ministry of Energy and Industry
                                                                                                     Unofficial Translation

                                         REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

     MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND IN DUSTRY REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                              Ru da ki, 2 2 Tel : (8 1 0 9 9 2 - 3 7 ) 2 2 1 - 6 9 - 9 7 /2 2 1 - 8 8 - 8 9
Fax: (810992 - 3 7 ) 2 2 1 - 8 2 - 8 1                                              E -mail: mincnergoprom@mail.ti


    To:       World Bank Country Office
              Dushanbe
              Republic of Tajikistan

    From: Mr. A. Sulaimonov
          Deputy Minister
          Ministry of Energy and Industry
          Dushanbe
          Republic of Tajikistan

    Ref. No. 16/1676                                                                                          June 24, 2011

             The Ministry of Energy and Industry of the Republic of Tajikistan presents its
    compliments to the World Bank Country Office in Tajikistan and would like to express
    its gratitude for the continued and timely support rendered by the Bank to ensure further
    development of the country‟s energy sector.

            The Pamir Private Energy Project (Pamir Energy Company), designed by the IFC,
    AKFED, with the assistance of the IDA and the Government of Switzerland through
    SECO, is considered to be one of the unique energy projects in the Republic of Tajikistan,
    which is implemented in cooperation with the private sector and is aimed at restructuring
    of the sector and further improvement of services provided to the population. It is good
    that over the last few years the Pamir Energy Company has made a significant progress in
    improving the power supply for the population of Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous
    Oblast (GBAO).

            The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan attaches great importance to energy
    sector development in mountainous regions of the country. The World Bank‟s financial
    assistance in the amount of US$10 million allocated for the implementation of the first
    public-private partnership project - the Pamir Energy Company and the subsequent
    US$2,5 million appropriated right after the destructive collapse and emergency situation
    at Pamir-1 hydropower plant was a vitally important step taken by the Bank to help the
    population of GBAO to successfully go through many hardships of that difficult period.



                                                                36
       The Ministry of Energy and Industry of the Republic of Tajikistan acting in the
capacity of the authorized representative of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
in the Concession Agreement between the Republic of Tajikistan and Pamir Energy
Company, which was signed by the parties on May 24, 2002, conducts a regular and
systematic monitoring of the progress on the fulfillment of commitments under this
agreement.

        Official commissions comprising representatives of various republican ministries
and committees visited the power facilities of the Company more than once in order to
get a clear picture of the situation and check on the implementation status of the
following tasks: fulfillment of the Environmental Management Plan, maximum normal
(average) tariff maintenance, maintaining minimum standard of services rendered to
individual consumers, energy loss reduction in transmission and distribution networks,
improving reliability and sustainability of the entire system. It is gratifying to know that
the aforementioned commissions have always noted positive changes in the operating
activities of Pamir Energy.

         It is worth mentioning that the Company has fully met its investment
commitments with respect to completion of Pamir-1 HPP and other important energy
facilities. The construction of Pamir-1 HPP was completed in 2005 as it was planned
earlier, and the ceremony of launching the project was attended by the President of the
Republic of Tajikistan Mr. Emomali Rakhmon personally.

        As a result of the Company‟s activity the overall power generation increased by
30%. Owing to the financial assistance provided by the World Bank, the Company
managed to install new electronic counters for all electricity consumers in Khorog city,
which consumes more than a half of the energy volume generated in GBAO. Moreover,
overall energy losses, which previously amounted to 60%, were substantially reduced in
the networks thereby helping significantly improve the electricity supply of Khorog and
other mountainous regions connected to the GBAO power grid.

       Though today the project is successfully operating, however the implementation
process went with difficulties. The Pamir-1 HPP failure in February 2007 was one of the
serious obstacles faced by the project.

       The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, the Ministry of Energy and
Industry of the Republic of Tajikistan in cooperation with other project participants,
including the World Bank managed to raise funds required for speedy rehabilitation of
the main station, which helped ensure stable electricity supply (in the normal mode) in
winter season.

       Since the initial estimates were rather optimistic, i.e. the volume of sales was
expected to be much higher whereas the losses and expenditures were supposed to be
smaller, then during the fifth year of the Company‟s operation Pamir Energy has already
been totally enmeshed by financial difficulties. In this regard, in 2008 the Government of
the Republic of Tajikistan, World Bank, IFC and AKFED implemented financial



                                            37
restructuring of the Company. Due to this restructuring the Government of the Republic
of Tajikistan agreed to grant a respite for the interest rate on the IDA sub-credit from 6%
to 1,25% interest per annum till the end of 2011. At the same time the World Bank
allocated additional financing in the amount of US$2,5 million to be spent for
rehabilitation of Pamir-1 HPP after its failure in 2007.

       Thanks to efficient management of World Bank-funded projects linked with
execution of rehabilitation works Pamir Energy succeeded to ensure timely completion of
works and significant saving of allocated resources.

         It is evident that the Company‟s experience is very successful and noteworthy;
therefore the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan is planning to use this experience
extensively to facilitate further development of the power-supply system of the country.
         Despite some improvements in the operational activity of the Company, its
financial indicators leave much to be desired. Today the Pamir Energy‟s capability to
fulfill its sub-credit commitments before the IDA is a matter of deep concern. In this
connection the Government Commission has visited the Pamir Energy Company in the
beginning of June 2011 in order to check on the performance of the Company. The
parties are planning to reconsider the interest rate on the IDA sub-credit during the third
quarter of 2011.

       The Ministry of Energy and Industry of the Republic of Tajikistan avails itself of
this opportunity to express its thankfulness to the World Bank and really hopes that the
Bank will continue supporting this and similar initiatives of the Republic of Tajikistan
implemented in energy sector of the country.

                                      With best regards,

                                      A. Suleymanov
                                 Deputy Minister of Industry
                                    Ministry of Energy
                                   Republic of Tajikistan




                                            38
                                         Pamir Energy ICR

 1. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
(a) Project Preparation
Project started in December 2002 and completed in December 2010
(b) Implementation Stage:
Project consisted of two stage: 2002-2008 ($10 million initial funding) and 2009-2010 ($2.5 million
additional funding). Procurement plans for both stages were implemented.

2. Monitoring and Evaluation
The monitoring and evaluation process of the project was efficient and gave a valuable experience
and knowledge to PEC personnel working with the project.
PEC was constantly updating WB on the procurement and implementation process and the reports
were evaluated by WB specialists.
Several times, WB missions were arranged to PEC for the monitoring and evaluation of the progress
of the project. WB gave good recommendations which were implemented or used to improve the
efficiency of the project.
WB was informed on each procurement process and implementation stage, and WB evaluated and
responded on them.
The results from the monitoring and evaluation is that
     PEC delivers uninterrupted power supply in its main grid
     manages the water flow from Lake Yashilkul
     resolved the issues with sediments and frazil ice
     improved the reliability of the electro-mechanical parts of the plant
     improved the security of the plant (CCTV cameras)
     and made possible to have surplus of energy even in peak hours of winter season.
    
3. (a) Transition arrangements for the project's future operation.
Pamir I power plant rehabilitation completed successfully. Pamir I works on its full capacity and
covers the demand of the area. Moreover, there are surplus of energy, which means that PEC can put
one or two units for capital repair at the same time, without affecting the reliable energy supply.
Today, Pamir I is a sustainable station. PEC carries out several projects annually at Pamir I to
improve the safety and reliability of the plant further. Budgets necessary for the plant are allocated in
full manner annually. Staff is trained and is going through intensive capacity building programs
every year.
The performance indicators of the projects similar to the project carried out by PEC through IDA
funding could be several:
    - Operational impact (efficiency, maintenance periods, etc)
    - Financial impact (revenue, expenses, etc)
    - Economic impact (economic activities, workshops, communication and technologies,
        employment, etc)
    - Social impact (community pressure, gender equality, in-house emission, education, health,
        etc)
    - Environmental impact (clean energy, deforestation, etc).



                                                 39
The indicators should be analyzed through the years, based on household level, regional level, and
other levels such as export, employment and etc.
II. Outcomes
(a) Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The objectives of the project were to improve the energy supply in GBAO region, suffering from the
deterioration of the whole network and small generating capacities. That covered the rehabilitation
of the Pamir I power plant (the biggest plant of Pamir Energy), increase of its capacity, resolve the
issue with water flow management, remove the issue with frazil ice and sediments, and deliver more
energy to the end consumers.

The objectives of the project were reached. Pamir I rehabilitation completed in 2010, with the
commission of the last unit of the plant in January 2011. Today, Pamir I can reach the full capacity
and Pamir Energy has up to 4MW of surplus of energy in peak hours in winter. In remaining 17-18
hours of winter days, PEC has surplus up to 10MW.

A dam was built at Yashilkul Lake which improved the energy supply from Pamir I and Khorog
power plants (cascades of plants). In 2010, anti-filtration measures were taken at Yashilkul dam
which allowed economizing more than 20 million m3 of water at the Lake. That means that in case
the winter would last more than usual, PEC would have enough water to deliver reliable the energy
to its consumers.

Dredging pump was procured in 2010, which solved the issue with sediments at Pamir I
sedimentation basin. PEC does not have to stop the plant once in 2 years for the whole month to
clean the sediments. The machine can clean it anytime, without suspension of the plant.
Two ice blocking systems were built which solved the issue with frazil ice getting into the basin and
further to turbine. This issue brought many problems to PEC, including the lower water flow from
the basin and damage to the turbines and bearings.

(b) Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Reliable energy supply resulted in the change in the whole economic life of the region. Previously,
shops used to work only in summer time, and the small productions worked in summer as well, as no
energy was available. Today, all shops work all year rounds, people are more busy with the
commercial business all the year. Rationing would sound strange for the consumers in the main grid,
as they are used to have energy all year round, and they appreciate the efforts of Pamir Energy and
all partners.

The impact on environment was significant. In the end of 1990s, 70% of the forests and trees were
cut in GBAO. Due to the lack of energy in the region, people were using woods for heating and
cooking.

Today, with better energy provision to all regions (main grid receives uninterrupted supply all year
round), the forests are recovering.

The clean energy provided by Pamir Energy replaced the pollution resulted from burning woods and
coals (only few people afforded it and it was scarce).




                                               40
(c) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
According to the studies in 2007, hydro energy is the cheapest option for cooking and heating in
GBAO, compared to wood, coal, diesel and other sources. Thus, the energy had a positive impact on
the poverty reduction. People pay less for clean energy and can spend the difference on other house
holding needs.

Women spent more time with cooking and heating. Today, using electricity devices, they are able to
devote more time for family, for education of the children, for other works at house, or work for
public or commercial sector.

The in-house emission issue was resolved completely. People don‟t use diesel lamps for lighting, or
wood for heating. Risks of sicknesses from the in-house emission, especially for children/babies,
was either removed completely, or minimized significantly.

(d) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development):

The energy provision made possible for Government and donors to provide schools with computers
and other technologies. Today, every school in GBAO had at least one computer and more children
and youth are comfortable using the technologies, including printers and scanners.

Health facilities and hospitals can fulfill their duties, not depending on rationing of electricity as they
used to be in the 1990s. Impact is significant. Some hospitals in regions received new medical
technology from donors and use them every day for medical check of the patients.

(e) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):
Back in 2006, if you would tell people that PEC will export energy to Afghanistan in 2008, they
would not understand you, simply because the rationing was in GBAO itself. However, the project
allowed to have energy all year round, and it is already the third year that PEC is providing energy to
Afghanistan all year round, now for more than 1000 households.

The project financed by WB is one of the main components that today PEC is becoming a
benchmarking company for Central Asia and other countries. The experience of PEC now is
appreciated in other countries, and PEC is now providing some consulting services to Afghanistan,
Uganda, and Kyrgyzstan.

       III. Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome
Several factors have affected the satisfactory implementation and outcomes in the program
supported by WB.
                             Rating at
         Risks                                                            Comment
                             that point
Technical Expertise (e.g.   Low           The implementation of the project directly related to the experience of the
Experience of the                         engineers and according measures were taken to improve that (e.g.
engineers and key                         trainings outside and inside Tajikistan, consultants reports‟ analysis)
personnel)




                                                       41
                        Rating at
          Risks                                                      Comment
                        that point
Implementation risk    Low           Pamir Energy went through different types of management and systems
                                     restructured (rehabilitation, new high quality leadership, relation with
                                     government, etc).
Sustainability of      Moderate      AKFED has supported the drafting of a comprehensive PEC business plan
investments                          for 2010 - 2014. PEC will not need additional investments after 2014 to
                                     be sustainable.
Reputational Risk      Low           The project focuses not only on the improvement of electricity supply in
                                     the Pamir region but also on the improvement of the energy supply in
                                     neighbour Afghanistan. Moreover, with continuing PEC operational
                                     improvements, the project is becoming a model for the rest of the country
                                     and region.
Political Risk         Moderate      Changes in policy and legal framework may adversely affect the project.
                                     Key elements of the framework is regulated in the Concession Agreement.
                                     PEC‟s continuing high levels of service provision provide local political
                                     support.
Political Stability    Low           AKFED‟s deep roots in the region limit this risk to a large extent;
                                     proximity of boarder to Afghanistan: same ethnic group is living on both
                                     sides, friendly relations. PEC‟s energy provision to Afghanistan also
                                     creates goodwill between the two sides, and PEC will continue expanding
                                     this program.
Support in financial   Moderate      WB and Government of Tajikistan provided high support in the
difficulties                         sustainability of the company, and the financial restructuring outcomes are
                                     the strong evidence for that.
Capacity building      Low           It was required for improving quality have taken longer than earlier
programs                             anticipated

 IV. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
 Bank
(a) Quality at Entry
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The task team‟s consistent engagement and
responsiveness is acknowledged by Government of Tajikistan and Pamir Energy. The Bank has
maintained intensive dialogue with Government officials and Pamir Energy shareholders outside the
energy sector, including finance and planning, which has helped to address many managerial issues
within the context of the overall development and financing framework. At the operational level,
consistent engagement has enabled effective review of progress and discussion on areas needing
acceleration. Effective coordination has enabled better alignment between available technical
expertise and resources and with the needs of the project.
(b) Quality of Supervision
The quality of the supervision was satisfactory. That allowed to have efficient management,
planning, budgeting and implementation of the project components.

Borrower
(a) Government Performance:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory at all levels. At the Government level, the good
progress and satisfactory achievement of objectives has been based on strong political championship,
alignment of vision and strategy among the key Ministries. The Ministers‟ (Ministry of Finance,




                                                 42
Ministry of Energy and Industry, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade) keen interest and
monthly reviews of implementation progress have helped keep the project on track.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:
Implementing Agency (IA) performance is rated as satisfactory. The good progress and satisfactory
achievement of objectives has been based on intensive monitoring and oversight by the dedicated
operational teams. IA project management team constantly monitored the progress, addressed the
bottlenecks, and provided overall guidance on the efficiency of the project components. The IA
intensive monitoring and analysis has ensured that the project momentum is maintained, especially
in timely implementation and delivery of inputs, and that decisions are based on information and
analysis. The planned capacity building program enabled the project team to further improve their
performance.

V. Lessons Learned

It will be good to draw Lessons under the following categories:
Important factors for the success of a project:
1. Management
Given the difficult environment in which the PamirEnergy project placed, the goals set for the
project, and the limited resources available, high quality management was always a pre-requisite for
success. The initial plan included the extensive use of consultants to initially manage the project
implementation and advise local management going forward. The existing General Director was
seen as a key player in the future of the company, and the sponsors planned on retaining him, while
supporting him and the senior management team with training and close board supervision.

Tragically, early in the project, the General Director died in a car accident, and it was not apparent
who could succeed him from the management team. The sponsors therefore attempted to utilize
foreign managers. Identifying a qualified candidate who was qualified, prepared to live and work in
Khorog, and capable of managing the utility and politics proved extremely difficult, and the
company had a total of 4 General Directors in the initial 4 years. Following the accident in 2007, on
the departure of the General Director at the time, AKFED identified a resident of GBAO, who has
served as the company‟s General Director since.

The challenges the PamirEnergy project faced are hard in themselves to describe. To turn around a
historically loss making utility, operated and accepted as a social good, in the poorest region of the
poorest country of the former Soviet Union, in an isolated region of an isolated country, raising
tariffs, increasing collections, and implementing construction projects at extremely high altitudes,
while trying to maintain budgets, build human resources and deliver financial results. More
attention should have been paid to the management of the company and to supporting development
of local staff. Change in human resources has been, and continues to be, a top challenge of the
company.

Identifying a qualified local manager has proven to be among the keys to the company‟s success in
recent years. The ability to deal with the local community, understand the nuances of local politics,
while at the same time recognizing what is possible and leading organizational change are all only
really possible with a native of the environment in which one works. It is the sponsors‟ full intention
to continue to develop local human resources in the management team, in order to accelerate


                                                43
company change, spread the management burden, and ensure long term viability and growth for the
company.

2. Collections
The electricity in GBAO was always subsidized and people conceived energy as a gift. When Pamir
Energy was established and tariffs increased, people still kept the attitude from old years,
contributing to higher and higher debts and not willing to pay. Beside the issue of “willingness to
pay?, the issue was also with collectors who did not have motivation to make efforts to collect the
bills or finds thefts. All these led to high losses and thefts, resulting in limited power supply in
Khorog and no power supply in regions.

Pamir Energy started with installation of meters on generation capacities and further down to
transmission and distribution network, including meters for end consumers. Bills became more
correct and people started realizing that bills should be paid.
PEC established the disconnection teams, Customer Service Center and New Billing System to bring
transparency and improve the collection rate and remove the issue of “willingness-to-pay? among
consumers.

PEC introduced a bonus system for Khorog Sales specialists and that gave good results, making the
collection % as of sales more than 100%. PEC is introducing the bonus system in regions to make
the collection better and collect the outstanding debts from previous years. Trade days decreased
from 159 days in 2009 to 99 days in 2010.

Using billing system, PEC shows the history of the last 12 months bills on each monthly bill of the
consumers, so consumers see when and how much they have paid, reconcile the data with their
meters. This improved significantly the collection and the image of the company. Previously, theft
was normal and people were sharing with each other how to steal energy. Today, consumers see the
theft a very bad behavior and sometimes, people calling PEC on the hot line to inform that some
neighbor or person is stealing energy. Collection increased above 100% in 2010, and PEC is
intending to collect not only the whole sales in 2011, but also more outstanding debts from previous
years in 2011.

PEC learned that high quality service and incentive system for sales specialists can improve
everything – sales, collections, image, transparency, and reputation of the company.

3. Ice, Sediments and Water Flow
Ice, sediments and water management were always a big issue for Pamir I, Khorog and Namangut
HPPs. Sediments and ice resulted in deterioration of turbine parts, reduction of available capacity of
the plants (low generation), limited energy supply and rationing for the consumers, and high
expenses for Pamir Energy while cleaning the sedimentation basin once in 2 years (Pamir I) and
replacing and maintaining the units of all affected HPPs. Namangut HPP was stopped every years
for 3-4 months, while in the last 4 years, it was not suspended at all due to the measures taken by
PEC. However, substantial repair and maintenance is required.

PEC General Director and two other key staff visited Sweden to learn how to deal with fragile ice
having similar harsh winter as in Pamir region. PEC implemented several pilot projects and since



                                               44
2009, the sediments and fragile ice issue is being resolved (in 2009, sediments and fragile ice issue
was minimized and in 2010, the issue was completely resolved for Pamir I and Khorog HPPs).

PEC took anti-filtration measures at Lake Yashilkul guaranteeing the stable water supply to Pamir I
and Khorog HPPs during the winter. In 2010, PEC economized around 20 million m3 of waters in
the lake due to the anti-filtration measures.

Intakes of Khorog HPP, Vanj HPP and Shujand HPP had issues with water flow and water
management. In Khorog, the issue was resolved with the several projects on the channel intake.
Shujand issue was partially resolved. In Vanj HPP, the intake is the most serious issue – there is
always a bulldozer in the intake to enhance the intake constantly.

PEC procured dredging pump which removes the sediments from Pamir I sedimentation basin,
without stoppage of the HPP for the whole month. PEC built two Ice blocking systems to prevent the
ice penetration into the basin and further to the turbines. Fragile ice contains sediments as well, so
the systems resolved partially also the sediments issue.

Better water flow management, measures against frazil ice and sediments improved the reliability of
two main power plants, resulting in more energy supply in the region. Today, PEC has surplus of
4MW in winter peak times, while some 4 years ago, PEC had deficit in even non-peak hours of
winter season.

4. Community Relations
Before, community had a stereotype that energy should be cheap or free. With higher tariffs, some
consumers did not want to pay for the energy they consumed (willingness-to-pay issue). Due to the
lack of meters and high thefts, group metering was introduced which actually worsened the relation
between the community and PEC. Issues with Government started as well. Theft accepted as a
normal, and many people were sharing with each other how to steal the energy easier. PEC
controllers/sales specialists were sometimes beaten by some aggressive consumers when they
required the payment of the bills.

PEC started from visiting the community. People wanted to talk directly with General Director, and
GD visited the community in person to hear them, to talk with them. There were bad words and
threats, but PEC listened to people, agreed on some issues and moved forward. For example, PEC
promised to improve the energy supply and install meters, while consumers will pay for their
outstanding bills and will not steal energy.

PEC started to work with TV stations, radios, newspapers, distribute brochures and meet with
community leaders to improve the PEC reputation and relation with the community. PEC launched
the re-metering program and today, more than 83% of the energy goes through new electronic
meters.

PEC launched Customer Service Center (first in Tajikistan) to respond immediately to consumers
requests. Complains to CSC reduced from 1500/year in 2008 to 150/year in 2010. More than 95% of
the requests to the center are coming with the issue of information or explanation of the bills or
tariffs, not overcharging as it used to be.



                                               45
PEC launched hot-line to which consumers can call and ask about their issues. Today, many
consumers call to the hot-line and inform on some consumers that steal energy. People think that it is
really bad and shameful to steal energy.

PEC launched social projects to help the community with other issues. For example, the clean water
pipeline in Bogev village of Shugnan, or sponsorship of the chess classes in all Khorog schools, or
sponsoring sportsmen in the regional or international competitions.

Today, PEC has high reputation in the community and is one of the best employers in the region.
Individual approach is required to have efficient resolution for the issues raised among the
consumers, or between company and consumers.

Meters are highly important for the reputation, image and trust to the company among consumers.
Group metering brings dissatisfaction and makes the willingness-to-pay a serious issue.
Dissatisfaction results in the creativity of the consumers in the way they steal energy and share with
others.

Hotline is necessary to listen to consumers requests when they want to ask or share information
confidentially. Customer Service Center is essential when you work with majority of the members of
the community. People should know what they receive, how much they receive and what and how it
should be paid for. Image and reputation of the company, relation between company and consumers
is essential for having proper and prosper business.

Project Design:
Project design process brought a good experience for the company. Pamir Energy gained skills on
working together with WB specialists and prepare projects specification and procurement plans in
accordance with WB policies and rules.
As well, lessons learned how to deal more efficiently with Government agencies, and improve the
relation between all stakeholders.

Implementation:
During the implementation, the hotspots were identified and measures were taken to improve it.
Projects were implemented not only from the technical point of view, but also other aspects/impacts
of the projects were analyzed and were resolved. For example, while building the dam at the Lake
Yashilkul, the environmental issues, fish population and impacts on pasture area were taken into
consideration.
      Monitoring:
Several WB missions were arranged to Pamir Energy. The process of reporting, improvement of the
reporting progress and compliance with the WB rules were beneficial for PEC. Constant monitoring
of the project created a benchmark for some reporting, project design and preparation,
implementation and monitoring improvement in the company. PEC made a huge step in efficiency
and cost-effective analysis of the projects.
      Procurement:
It is a valuable knowledge in the creation, management and follow-up of the procurement plans,
compliance with rules and policies. The experience of tenders announcement, working with


                                               46
international suppliers and partners, negotiation with WB on the procurement and “no-objection?
resulted in more efficient management of the projects. PEC uses the lessons learned in all
procurement stages in the company, such as CapEx projects.

Comments on IDA’s ICR

Pamir Energy considers that the ICR should rate Outcome and Implementing Agency Performance
as “Highly Satisfactory?.
Pamir Energy has gained a valuable knowledge from the World Bank team in creation, management
and follow up of the procurement plans, compliance with rules and policies, interacting with the
World Bank on procurement and „no-objection‟, resulting in more efficient management of projects.
The World Bank team has been always receptive and supportive indeed. It took timely and
professional manner by the World Bank to enable Pamir Energy to finalize the project within the
budget and in time. Despite the skepticism, GoT, WB and other stakeholders managed to mobilize
the required resources to put back into operation three out of four units at Pamir I after the
catastrophic flooding in February 2007 in the shortest possible time. The World Bank had also
supported the remetering program in Khorog (over 6,000 sets of the meters with the budget of
US$700,000) that enabled the company dramatically to reduce losses from as high as 60% down to
as less as 14% in Khorog. This project is seen as a key in turning around situation in Khorog.
Through the whole project, the World Bank provided technical advises on specification of the
equipment and identifying solutions for the challenges. The World Bank technical support in
resolving sediments and fragile ice issues at Pamir I were of the high asset. Pamir Energy looks
forward to continued cooperation with and support from the World Bank during the process of the
negotiation with the GoT in regards to IDA loan interest rate.




                                             47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

   I.      Comments from Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development (AKFED)

   PamirEnergy has been a challenging, but highly rewarding project. The task of
   turning a historically subsidized utility in an extremely poor environment, where
   energy was perceived as a social good, into an operationally sound and profitable
   company in several years was difficult, but the results have exceeded our expectations.
   PamirEnergy now provides the best energy supply in the country, and unlike any
   other area of Tajikistan, has excess energy even in winter, in spite of it being the
   coldest region of the country. Losses are lower, and collections are higher than any
   other area in the country, and the company continues to improve on both metrics.
   Tariffs were raised gradually, and the company is now in a position to generate small
   profits, while continuing to invest approximately $1 million in internally generated
   funds into annual, ongoing capital expenditure, in order to ensure high operational
   performance in the future, beyond the concession term. With new projects to sell into
   Afghanistan being developed, the financial outlook for the company will only
   improve. In sum, PEC took from the Government a subsidized, poorly operating and
   collapsing utility in the poorest region of the country, and will return to the
   Government the best performing, financially successful and completely sustainable
   utility. Taking this into consideration, we believe the project cannot be considered
   less than highly successful.




                                           48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document for Tajikistan Pamir Private Power Project, dated May 31, 2002
    (Report No. 24068-TJ).
   Concession Agreement between Government of the Republic of Tajikistan and Pamir Energy
    Company, dated May 24, 2002.
   Aide memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
   Project Progress Reports.
   PEC‟s Implementation Completion Report, May 2011.
   Legal Agreements related to the Project
   Project Paper, Additional Financing, dated June 23, 2008.
   Project Restructuring Paper, dated December 29, 2010.
   Pamir Energy Operational Review, Monthly Report, December 2010.




                                             49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 31770
                                                 68                                                                                               70                                                                                                                                                       TAJIKISTAN

                                                      KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                        Sy
                                                                                          rd                       U Z B E K I S TA N                                                           To Tashkent                                                           PAMIR PRIVATE POWER PROJECT




                                                                                           ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES                                                 ELEVATIONS:




                                                                                               '
                                                                                               '
                                                                                               'ya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT:                                                                                                                                       (IN METERS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTERS**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HYDRO POWER PLANTS                                                                                                                                     6000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                                                Taboshar                                ya                                                       REHABILITATION OF 35KV LINE                                                                                                                           5000
                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                 rda




                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                      To Tashkent                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                          4000
                                                                                                                                                               Sy                                                                NEW 35KV LINE*
                                                                                                                                                                                               To Quqon                                                                                                                                                                                3000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                               Khodjand                                                                                                          REHABILITATION OF OTHER                                                                                                                               2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35KV AND 10KV LINES                                                         HIGHWAYS                                                                  1000
                                                                                                                                                                         Konibodom
                                                                                                                   Chkolovsk                                                                                                     REGULATING STRUCTURE                                                        AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARIES
40                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING SUB STATION                                                           OBLAST BOUNDARIES***

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                 Ura-
                                                                                                 Tyube                                                                                                                                           * Pole-mounted with a narrow corridor requirement, constructed on the present right-of-way of the two existing 35 kV lines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ** Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions, where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
                                                                                        Shahriostan                                                                                                                                              *** An oblast is named only when its name differs from that of its administrative center.


                                  Pendzhikent
                                                                                                                                                         K Y R G Y Z R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72                                                                                              74
 To Samarqand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           uu
                                                                                          Zeravshan                                                                                                                                                Kyzy l-S
                                                          Ayni



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kaindy
                                                                                                                                                                         S u rk h o b                                                                                                  Ozero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Karakul'
                                                                                                                                              Komsomolabad
                                                                                                                                                                                           u
                                                                                                                                                                                     ing o
                                                                                                                                                                                  ikh
                                                                                                                                                                             Ob                                                                               Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
      U Z B E K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s




                                                                                                                         sh
                                                                                    DUSHANBE




                                                                                                                       kh
                                                                                                                     Va
                                                          Tursunzade                                                             u
                                                                  n                                                          y ls                                                                                     nj
                                                                                                         Nurek             yz                                      Kalaikhum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Va
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rangkul'
                                                                 a
                                                             ni g




                                                                                                                       K
                                                             fir




                                 To Denau                                                                          Nurek
                                                           Ka




                                                                                    Yavan                                                                                                                         Vanj
                                                                                                                   Reservoir
                                                                                                                   Reser voir                                                        Vanj Hydro                                  l   em                                Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gue                        an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yaz




                                                                                                                                                                  nj
                                                                                                                                                                                     Power Plant                                                                            Sarez




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rt
                                                                                                                                                                Pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                                Leningradskiy                                                                                                                                                    Murghab         Murgab
                                                                                                              Dangara                u
38
                                                                                                                               hs
                                                                                                                            Yak                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Aksu

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rushan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GORNO-                                                                                                       38

                                                                                         Kalininabad                                 Kulyab                                                                                                                                         BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                 Kurgan-Tyube                                                                                                                                                                                   Lake   A.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yashikul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yashikul
                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW 35 kV LINE                                        Gunt   Charsem                                                               Alichur
                                                                                                                         Moskovskiy                                                                                                                                                                          Alichr
               To Bukhoro                        Garavuti
                                                                                                 Parkhar
                                                                                                                                                                                         Khorog Hydro
                                                                                                                                                                                          Power Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Khorog Pamir Hydro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Power Plant
                                                     sh




                                                                                               Pyandzh
                                                 Vakh




                                                              zh
                                      Shaartuz        Pya n d                                                                                                                        REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Andarob                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                      OF 35 kV LINE                                                                                   mi                                                   74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ra                               Pa
                                                                     To Konduz                                                                                                                                                                 khda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vrang

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Aral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                     A F G H A N I S TA N                                                                                                                               Ishkashim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Caspian Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Balkash
                                                                                                                                                                                               Namangut Hydro
This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                         Power Plant                                                                                                                              UZBEKISTAN
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                                           0           25            50         75                   100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA K I S TA N
any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TURKMENISTAN                                                KYRGYZ REP.
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                          0                    25                  50                         75                   100 Miles                                                                                                                                                                 Dushanbe
legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAJ I K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IST
or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISLAMIC REP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
boundaries.                            68                                                                                                70                                                                                               72                                                                OF IRAN                                                                           CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEBRUARY 2002
