Tajikistan: Providing Reliable Electricity in the Pamir Mountains                                          94124
                                                                                                          April 17, 2012




    The First Public-Private Energy Sector Partnership in Tajikistan


Synopsis
International Development Association (IDA) and International Finance Corporation (IFC)
helped to establish a vivid example of how a public-private partnership can effectively work to
provide affordable, reliable, and clean energy in a challenging environment. Electricity supply in
the poorest region of Tajikistan has increased from three hours to 22–24 hours per day during
the winter. An estimated 220,000 people, including more than half of which are women, have
benefitted from improved electricity services. As a result of the project, schools, hospitals, and
businesses can now stay open during the cold winter months.
 



Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
Gorno-Badakshan Autonomous Oblast (GBAO)
was the poorest and most isolated region in
Tajikistan. Following the collapse of the Soviet
Union and a five-year civil war, the power
infrastructure in the region was in dismal shape;
60 percent of inhabitants had no energy during
the winter and 15 percent had no energy at all.
Frequent power outages were common for
everyone. Together with GBAO’s mountainous
and remote conditions, the population’s low-
income levels and political instability created a
harsh environment unlikely to attract private          MORE
investments. Due to the unreliable electricity
                                                         Slideshow:  Beaming Light on Tajikistan's Roof
supply, schools, hospitals, and businesses were          of the World
frequently forced to close, especially during the
winter, thus undermining economic and human
development in GBAO. Many of the residents in
the region resorted to wood fuel for their heating and cooking        More Results
needs, resulting in an increase in respiratory disorders and
the loss of 70 percent of the area’s tree cover between 1992
and 2002.

Approach                                                                24
                                                                        over 70% of consumers in
The project was designed as a public-private partnership                GBAO receive electricity 24
between the Government of Tajikistan, the World Bank                    hours a day in winter
Group, and the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development
(AKFED). In order to reconcile the commercial objectives of
private investors with the social objectives of the
Government, the project was a combination of elements: a
25-year concession agreement with the Government of                     100%
Tajikistan provided the basis for establishing Pamir Energy             of electricity bills were collected
Company, a joint stock company owned by AKFED (70%)                     by Pamir Energy in 2010
and the IFC (30%). In accordance with this agreement, the
company manages most Government-owned electricity
assets in GBAO. The project supported the rehabilitation of             MORE INFORMATION
the hydropower infrastructure and transmission lines to
increase electricity supply capacity. The affordability of               Pamir Private Power Project
                                                                         (2002-2010)
electricity for the poorest households was ensured by a
lifeline subsidy scheme funded primarily by a grant from the             World Bank Group Project
Government of Switzerland. As this subsidy was provided                  Website
upon delivery of electricity services, the project also                  IFC Project Website
integrated the concept of output-based aid.
                                                                         The World Bank in Tajikistan

                                                                         Country Program Snapshot
Results
                                                                         RESULTS: Beaming Light on
The Pamir Private Project has helped to enhance
                                                                         Tajikistan's Roof of the World
development and improve welfare in GBAO by providing
reliable, affordable, and clean electricity.

       Annual power generation has increased from 135,000            
       MWh per year in 2002 to 174,395 MWh in 2009 and
       163,215 MWh in 2010 (lower demand). The total
       installed capacity increased from 33 to 43.5 megawatts.

       Over 70 percent of consumers in GBAO, including 127,000 people, 745 commercial
       consumers and 360 governmental entities, now receive around-the-clock electricity in
       winter compared to only three hours per day in 2002. About 27% of the consumers in
       isolated areas now receive an electricity supply of 8–16 hours per day. The supply
       service in GBAO is currently better than in most other areas in Tajikistan.

       Instead of rationing electricity, Pamir Energy is now also able to supply electricity to over
       1,000 households as well as hospitals, schools, and businesses in neighboring
       Afghanistan.

       Technical and nontechnical losses in the transmission and distribution network have
       been reduced from 39 percent in 2006 to 19.9 percent in 2010; the collection of
       electricity bills has increased from 40 percent in 2002 to around 100 percent of sales in
       2010.

       Affordable and clean hydropower displaced the use of high-polluting diesel generators
       and firewood as energy supplies.

       In contrast to the previously subsidized state-owned utility, the Pamir Energy
       Company’s operating income and cash flow became positive in 2009.

Bank Contribution
IDA’s concessional financing was critical for reconciling commercial objectives of the private
sector and the social objectives of providing affordable and reliable electricity supply to poor
consumers. IDA provided a $10 million credit to the Government of Tajikistan to finance the
initial capital expenditure of the project amounting to US$26.4 million. After catastrophic
flooding in February 2007, which severely damaged one of the hydropower plants, IDA
provided an additional grant of $2.5 million in order to help rehabilitate the damaged plant and
prevent further accidents. In total, IDA was the largest financier in the project by contributing
about 37% of financial resources. The World Bank Group through IFC also provided $3.5
million in equity and $4.5 million in debt, later converted to equity, to Pamir Energy Company.
Partners
The public-private partnership was a successful outcome of the concerted actions and
contribution of several donors. IFC partnered with AKFED to establish Pamir Energy Company.
IDA and IFC’s joint involvement was critical in mobilizing grant financing from the Swiss
Government to support the lifeline subsidy scheme via an IDA-administered trust fund.
Following the improvement of electricity services in GBAO, the project leveraged financial
support from the U.S. Agency for International Development, the Roshan Company (part of the
AKFED Network), and the Government of Norway to enable exports to neighboring villages in
northern Afghanistan.

Moving Forward
Investments made under the project are expected to have a lifetime of at least 25–30 years.
Pamir Energy will continue to manage and expand all Government-owned electricity assets in
GBAO for the remaining 16 years of the concession agreement. The company has prepared a
business plan for 2010–15 that includes an annual allocation of budgets for plant maintenance
and further investment programs, such as the completion of the metering of all consumers by
2014. This would allow a further reduction in distribution losses and more targeted subsidies.
The Government of Switzerland intends to provide further assistance to finalize the metering
program and finance a World Bank-administered modified subsidy scheme for another three
years.

Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries of the project are the people and businesses in GBAO and northern Afghanistan,
who can now enjoy a reliable and clean energy supply. “We did not have electricity in the past
and we had to use stoves which caused a lot of problem because of the wet wood and smoke
in the rooms,” says Abdullahjan Abdulkhaliq, a school teacher in Afghanistan’s Shugnan
Province. “[Since] we have electricity, we are able to use electric heaters and all electric
appliances. We have ten computers in our ICT classroom. Children have regular classes and
the education process has improved since the time of power supply.”

 
