Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6440-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
January 20, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Carribean Regional Office
M.s document has a rer-ieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
meat offcial dutdes. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Brazilian Cruzados (Cz$)
US$1           -  Cz$ 13.80 1/
Cz$ 1          -  US$0.07246
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABDER       -   Associasao Brasileira dos Departamentos de Estradas de Rodagem
Association of State Road Departments
ADT         -   Average Daily Traffic
BNDES       -   Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Bank for Economic and Social Development
DER         -   Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Estatal)
State Roads Department
DER-SP      -   Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Sao Paulo
Roads Department - Sao Paulo State
DERSA       -   Desenvolvimento Rodoviario, S.A.
Highway Development Corporation
DNER        -   Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
EMS         -   Equipment Management Syste%
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
FEPASA      -   Ferrovia Paulista, S.A.
Sao Paulo Railway
FHA         -   Federal Highway Administration - U.S. Department of Transportation
GEIPOT      -   Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
HDM         -   Highway Design and Maintenance Model
MT          -   Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
NDP         -   National Development Plan
PMS         -   Pavement Management System
PORTOBRAS   -   Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA       -   Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SAC         -   Sistema de Administracao de Conservacao
Routine Maintenance Management System
SEP         -   Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Planning - Sao Pauilo State
ST          -   Secretaria dos Transportes do Estado de Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Transport - Sao Paulo State
SUNAMAN     -   Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Navy
/ Exchange rate for the period February 28-October 17, 1986 which was used for all
calculations in this report. Since October 17, 1986, the cruzado has been
devalued marginally; the rate on January 20, 1987 was US$1.0 = Cz$ 15.75.



FOR OFFICIAL US13 ONLY
STA? APPRISL REPO"R
BRAZIL
STATE BICAYS I"NAGDE  PROECT - SAO PABL
TAB   0P COF INTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY  I......,......e........o .......................           1
II.   THE 17RANSPORT SECTOP. ***@****#***@***...........................          3
A.   Transport Development and the Economy .....           ................    3
B.   Country Sector Strategy             ..................................  4
C.   Bank Involvement irb the Sector             ...........................    4
D.   Transport in the State of Sao Paulo .......................            5
')  Economic Context  ..........................     999999*99    5
(ii)  Infrastructure and Operations ......................           6
(til)  Transport Management           ...............................  7
(iv)  Highway Administration           .............................    8
(v) DER-SP's Expenditure and Funding P-ogram
(1987-1990)    ......................... ......    11
III.   THE PROJECT        .....................                                   12
A.  Project Origin and Objective                    ...                    12
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement                   ...                  13
C.  Project Components ..                             ......              14
(i) Highway Rehabilitation                   ...                   14
(ii)  Equipment iehabilitation                              ...    14
(iil)  Trating Program         .                                   15
(iv) Technical Assistance ...                                       15
D.  Project Cost and Financing                     . . .                  16
E. Economic Justification                        . . .                    16
F.   Froject Risk                             .       . ............  18
IV.  PROJECT EXECUTION 99 99999999            99     99................  9       19
A.   Subproject Selection, Preparat.on and Evaluation ......              19
B.   Project Implementation and Honitoring                                19
C.   Procurewnt and Consultant Services                            ...   20
D.   Disbursements, Accounts and Audits                                   21
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in June/July 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. Otto Raggambi
(Senior Engineer and mission leader), Pedro Geraldes (Transport Economist),
and George Osborne (Highway Administration Specialist/FHA Consultant). The
appraisal mission was assisted in the preparation of the project by Giuseppe
Horra (Senior Training Specialist). The report has been edited by
Ms. V. Foster.
This document hata restrcted disibution and may be wed by recipients only in Xt  perfomance|
of thi offil dutie Its tcontent may not otwi  be discoed without World Bank auhoiztion.



- ii. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Ve   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....., ....................   23
TABLES
2.1    Natioual Road Network (1985) ......,........e.................   25
2.2    National Modal Traffic Shares (1980-1985) ....................   26
2.3    Federal Is;estments in the Transport Sector ......o.o......o...  27
2.4    Transport Demand for Freight in the State of Sao Paulo o..o..    28
2.5    Sao Paulo State Road Network (1986)       ...........................   29
2.6    Pavement Condition Survey (January 1986) ......................  30
2.7    Revenues from Taxes Levied on State Road-Users and
DER-SP Expenditures (1980-1985) oooooo.*........*..*..*......    31
2.8    Summary of DER-SP Expenditures and Receipts (1987-1990)  o......  32
3.1    Highways Rehabilitation Program (1987-1990) ...................  33
3.2    Highways Rehabilitation Program, Group I Roads    ................   34
3.3    Highways Rehabilitation Program, Group II Roads    ...............   35
3.4    Results of Economic Analysis:  Highways Rehabilitation,
Group I Roads oooooooooo.o...o.ooooooooooooooooo.oooooo.o..o.  36
4.1    Subproject Data Sheet o.oo.....o..............o.      ..o.oo ....oo,   37
4.2    Project Implementation Schedule ...............................   39
4.3    Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...................0..............., 40
4.4    Schedule of Estimated Disbursements ...........................  41
ANNEXES
1.    Road Transport Subsector Background    ..........................   42
2.    Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector in Brazil   ............    49
3     State Highways Administration       ................................   55
4.    Training Program o....................0..0.0......0..0....00..    61
5.    Technical Assistance - Studies and Services      ..................    68
6.    Economic Analysis  ....     ooooo.ooooo..ooo..o..................   , 79
7.    Project Monitoring oo . . .. .......................... .....      84
8.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....   87
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Organization of the State Secretariat of Transport-SP ....    88
Chart 2 - Organization of the State Roads Department-SP ............    89
Chart 3 - Proposed Reorganization of the Upper Structure of
the State Roads Department-SP ooo.oooo..ooo..o.o.ooo..oo   90
MAP
IBRD 19794   Brazil:  State of Sao Paulo - State Highways
Management Project



BRAZIL
STATE UH0 AYS 1A        IT PrOJECT - SAO PAULO
PIOJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The State of Sao Paulo of Brazil
Guarantor:     The Federative Republic of Brazil
Project
Executing
Agerncy:       Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem - Sao Paulo (DER-SP)
Amount:        US$174 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Project        The proposed project would assist DER-SP in the implementa-
Description:   tion of selected components of its 1987-1990 expenditure
program and, through supporting institutional reforms, would
help to improve tne efficiency of administration to achieve
more effective management of the State transport system. The
proposed project comprises: (i) civil works for the
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of State highways and
associated consultant services for engineering design and
construction supervision; (ii) equipment rehabilitation;
(iii) a training program; and (iv) technical assistance for
studies related to State transport policy, planning and
operations, and highway management and research.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would accrue to the economy at
large, through vehicle operating costs savings. In addition,
intensified staff training and other institutional measures
supported by the technical assistance are expected to improve
the overall efficiency of the management and operations of the
State transport sector and, in particular, the highway
*Gubsector.
Risks:         There are no major risks which are likely to affect the
proposed project. Since DER-SP is a first-time executing
agency of a Bank-financed project, there could be some initial
delays due to unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. Such delays
would be minimized by intensive supervision early in the
project cycle. No difficulty is anticipated in the provision
of adequate counterpart funding since the loan is the only
direct source of foreign financing in DER-SP's funding program
and the counterpart requirements, excluding contingencies,
represent only about 11.5X of DER-SP's 1987-1990 expenditure
program.



-2-
Batiated C08ts:                                 Local     Foreign      Total
US$ Million --
Highway Rehabilitation                     186.40      141.16    327.56
Equipment Rehabilitation                     1.40        2.10       3.50
Training Program                            3.85         1.66       5.31
Techuical Assistance                        2.67          1.17      3.84
Total Base Cost                           194.32       145.89    340.21
Physical Contingencies                   17.61        13.94      31.55
Price Contingencies                      19.32        14.57      33.89
Total Project Cost                        231.25       174.40    405.65  /
Finsaclng Plan:                                 Local      Foreign     Total
=---JUS$ Million--
Government                                231.25         0.40    231.65
IBRD                                         -         174.00    174.00
Total                                     231.25       174.40    405.65
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
- US$ Million           -   -
Annual        16.0 2/ 15.0   20.0   25.0   29.0   28.0   23.0   14.0    4.0
Cumulative   16.0    31.0   51.0   76.0  105.0  133.0  156.0  170.0  174.0
Rate of         About 45% based upon the evaluation of the highway
Return:         rehabilitation component which represents 96% of the total
base cost of the project.
1/ Identifiable taxes and duties, and reserved procurement are about
US$57.65 million equivalent and total project cost, net of taxes, is
US$348.00 million equivalent.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$12.0 million into Special Accounts.



II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Trarsport Development and the Economy
2.01      Brazil enjoyed a rapid economic growth throughout the 1960s and the
1970s.   A progressive deterioration of the terms of trade throughout the
later 1970s and early 19809, and mounting debt service obligations led the
Government to implement needed stabilization policies and programs.   GDP,
which had been growing at over 10% p.a. until 1973 and at an average 7% p.a.
until the end of the 1970s, declined throughout the 1981-1983 period.  Mo re
recently, and as a resuLt of the macroeconomic stabilization effort, the
economy regained momentum, with GDP growing by about 4.5% in 1984 and by 8.3%
in 1985.
2.02       Brazil has an extensive transport system.  The road network has a
length of over 1.4 million km, but less than 20% of it accounts for almost
80% of the total interregional  road traffic.   About 6% of the network
consists of federal higlhways, of which 62% paved; 10% state highways, of
which 35% paved; and 83%, largely unpaved municipal roads (Table 2.1).  The
railway network has about 29,000 km of lines in operation, of which some 80%
constitute the federal network responsible for 41% of the total railway
freight traffic and for the major part of railway passenger traffic.   The
country has 38 important deep-water ports in addition to a large number of
specialized bulk-facility terminals spotted along the coast.  The transport
system is further complemented by some 40,000 km of navigable rivers.
Transport output has been growing at rates higher than GDP during the past
two decades, with freight and intercity passenger traffic increasing at an
average 9 and 13% p.a. respectively. In 1981-1983, following the decline in
GDP, freight traffic stabilized, whereas passenger traffic continued to grow,
but at a much lower rate (Table 2.2).  From 1984 onward, in line with the
economic recovery, traffic growth resumed at average annual rates approaching
6% p.a. Road transport is the dominant mode, accounting for about 55% of the
total freight and for up to 95% of intercity passenger traffic. The railways
have succeeded in increasing their share of freight traffic to 24% of the
total in the mid-1980s from 17% in the early 1960s, increasingly specializing
in  fewer  commodities  and  longer  hauls.    Coastal  and  inland  shipping,
virtually stagnant for many years, has grown at an annual rate of about 8%
since 1973, specializing in bulk cargoes.
2.03      During the 1960s and early 1970s, massive public sector investments
were made by the Federal Government in transport infrastructure, accounting
for almost 20% of total public investment in the mid-1970s. Until 1973-1974,
the largest share of federal investments in transport was directed to the
construction and paving  of a network of primary highways.   The sudden
increase in petroleum prices led the Federal Government to put more emphasis
upon the development of rail and water transport. Large railway investments
were undertaken, in conjunction with ambitious plans for the expansion of the
steel industry, at a time of favorable prospects in the iron ore and steel
markets. Considerable efforts were also made to develop a national merchant
marine fleet for both ocean and costal shipping, and a domestic shipbuilding
industry. In addition, programs were started to increase the capacity of the
suburban commuter systemL in the main metropolitan areas.



- 4 -
2.04       Federal investment in transport in the first half of the 1980s was
shaped by the Government's austerity program. Sector investments were scaled
down drastically; in 1984, federal investments in transport were about half
their 1976 level, in real terms (Table 2.3). The completion of several major
projects had to be postpoined.  The only significant railway investment was
that for the integrated Carajas iron ore project, while highway construction
was limited to the recently completed Northwest Highway, Loth financed by the
Bank. Port investments were limited essentially to the completion of three
industrial ports.   The programs for improving suburban commuttng services
were  continued,  but  at  a slower  pace.    Although  investment priorities
gradually shifted from rtew construction to the rehabilitation of essential
facilities,  in  particular  those  associated  with  external  trade  and
agricultural development, insufficient funding led to the postponement of
needed infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation sectorwide.   Country
sector policy for the second half of the 1980s adequately acknowledges the
necessity  to  recover  the  backlog  of  infrastructure  rehabilitation.
Background information covering the road transport subsector is presented in
Annex 1.
B.   Country Sector Strategy
2.05         Country transport policy in the second half of the 1980s is
outlined in a policy paper issued by the Ministry of Transport (MT) as a
contribution to the New Republic's First National Development Plan (NDP).
Sector strategy would, in line with broader efforts to consolidate adjustment
and sustain the economic recovery, aim to improve the performance of sector
agencies, as well as to support other important objectives related to export
promotion, agricultural growth and energy conservation.   Public investment
would emphasize the rehabilitation and maintenance of essential facilities
and projects with short payback periods. For the highway subsector, in line
with its sector strategy, the Government would: (a) increase its investments
in the rehabilitation and maintenance of road infrastructure; (b) improve the
internal efficiency of subsector agencies; and (c) streamline the functions
and responsibilities of subsector institutions at the Federal, State and
Municipal levels, in the context of a broader decentralization effort.  The
Bank's strategy for the transport sector supports these objectives, which are
being addressed under several lending operations.
C.   Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.06       Before the mid-1970s, the Bank's primary concern in the transport
sector was with expanding the system. For the highway subsector, five loans
totaling US$376 million were made between 1968 and 1975.  Thereafter, the
emphasis shifted to road rehabilitation and maintenance, to developments in
the agricultural sector, and to regional development programs.   Since the
shift in strategy, the Bank has made two loans for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation, totaling US$324 million, and three loans for feeder roads,
totaling US$319 million. In addition, 14 agricultural and rural development
projects have included feeder road components, totaling about 23,000 km. The
highway project for the Northwest Region Development Program (US$240 million)
is a component of a comprehensive program to harness the agricultural
potential of the Northwest Region.   The Bank's involvement in the highway



subsector in Brazil, spanning 20 years, has been successful.   Almost all
project objectives have been, or are expected to be, achieved, although some
shortfalls la the technical and administrative capability of the executing
agencies, comiined with several external factors such as economic recessions
and high inflation, influenced the pattern of project implementations.
Through each project, key institutional and technical deficiencies were also
addressed.   The Fifth, the Sixth and the Federal Highway Sector Projects
provided assistance to some State Road Departments (DERs) for maintenance
management  and  training,   and  the  Feeder  Road  Projects  contributed
significantly to Government programs to improve access to productive
agricultural areas and isolated communities.   The Bank has made five loans
for the railway subsector since 1971, totaling US$655 million.   Moreover,
financing for the construction of an 890-km railroad in Northern Brazil is
included in the Carajas Iron Ore Project.  For the port subsector, the Bank
made one loan in 1971 (US$45 million). A summary of Bank assistance to the
transport sector is presented in Annex 2.
2.07         The Bank's strategy for transport would emphasize support to
efficient resource use in the sector, as well as support to other important
objectives  such  as  export  growth,  agricultural  development,   energy
conservation  and  improvement  of  public  sector  management.    It  would
contribute to financial rehabilitation and toward the establishment of an
appropriate policy and institutional framework for the commercially orientel
operation of public enterprises, and to rationalizing the operations of the
Government agencies and the implementation of cost-recovery policies in the
sector. It would support measures and policies aimed at providing adequate
price signals to the private sector, at promoting operational efficiency, and
at strengthening the planning and management capabilities of   the public
entities. It would help to focus public expenditure upon rehabilitation and
maintenance and upon cost-effective projects which generate quick returns,
particularly foreign exchange earnings and/or savings. Emphasis would be put
upon facilitating agricultural and manufactured exports, particularly by
improving the efficiency of the export corridors, and upon supporting
agricultural development by ensuring adequate transport conditions in the
already developed rural areap and by opening new areas with good agricultural
potential to settlements with due regard to environmental considerations.
D.   Transport it. the State of Sao Paulo
(i) Economic Context
2.08         The State of Sao Paulo plays a prominent role in the national
economy, accounting for about 40% of Brazil's GDP. Per capita income is more
than twice the national average, but is highly concentrated in Greater Sao
Paulo, which also accounts for almost 50% of the State population.  Services
constitute the dominant activity, employing about 50% of the labor force,
followed by industry with 40%, and by agriculture with some 10%.  The economy
is  highly  diversified,  and  the  State  has  contributed  significantly to
Brazil's recent trade performance.  In 1984, State exports amounted to about
US$11 billion, or some 40% of the total for Brazil; 77% of these exports, in
value, were processed or semi-processed goods, and the balance primary
commodities.    The  growth  of high-value  manufactured  exports  led  to an



- 6 -
increasing demand for good quality road transport services, particullarly in
the trade corridors linking the main production centers with the seaports.
2.09       The transport contribution to State GDP accounts for a 3.2% share
of the total.   Transport demand for freight has been determined by the
overall trend for state GDP; it grew at 6.5% p.a. between 1975 and 1980, when
GDP was growing at 7.2% p.a., and it is estimated to have stabilized
thereafter until 1983, while GDP decreased by an average 3.4% p.a.   Inland
freight transport is dominated by roads (73%), followed by railways (21%) and
pipelinea (6%) (Table 2.4).   Road transport also accounts for some 96% of
total passenger movements, with buses, used predominantly by the low income
population, sharing some 54% of total demand. In 1985, and in line with the
recovery of the Brazilian economy initiated in 1984, inland freight demand is
estimated to have recovered to some 2% above its 1980 level.  In the short
term, there is enough transport capacity to accommodate this volume of
demand. However, in the medium term, the sustainability of the present pace
of economic growth would lead to increasing claims on the State's transport
system; improved operating efficiency and selected investment in capacity
expansion, for roads in particular, would therefore most liltely be required.
(ii) Infrastructure and Operations
2.10      The State of Sao Paulo has a well developed basic transport system.
The primary road network comprises about 18,000 km of highly trafficked paved
roads, of which 8% constitute the motorway system, and a further 1,800 km of
unpaved roads.   The primary network falls mostly under State jurisdiction
since only 1,100 km of the paved roads are under Federal responsibility. The
primary road network is further complemented by some 175,000 km of mostly
unpaved municipal roads (Table 2.5).   According to the findings of a road
condition survey conducted in early 1986, over 3,300 km of the paved state
network are in poor condition, requiring urgent rehabilitation or pavement
strengthening.   The remaining length of the paved network would require
periodic maintenance at an estimated rate of about 10% per annum
(Table 2.6). Furthermore, about 50% of the 1,800 km of unpaved roads carry
levels of traffic for which paved surface would be warranted within the next
two to four years.    Increase in capacity,  either  through  provision  of
climbing lanes or by duplicating existing two-lane roads, would also be
required for an estimated 400 km of roads.
2.11          The State transport system also comprises some 6,000 km of
railways, of which 64% are meter gauge and the remainder 1.6 m gauge.  The
majority of the railway subsystem falls under State jurisdiction, with just
16% of the total extension under Federa  responsibility.  The subsystem under
State jurisdiction has, in general, sufficient track capacity, but it is
seriously hampered by low operating efficiency.  The inland waterway system
currently comprises some 900 km of navigable stretches in the Tiete-Parana
rivers, but its expanded role would have to be assessed in an intermodal
context, with emphasis on river/rail interfaces.   The rehabilitation and
improvement of the operating efficiency of the State railways and the
economic role of intenmodal transport are currently being assessed in the
context of the preparation of the proposed Bank-assisted Second Sao Paulo
State Railways Project.   Port traffic is dominated by the Port of Santos,
under Federal jurisdiction, which is served adequately by road and railway
connections.   The small Port of Sao Sebastiao, under State operation, is



- 7 -
basically limited to the handling of a small volume of steel exports.  The
pipeline network, of about 1,400 km extension, is used exclusively to move
liquid fuels mostly between the Port of Santos and the Petrobras refineries.
Twenty-three airports in the iaterior of Sao Paulo constitute the regional
airport system under State responsibility, which complements three major
airports under Federal jurisdiction.
(iii) Transport Management
2.12        Transport management in the State of Sao Paulo falls under the
Secretariat of Transport (ST), which has the overall responsibility for
sector policy formulation, for the development and maintenance of transport
infrastructure  and  for  transport  operations.    Similariy  to the Federal
structure, subsector management responsibilities at the State level are
delegated to autonomous agencies (Chart 1).  Road transport falls primarily
under the Roads Department of Sao Paulo State (DER-SP), port and inland
waterways under the Department of Waterways (DH), and regional aviation under
the Department of Aviation for the State (DAESP).   Several enterprises, in
which the State is the single or major shareholder, .eport to ST, including:
FEPASA, which is the State Railway Company; VASP, which is the second major
domestic airline; and the Highway Development Corporation (DERSA), which is
in charge of the operation of some 200 km of the toll-motorway system. ST is
directly assisted in its coordinating functions by several advisory units,
including one in charge of transport policy and planning and another in
charge of program implementation and monitoring.    The latter, with the
support of the Sector Planning Office   of ST, directly coordinates  the
preparation of the yearly and multi-yearly budgets for all sector agencies,
which are submitted by August of each year to the State Government, through
the Secretariat of Planning (SEP).  The consolidated State budget proposals
are then forwarded to the Legislative Assembiy in September for discussion
and approval before December of each year.
2.13       The organization of ST emphasizes a flexible structure, staffed oy
a small number of highly qualified professionals mostly in charge of
decision-making and of short-term followup of sector development. In support
of the decision-making process, ST makes frequent use of outside consultants
under long-term contracts, both with the private sector and with public
sector agencies, including the National Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT)
and the Sao Paulo Institute of Technology of the State Secretariat of
Industry and Commerce. The existing institutional setup works satisfactorily
and provides for effective sector coordination, while preserving a convenient
autonomy for the subsector agencies.
2.14      The main development objective pursued by ST in the second half of
the 1980s is to reduce total transport costs by fostering a more balanced
allocation of demand to alternate transport modes, following their economic
role.  In support of this aim, sector strategy emphasizes the improvement of
the operational efficiency of each transport mode and the formulation of
pricing  policies  reflecting  variable  costs  of use.    In  the  past,  the
distribution of traffic between road and rail transport has been somewhat
distorted, largely because of inadequate rail tariffs and low diesel oil
prices.  However, with increased rail tariff u and adjustment to diesel oil
prices, there is no major distortion in the uistribution of rail and road
traffic at the present. Since a considerable decrease in resources available



- 8 -
to the sector during the economic recession prevented an adequate asset
preservation, the first priority is assigned to the rehabilitation of
essential  land  transport  facilities.    These  priorities  are  adequately
convemplated  in  the  State  Transport  program.  which  emphasizes  the
rehabilitation of the main road and railway networks targeted at reducing
operating costs for existing traffic and extending the useful life of the
corresponding infrastructure.   In addition, the investment planning process
is to be strengthened through the updating of the sector information system
and a broadened use of economic evaluation techniques.   Although revenues
raised through taxation levied on users of the State highway network cover
DER-SP operating expenditures (Table 2,7), ST would undertake studies to
assist in determining adequate levels for toll charging, and for setting the
motor vehicle registration tax, which recently became a State prerogative.
In addition, ST's monitoring capability on rcad transport services would be
improved through a review of the operational and administrative aspects
affecting truck and bus transport in the State.   The above outlined sector
manag*ment strategy represents the logical followup at the State level to the
transport policy framework recommended by the Federal Government in the NDP.
The implementation of ST's sector strategy would be supported under the
proposed project, through its technical assistance component (para 3.10 and
Annex 5).
(iv) Highway Administration
2.15      DER-SP is responsible for State highway administration.  It employs
about  14,000  people,  including  about  900  professional  staff.           The
organizational  structure  of  DER-SP  (Chart  2)  consists  of  three  main
directorates--Administration,  Operations  and  Technical  Services--and  13
Regional Divisions  under  the Office  of  the  Superintendent.    Under  the
Regional Divisions, there are 84 Residencias--54 for routine maintenance
operations by force account and 30 for suApervision of contracted works,
including  road  rehabilitation,  periodic  pavement  maintenance  and  new
construction.
2.16       Although DER-SP has adequate experience in highway administration,
a recent review carried out by the Secretariat of Transport has identified
several   deficiencies   in   DER-SP's   operations,   requiring   policy  and
institutional changes in order to improve and expand DER-SP's managerial and
administrative capabilities. One of the first requirements is to restructure
DER-SP's present organization to enable it to address the majoc areas of
deficiencies, which include:  (a) highway planning; (b) routine maintenance
operations; (c) staff training; (d) equipment administration; (e) enforcement
of axle-loading and vehicle weight regulations; and (f) roai research. These
critical areas are discussed in the following paragraphs, while DER-SP's
organizational structure, its functional responsibilities and the recent
trends for its development are outlined in greatet detail in Annex 3.
2.17          Institutional Aspeets.   A new  regulation for DER-SP  which
authorizes the reorganization of che upper structure of the Department was
approved by the State Governor in January 1987.  The new regulation provides
for five directorates instead of the present three as a first step toward
correcting some of the deficiencies referred to in the preceding paragraph,
including the inadequate organizational and admin'strative support for
highway planning, staff training, control cf transport operations and road



- 9 -
research.   Tlhe new structure (Chart 3) also includes an Advisory Council,
allowing the private sectors to be involved in the formulation of road
transport  policies,  regulations  and  operational  practices;  a  Deputy
Superintendent position to relieve the Superintendent of some of his
administrative duties.   The institutional reform, being initiated with the
reorganization of the upper structure of DER-SP, would gradually be extended
to the whole organization.  This would be assisted by a management study to
be carried out in two phases. Phase I is already in prugress, primarily to
prepare immediate followup measures to the upper structure organizational
change, and Phase II of the study is scheduled to commence in mid-1987, under
the  technical  assistance  component  of  the3  project,  to  review  the
institutional and administrative requirements at the intermediate and
mid-level of DER-SP (para 3.10 and Annex 5).   During negotiations, it was
agreed that DER-SP would consult with the Bank regarding organizational
changes and the proposed actions resulting from the recommendations of the
Phase I management study.
2.18       Highway Planning.   Although economic evaluation has been carried
out, on a case-by-case basis, for new constructions, duplication of existing
roads, and provision of third (climbing) lanes, DER-SP has not applied a
consistent methodology for ranking projects to guide investment decisions.
Under the new institutional arrangement, DER-SP would extend its capacity to
adopt a systematic planning process for the selection of projects, based upon
economic criteria, for inclusion in its investment programs (para 2.26). The
selection of new roads for capacity expansion would be determined by
standard planning practices based upon traffic, origin and destination and
corridor capacity surveys, followed by economic analysis.  The selection of
roads for highway rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and paving programs
would be facilitated by the development and implementation of the Pavement
Management System (PMS) under the technical assistance component of the
project (para 3.10 and Annex 5). The annual and pluriannual rehabilitation
and paving programs, optimized in terms of economic benefits and financial
constraints, would  be  prepared  through  the operation of the PMS.   The
programs would be based upon periodic inventory of the network, estimation of
pavement performance and assessment of the appropriate strategy and timing
for the various investment options. Until DER-SP fully develops its in-house
planning capability, it would carry out the planning functions with the
assistance of consultants.
2.19      Routine Maintenance.  The extent and quality of routine maintenance
declined significantly during the early 1980s as a result of inadequate
funding, lack of effective management, low level of equipment availability
and utilization and low labor productivity.   From 1986 onward, funds for
routine maintenance are being increased, which makes it imperative for DER-SP
to introduce policies and administrative measures to increase the efficiency
of maintenance operations.   The two major decisions already taken in this
respect are:   (a) the development of a comprehensive routine maintenance
management  system  (SAC)  for  force  account  operations;  and  (b)  the
introduction of routine maintenance by contract with the objective of
operating a well balancee, dual-mode routine maintenance system to achieve
greater flexibility and efficiency.   The details of these measures were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and were considered appropriate for
improving DER-SP's routine maintenance operations.  During negotiations, it



- 10 -
was agreed that DER-SP would assess the impact of the various measures being
introduced to routine maintenance operations and submit a report to the Bank
on its findings, by December 31, 1988, with an outline of DER-SP's intended
future policies on routine maintenance, for comments.
2.20      Staff Trainir.g.  The planning and coordination of DER-SP's training
activity is being carried out by the Recruitment and Personnel Development
Unit within the Directorate of Administration.   The unit, with constrained
staff and financial resources, has been able to conduct only a limited number
of training courses and semiuars annually, involving only a small proportion
of DER-SP's staff.  It is the firm policy of DER-SP to strengthen training
administration, extend its staff training activities significantly and
establish an institutional mechanism for continuous staff training programs
at all levels of the Department.   To assist DER-SP in achieving these
objectives, a training Drogram has been included in the proposed project
(para 3.07).
2.21       Equipment Management.  DER-SP's fleet comprises about 3,000 units
of equipment, of which about 25 is in poor condition requiring extensive
repair or rehabilitation.   Because of budgetary constrairts, there has been
only limited replenishment of the equipment fleet over the last four to five
years. To meet its immediate equipment needs for routine maintenance, DER-SP
embarked upon an equipment rehabilitation program which would be assisted
under the proposed project (para 3.06).   A review of DER-SP's equipment
administration by Bank missions also revealed that, while there is a system
of procedures, it is not being applied consistently, nor is it comprehensive
enough to be used as an effective management tool (para 12 of Annex 3).  In
light of this finding, DER-SP's equipe*nt administration system would be
reviewed under the technical assistance component of the proposed project
(para 3.10 and Annex 5).
2.22        Enforcement of Axle-load Regulations.   Axle-loading and vehicle
weights are regulated by the National Transport Code. These regulations have
not been enforced in the State of Sao Paulo over many years, and it was only
in 1985 that DER-SP started introducing appropriate controls.  According to
DER-SP's program, by the end of 1987, 18 weigh bridge stations and ten mobile
weigh bridges would be in operation.   It was agreed at negotiations that
DER-SP would  evaluate  the  impact  of  the measures  being  introduced  for
controlling axle-loading and vehicle weights and would consult with the Bank,
by December 31, 1988, regarding further actions planned for the program's
development.
2.23       Road Research.  Although some research activity has been carried
out by DER-SP in the past, it has no adequate institutional framework to
carry out research activities to keep up with current technological trends.
In the new organizational structure, a Research Unit would gradually be built
up in the Engineering Directorate to coordinate all research-related
activities.   Provision has also been. made under the technical assistance
component of the project to finance research studies and research equipment
having relevance to the maintenance and development of the State road network
(para 3.10 and Annex 5).



- 11 -
(v) DER-SP's Expenditure and Funding Program (1987-1990)
2.24         DER-SP's highway investmen; and maintenance program reflects a
strategy which supports sector objectives by adequately emphasizing the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the primary highway network and the selective
expansion of road capacity. The program would amount to a combined constant
US$1.3 billion throughout the 1987-1990 period, of which 33% would be
allocated to rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, 27% to routine
maintenance, 12% to feeder road development, 11% to highway capacity
expansion, 8% to paving, 7% to equipment and studies, and 2% to new road
construction  (Table  2.8).    DER-SP's  planned  road  expenditures  reflect
identified 1.nfrastructure requirements and are reasonably balanced.   The
rehabilitation and maintenance components targeted at minimizing road costs,
by reducing vehicle operating costs and extending the useful life of the
existing network, would yield an ERR estimated at 45% (para 3.14 and
Annex 6).   The capacity expansion component, aimed at removing congestion
bottlenecks for existing traffic, would yield an ERR of 25%. This component
has been evaluated by ST with the assistance of a spatially disaggregated
Input/Output model for the state economy, initially financed by the Bank
under Loan 1171-BR, which includes modal-split and capacity-restraint
submodels. A switch-off type of analysis was carried out, on a sample basis,
by DER-SP for the paving component, and the proposed level of investment
would yield an ERR of above 12%; this component would support improved
farm-to-market access and the decentralization of industrial location.   For
the yet unprepared new construction component, including feeder roads,
amounting to less than 14% of the total highway investment and maintenance
program, DER-SP would systematically use economic appraisal criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, before deciding on specific investment proposals
(para 2.26); these investments would be targeted at agricultural production
growth and improved  delivery of social  services.    DER-SP's  pluriannual
highway program has been prepared for a scenario of economic development
consiste,nt with the 6-7% growth rate for GDP, targeted for the Brazilian
economy  in  the  NDP.    Projections  for  demand-allocation  to alternative
transport modes also take into consideration pricing policies covering
variable costs of use for each mode, and the improvement in the level of
service resulting from the proposed investments.
2.25      DER-SP's programed investment and maintenance expenditure level for
the 1987-1990 period would represent a real 80% increase over the 1983-1986
period, mostly accounted for by the increase in the rehabilitation and
peribdic and routine maintenance budgets.   As a result, some 60% of the
1987-1990 program would correspond to rehabilitation and maintenance, as
compared to some 50% in the 1983-1986.period.  The above incieases reflect
the considerable backlog of high priority investments, particularly for road
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, arising from the dramatic squeeze in
highway funds registered throughout the 1981-1984 recessionary period. As of
1984, DER-SP's rehabilitation and periodic maintenance budget was more than
50% below its 1980 level, while routine maintenance expenditures were some
402 below their value in 1980.  Overall, from 1984 onward, DER-SP's total
investment and maintenance expenditure level started recovering, and its
projected annual average for the 1987-1990 period would be in line with its
1986 approved value.



- 12 -
2.26        DER-SP's 1987-1990 expenditure program would be funded through a
combination of sources, dominated by the State budget (56%), followed by
Federal transfers (26%), foreign credit (11%) and own revenues (7%)
(Table 2.8).   To match the increased expenditure level programed for the
1987-1990 period with respect to the 1983-1986 period, DER-SP's total funding
requirements would increase by about 70%, which is reasonable in view of the
foreseeable evolution of each source of funding. Of that increase, 37% would
be provided for by the State Treasury; its contribution would increase at an
annual rate in line with the growth rate projected for the State GDP,
starting from a 1987 basis which would be below the 1986 approved value.
Federal transfers would account for 34% of the projected increase in funding
requirements, reflecting the 1985 fiscal reform which provided for additional
levels of road-user taxes to be earmarked directly to the States (para 6 of
Annex 1).  Credit operations, dominated by disbursements under the proposed
Bank loan, would provide a further 22% of the incremental financ±ing
requirements, while own funds, mostly tolls, would provide for the remaining
7%.  Toll revenues would grow in line with traffic growth, but toll tariff
levels would be reviewed in view of the recommendations of the State road
pricing study to be carried out under the proposed project (para 3.10 and
Annex 5). During negotiations, it was agreed that DER-SP would periodically
review its highway expenditure and funding program to assure that it conforms
to policies and economic criteria catisfactory to the Bank, present it to the
Bank not later than August 15 of each year, and regularly provide funding for
the program, including adequate counterpart funding for the Bank-financed
components, through the rolling three-year State budget programing process.
III, THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Objective
3.01      The shortage of funding for road works during the first half of the
1980s, combined with the low efficiency of road maintenance operations, led
to an accelerated deterioration of the Sao Paulo State road network. In late
1984, the State Government expressed interest in seeking Bank support for its
effort to restore the condition of the network over the 1987-1990 period.
Following the review by the Bank of a State Transport policy brief, which
indicated investment priorities and directives for institutional improvements
for DER-SP, a project identification mission of the Bank visited Sao Paulo in
October 1985 and agreed with the State Government on a schedule for project
preparation. The scope of the proposed project was formulated with the vain
objective of oroviding support to the Sao Paulo State to significantly
improve the condition of the road infrastructure over a four-year period and
to further develop the highway administration system to assure that the
State's dominant road transport mode would function with increased efficiency
in terms of transport cost and time savings.   The proposed project would
achieve these objectives by supporting;   (a) the road rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance component of DER-SP's 1987-1990 expenditure program;
and (b) policies and measures to increase the capability of ST and DER-SP to
plan, evaluate and implement the transport program of the State more
effectively than at present.   The proposed project comprises:   (a) civil



- 13 -
works for the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of about 5,100 km of
State roads and associated consultant services for engineering design and
construction supervision; (b) equipment rehabilitation; (c) a training
program; and (d) technical assistance for studies related to State transport
sector policv, planning and operations, and highway management and research.
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.02       The Bank lending strategy for Brazil is based upon an intensive
policy dialogue through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and
sector work arc being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. Most
of the loans to Brazil aim at supporting one or more of the three key
Government  objectives:    (a)  structural  reforms  in  agriculture  and  the
management of the public sector; (b) rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure; and (c) an increase in productivity, and the
improvement of living conditions, of the rural and urban poor. The proposed
project is in line with these objectives by providing continued assistance to
the rehabilitation and maintenance of important links of the country's road
network, simultaneously with the systematic strengthening of the highway
agency of the State of Sao Paulo. Although, through some earlier Bank loans
f:r highway projects, several states have also obtained a portion of Bank
funds for improving State roads and strengthening State road maintenance
management (para 2.06), this would be the first time that the Bank would be
more directly involved with a Brazilian State highway agency and support the
carrying out of a major State road rehabilitation and maintenance program and
institutional strengthening. The Bank's assistance is considered appropriate
and timely since the State economy of Sao Paulo contributes to some 40% of
Brazil's GDP and accounts for approximately the same share of the country's
total export revenues.  Thus, the improvement of the condition of the road
infrastructure would contribute to the efficient functioning of the growing
and diversified State economy.  Also, considering that the State's arterial
road network is predominately under the jurisdiction of the State Government,
the State of Sao Paulo has not benefited as much from earlier Bank loans for
Federal highway improvements as have other states having a much larger
portion of roads under Federal control. Furthermore, the Bank's involvement
with the Roads Department of Sao Paulo State would provide an opportunity for
the Bank to assist in the development of improved highway management
practices so that such practices could be introduced to state and municipal
road authorities in other Brazilian states.  Such transfer of experience is
in line with the Bank-supported fiscal and dministrative decentralization
efforts initiated by the new Federal Administration. It also coincides with
the overall highway subsector study to be implemented under the technical
assistance component of the proposed project, targeted at coordinating the
efforts of the Federal, State and Municipal agencies in the management of the
road infrastructure under their respective jurisdictions (para 3.10 and
Annex 5).



- 14 -
C.   Project Components
(i) Highway Rehabilitation
3.03            D%R-SP1s  program  for  highway  rehabilitation  and  periodic
maintenance (pavement overlay and resurfacing) during 1987-1990 represents
8,300 km, of which about 5,100 km would be financed under the proposed
project (Table 3.1).   Based upon the results of a road condition survey
conducted in early 1986, an economic evaluation model has been developed to
define an optimal investment strategy for the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance of roads, minimizing road transport costs at a given level of
budget availability  (para  3.14).    Engineering  design has  already  been
completed for the first group of subprojects (Group I roads), comprising
734 km (Table 3.2).   Subprojects for the second group (Group II roads,
875 km) have also been identified, based upon economic priorities
(Table 3.3). The economic evaluation, engineering, bidding process and civil
works for subsequent groups of subprojects have been scheduled to meet the
four-year target of 5,100 km for the project (para 4.05).
3.04          Group I and Group II roads include important radial routes
converging  on  Sao  Paulo  which  carry  substantial  commercial  traffic
(Map IBRD 19794).  While the geometric alignments of these major arterials
are satisfactory, some of the pavement surfaces are more than 15 years old
and are showing a high degree of deterioration.  The other road sections in
these two groups are more dispersed geographically and, in general, function
as secondary links in the network, but they still carry substantial volumes
of traffic on pavements in poor condition. In addition to asphaltic overlay,
most roads would also require pavement strengthening over critical sections
as well as shoulder and drainage improvements to alleviate the future rate of
pavement deterioration.   Since the civil works cover the rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance of existing roads, the environment would not be
adversely affected by the project, and drainage improvements included in the
works would be beneficial from an environmental viewpoint.
3.05        The engineering design for the road sections selected would be
undertaken partly by the regional divisions of DER-SP and partly by
consultants.    DER-SP's  regional  divisions  have  competent  staff  with  a
capacity to undertake about 50% of the design work envisaged for the portion
of the four-year program to be financed under the proposed project.
Supervision of works would be the responsibility of DER-SP through its
Regional Divisions  and  Residencias.    DER-SP  supervision  teams would be
strengthened as required by technical personnel recruited through consulting
firms.
(ii) Equipment Rehabilitation
3.06       Following a condition survey of the equipment and vehicle fleet,
DER-SP commenced an equipment rehabilitation program in 1985 to supplement
the aging fleet for the support of routine maintenance operations (para 11 of
Annex 3). A major difficulty has arisen with the rehabilitation of imported
units of equipment for which spare parts are not available in the country,
and DER-SP has not been able to secure foreign exchange for the purchase of
the spares required.   The procurement of spares has been includad in the



- 15 -
project for financing from the proposed loan.   The rehabilitation of the
units would be undertaken by private workshops with DER-SP's own funds.
(iii) Training Program
3.07      The training component has been formulated with the main objective
of implementing a four-year staff training program to upgrade the skills of
about 390 professionals, 1,800 subprofessionals, 1,200 equipment operators,
and 900 mechanics through a broad range of training activities. Although the
training programs would be developed for all areas of DER-SP, particular
emphasis would be given to road-maintenance-related training, including the
training of an estimated 2,000 municipal personnel.
3.08           Financing would  be provided under the proposed  loan for:
(a)   training   facilities   including  buildings,   building  improvements,
furnishings and training aids; (b) preparation and conducting of training
courses, including programs for productive training; (c) specific courses to
be conducted by selected foreign experts and training abroad of DER-SP staff
under fellowships; and (d) consultant services (68 man-months) to assist
DER-SP in the planning and implementation of the training program.   The
consultant services are scheduled to commence in May 1987.  Details of the
training program are presented in Annex 4.
3.09      As an institutional measure, in support of the program, the present
central training unit would be transferred from the Administration Division
to the new Directorate of Planning under the already approved reorganization
of DER-SP,  and upgraded  to Division level.   The staff strength of the
division would be built up gradually based upon the initial assessment of
needs by the training consultant and the recommendation of the Phase II
management study, financed under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project.   DER-SP has established a Training Steering Committee to
provide policy guidelines for the training program.   During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the terms of reference for the services of the
training consultant and the implementation schedule for the training program.
(iv) Technical Assistance
3.10        The technical assistance component of the proposed project was
formulated to support the policy and institution-building-oriented objectives
of ST and DER-SP through the carrying out of studies and administrative
system developments and improvements.   The project would finance technical
assistance in the following areas: State transport sector policy, transport
planning and operations,  and highway management.    The scope, man-month
requirements, estimated cost and implementation schedule for the studies
included in the technical assistance are shown in Annex 5.   DER-SP has
recently established a Pavement Management Steering Committee and an
Equipment Management Steering Committee to provide policy guidance and
coordination for the development of these systems.   During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the terms of reference and the implementation
schedule for the studies included in the technical assistance.



- 16 -
D.   Project Cost and Financing
3.11       The cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$405.65 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$174.40 million, based upon
October 1986 prices and including physical and price contingencies, as shown
in the table on the next page. The proposed loan of US$174.00 million would
finance 50% of the total project cost, net of identifiable taxes and duties
and the cost of goods under reserved procurement, estimated at US$57.33
million and US$0.32 million, respectively.  The base cost of the project of
US$340.21 million equivalent represents about 20% of DER-SP's 1987-1990
expenditure program.   The cost estimates  for the highway rehabilitation
program are based upon DER-SP's and the appraisal mission's assessment of
cost for the type of works envisaged under the program, supported by the
engineering estimates for representative detailed designs and recent contract
prices. The cost of spare parts for the equipment rehabilitation program is
based upon recent quotations by suppliers.   The costs of the training and
technical assistance components were estimated in accordance with prevailing
costs of materials and services.   The estimated man-month rates for local
consultants varied between US$4,000 and US$6,500 and, for expatriate
consultants, between US$10,000 and US$12,000, in accordance with the
qualifications and experience required.
3.12       The foreign exchange component of the highway rehabilitation works
was estimated at 44%, based upon the analysis of construction cost components
(material, equipment, overheads, profits and tax). These works are equipment
intensive and require substantial quantities of fuel and asphalt, of which
Brazil is a net importer.   The foreign exchange cost component of local
consulting eservices is estimated at 25%, which was adjusted appropriately
when foreign experts were expected to be part of the team.  Spare parts for
equipment resiabilitation, and some equipment for road research, would be
imported. The foreign exchange cost of the elements of the training program
was estimated item by item, as indicated in Table 4 of Annex 4.
E.   Economic Justification
3.13      The proposed project would assist in funding selected components of
DER-SP's 1987-1990 expenditure program.  Bank involvement would be targeted
at achieving an expanded highway expenditure level, required in view of the
foreseeable traffic growth associated with the favorable prospects for the
Brazilian economy and the backlog of high priority investments resulting from
the severe scarcity in highway funds throughout the 1981-1983 adjustment
effort.    Moreover,  Bank  financing would  ensure  a balanced expenditure
program, with adequate priority for the preservation of existing road assets
and for the strengthening of sector and subsector institutions, at the
managerial, operating and working levels.
3.14       The economic evaluation of the proposed project has been carried
out in two stages.   In a first phase, DER-SP's road rehabilitation and
maintenance program was analyzed in an aggregated way for the State paved
road network as a whole, in order to select the desirable capital expenditure
strategy, throughout the analysis period.  This strategy would minimize the
total life-cycle costs to society, including the costs to the road users as
well as the costs borne by the highway authority, under budget constraints.



- 17 -
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
FEC       Bank
Local   Foreign   Total    %    Participation    %
US$ Million --------       
I.  H&ghway Rehabilitation
(a) Civil Works                 174.70   137.26   311.96   44          129.58       42
(b) Detailed Engineering          4.68      1.56     6.24   25           2.58       42
(c) Construction Supervision    7.02        2.34     9.36   25           3.95       42
Subtotal              186.40   141.16   327.56   42          136.11       42
II. Equipment Rehabilitation
(a) Spare Parts and Labor         1.40      2.10      3.50   60          2.10       60
III.  Training Program
(a) Training Facilities           0.26      0.10     0.36   27           0.31       85
(b) Training Equipment            0.15      0.10     0.25   40           0.21       85
(c) Training Courses              3.12      0.52      3.64   14          3.10       85
(d) Consultant Services,
Fellowships                 0.32     0.74      1.06   70          0.90       85
Subtotal                3.85      1.46      5.31   27          4.52       85
IV. Technical Assistance
(a) Transport Policy               .34      0.13     0.47   27            .40       85
(b) Transport Planning
and Operations              1.10     0.51      1.61   32           1.37      85
(c) Highway Management            1.23      0.53      1.76   30          1.50       85
Subtotal                2.67      1.17      3.84   30          3.27       85
Base Cost (October 1986         194.32   145.89   340.21   43          146.00       43
Prices)
Physical Contingencies 1/        17.61    13.94    31.55                13.17
Price Contingencies 2/ -         19.32    14.57    33.89                14.83
TOTAL PROJECT COST:             231.25   174.40   405.65 3/            174.00
1/  10% of Items I (a) and II (a)
2t  Price increases, for both local and foreign costs, were calculated, over the
standard profile disbursement period of eight years, at 3.0% for 1987, 1.0% for
1988 to 1990 and 3.5% for 1991 to 1994.
3/  Identifiable taxes and duties, and reserved procurement are about US$57.65 million
equivalent, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$348.0 million
equivalent.



- 18 -
Economic evaluation of the resulting rehabilitation and maintenance program,
corresponding to 96% of total project base cost, yields an estimated ERR of
about 45%.   The high return obtained indichttes the economic priority of
DER-SP's maintenance and rehabilitation program, which emphasizes periodic
and preventive maintenance elements.   The program has been prepared by
consultants working uuder the supervision of DER-SP, based upon a gene-al
road condition survey and with the assistance of the Bank-developed Highway
Design and  Maintenance  Model,  Release  III  (HDM-III).    The  methodology
employed  is  further detailed  in Annex  6,  and  r sults  of  the economic
evaluation are available in the Project File (Annex 8).
3.15          The second stage of the economic  analysis  relates  to the
identification and evaluation of each specific group of road rehabilitation
subprojects to be financed under the project. A first and a second group of
roads were selected, comprising subprojects having pavement conditions and
traffic levels for which some form of rehabilitation was recommended in the
first stage of economic analysis (Annex 6).   A detailed pavement condition
survey and engineering design was then carried out for the first group, and a
refined economic analysis, reflecting final engineering costs and revised
traffic projections, was obtained using HDM-III.   The consolidated ERR for
the first group of roads was estimated at 47%, in line with the economic
return for DER-SP's rehabilitation program, thus confirming the priority and
timeliness of the proposed investments (Table 3.4).   Economic analysis of
subsequent subprojects would be carried out by DER-SP following the
methodology used during appraisal (para 4.03).
F.   Project Risk
3.16      There are no major risks affecting the proposed project.  The ERR,
based upon quantifiable benefits corresponding to 96% of the total project
base cost, is satisfactory. For the subprojects constituting the first group
of roads, the ERR would still be above 12% even if an escalation of more than
100% would occur in project costs or a decrease of up to 80% in project
benefits.   There  may  be  some  uncertainty  regarding  the  implementation
capability ot DER-SP since the proposed project is the first operation with
this executing agency. However, during project preparation, DER-SP showed a
considerable capability to undertake the required preparatory tasks, and it
also has extensive contract administration and supervision experience.
Moreover, associations with Bank staff up to appraisal has ensured the
necessary understanding of, and shown DER-SP's commitment to, the objectives
of Bank involvement.   Another source of uncertainty, in view of past Bank
experience in Brazil, relates to restrictions in counterpart funding
availability, which would delay disbursements and the completion of the
overall rehabilitation program.   However,  the proposed loan is the only
direct source of foreign financing in DER-SP's funding program, and the
required counterpart funds, excluding contingencies, would amount to just
some 44Z of DER-SP's earmarked transfers from the Federal Government.



- 19 -
IV.  PROJECT EXECUTION
A.   Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation
4.01       Subprojects of a total length of about 1,600 km, comprising the
Group I and Group II roads, have already been selected for the highway
rehabilitation program based upon the assessment of the early 1986 road
condition survey of the State road network and the economic criteria
established for subproject priorities (para 3.14).   Subsequent subprojects
for highway rehabilitation would also be selected according to economic
priorities consistent with the optimal maintenance strategies to be
determined from time to time at network level, using PMS and the methodology
for evaluation as outlined in Annex 6.
4.02          Following  the identification of highway segments  requiring
rehabilitation, overlay or surface treatment in accordance with the procedure
outlined in the preceding paragraph, DER-SP, for initiating engineering
design, would prepare for each such segment (subproject) a technical and
economic data sheet, including information on the rationale for selection,
road condition and traffic data, recommended engineering solution, estimated
cost, the result of preliminary economic evaluation and a proposed schedule
for implementation. The recommended engineering solution would be consistent
with the policy selected for the analysis of the road rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance program as a whole, including the timing of investment
for corresponding range v4 traffic and road condition characteristics.   A
data sheet (Table 4.1) would be prepared by DER-SP containing pertinent
information for each subproject, and its assessment by the Bank would be the
basis of the Bank's concurrence to the undertaking of engineering design for
a subproject.
4.03         After completion of detailed engineering,  a refined economic
analysis reflecting specific traffic projections and final cost estimates, an
updated data sheet would be submitted to the Bank to provide the basis for
the Bank's concurrence to the inclusion of a subproject in DER-SP's highway
rehabilitation program for implementation and financing under the project.
During negotiations, it was agreed that DER-SP would follow procedures
acceptable to the Bank for subproject selection and evaluation using criteria
consistent with its maintenance and rehabilitation strategy and that in no
case would a road section with an estimated ERR below 12% ie included in the
highway rehabilitation component of the project.
B.   Project Implementation and Monitoring
4.04        The reorganization of DER-SP's upper management structure was
approved by the State Governor in January 1987, and the  implementation of
the project would be the responsibility of DER-SP through its various
directorates in the reorganized structure. The Planning Directorate would be
responsible for overall project coordination and monitoring and for the
training program, through its Training Division.   The Planning Directorate
would also be in charge of the preparation and supervision of the various
studies to be carried out under the technical assistance component of the
project.  The Directorate would maintain close liaison with the Secretariat



- 20 -
of Transport regarding the State transport sector related studies.   The
responsibilities for the highway rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
works would be shared among the Engineering Directorate, Operations
Directorate and the Regional Divisions.  The Engineering Directorate would
also be responsible for administering the equipment rehabilitation, equipment
administration review and highway research programs.
4.05      The proposed project is scheduled to be implemented in four years.
Concerning the road rehabilitation component for Group I roads, detailed
engineering has been completed, bids are scheduled to be called in February
1987, and contracts awarded in April 1987.  Engineering design for Group II
roads commenced in November 1986.  Subsequent groups of subprojects would
undergo the selection, evaluation, design and contracting process according
to a schedule (Table 4.2) to assure the meeting of the annual targets for the
rehabilitation program indicated in Table 3.1.   Tte procurement of spare
parts under the equipment rehabilitation component would commence in April
1987 and be completed in a year.  The consultant services for the training
program are scheduled to commence in May 1987 and be completed in April 1989
as detailed in Table I of Annex 4.  The training program would also commence
in May 1987 and be completed by the end of 1990.  The studies under the
technical assistance component of the proposed project are scheduled to
commence in April 1987 and be completed at various times according to the
length of studies indicated in Table 1 of Annex 5.  The implementation
schedule for the proj.ict is shown in Table 4.2.
4.06      The implementation of the various elements of the project would be
monitored through quarterly progress reports which would be prepared under
the direction of the Planning Directorate of DER-SP, in a format satisfactory
to the Bank, and through at least two semi-annual meetings between
representatives of DER-SP and the Bank (Annex 7).  During negotiations, it
was agreed that DER-SP would provide information, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, for project monitoring purposes.
C.   Procurement and Consultant Services
4.07      Procurement under the project would be as follows:
Proeurnat Uthodj/
Project Elmnt         IO          LC8        Othe        cost
CivilI Wwo-                               US$ NI II Ion  - -
Higha  RPahbllltstion   149.1        224.6        -         374.45
( 62.33)    (93.50)                l155.8)
Traling Facilties         -            .39        -           .39
(.34)                  I.34)
Equlpent
Spare Part for Equlpnt                          4.20        4.20
(2.52)2/    (2.52)
Equlpuat for Tralning                            O.27 /      0.27
(0.2)      (0.23)
Equlpmnt for Rexearch                            0.08 4/     0.09
(0.06),     (0.08)
TraIning ad Tochnlcal Assistance                  26.25       2625
(15S.00)    ( 15.00)
TtaWls         (tIp         i)         t(.i)t)
r,mmanta In paronth*. cho the allocantion. Iran the proceede ot the loan.
/ Intratlonal hohpping.
Off-the-eei local purche e.
7/Intantianal eheppIng ind ot t-th-h.It local purehaco.



- 21 -
4.08       The value of contracts under the rehabilitation component of the
project would normally vary between US$2.0 and US$5.0 million. Contractors,
however, according to their bidding capacity, would be able to submit bids
for more than one contract in a bid package.  Even under such arrangements,
it was considered unlikely that, unless the sections of roads in a bid
package were in close proximity and lent themselves to being combined into a
larger contract package exceeding US$10 million, foreign firms would be
interested in participating in the bidding.  Therefore, for contracts which
could possibly be packaged to exceed US$10 million, international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures would be followed in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement (May 1985), covering an estimated 40X of the rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance works. For more isolated, geographically dispersed
road sections, civil works contracts, up to US$10 million, would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB).   There is a sufficient
number of experienced Brazilian contractors, and LCB procedures should
achieve meaningful competition. Nevertheless, foreign firms would be allowed
to participate in LCB. LCB procedures of DEd-SP, including prequalifications
and advertisement, have been reviewed by the Bank appraisal mission, and,
according to the understanding reached with DER-SP, procedures and bid
documentation have been amended to meet Bank requirements.
4.09      International shopping would be followed for the purchase of spare
parts for the equipment rehabilitation program and for imported equipment and
instruments which might be required for road research. LCB procedures would
be followed for physical training facilities (buildings).    Miscellaneous
goods for the training program and road research under iocal purchase in
packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent could b, purchased off-the-shelf
on the basis of at least three price quotations subject to an aggregate total
of US$360,000.
4.10          All coutracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more and all contracts for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$3.5 million or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of bidding documentation or price quotations in a coverage of about
75X of the total estimated value of goods and works contracts. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random ex-post review by the Bank after
contract awards.
4.11       Consultants for supervision of civil works, detailed engineering,
the training program and the various studies under the technical assistance
would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981).  The local consulting industry is experienced to
carry out most of the tasks involved, particularly the relatively routine
tasks of engineering design and construction supervision.   Although the
consultant selection process will be open to foreign firms, it is more likely
that foreign specialists, as individuals, would be contracted through local
firms for some of the services for which local consultants would not have
sufficient experience.
D.   Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
4.12      Within the 50% level of cost sharing, the Bank would disburse:
(a) 42% for the highway rehabilitation program; (b) 85% for components



- 22 -
associated with the training program and the technical assistance; (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures for spare parts for the equipment rehabilitation
program, and highway research related equipment; and (d) 100% of foreign
expenditures for expatriate  consultant  and  staff  training  abroad.   The
allocation of loan proceeds for the various loan categories is shown in
Table 4.3.
4.13       Retroactive financing will be provided for expenCitures incurred
after November 1, 1986 but before the date of loan signature, up to a total
of US$15.0 million, for civil works and associated consultant services,
purchase of spare parts, and for consultant services under the technical
assistance and training component.
4.14       In order to reduce the interval during which DER-SP would finance
the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special Account
in US dollars would be established in the Central Bank of Brazil to cover
local currency expenditures.   The amount deposited in the Special Account
could be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project
execution, but would not exceed US$11,0 million. DER-SP would be entitled to
make periodic withdrawals  from the Special Account at the exzhange rate
applicable on the day upon which each payment for eligible local expenditures
is made.  Foreign exchange expenditures incurred would also be made from a
separate Special Account which would be established in a commercial bank
abroad with an  nnitial deposit of US$1.0 million.  The Bank would replenish
both Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible
expenditures  at  the  request  of  the  Borrower.    To  ensure  consistent
availability of counterpart funds, a Project Revolving Account in Brazilian
Cruzados would be established in a local commercial bank. The Borrower would
make available to DER-SP, in the Project Revolving Account, an amount
equivalent to US$8.0 million as a condition for loan effectiveness.  During
negotiations, it was agreud that the Borrower would ensure the availability
of sufficient funds in the Project Revolving Account for project costs during
the forthcoming months, according to work and procurement schedules. DER-SP
has adequate accounting control to enable disbursements to be made on the
basis of Statements  of Expenditures.    Supporting documentation would be
retained by DER-SP, would be available for inspec_ion during project
supervision missions, and would be subject to auditing by DER-SP's external
auditors, with respect to expenditures against contracts valued at up to
US$3,500,000 equivalent for civil works and US$100,000 equivalent for goods.
Expenditures for contracts above these limits would be documented.
4.15       Based upon experience with bimilar projects as reflected in the
relevant standard profile, the implementation period for this project is
estimated at eight years (Table 4.4).   It is, however, possible that the
project would be executed more efficiently and completed an estimated two and
a half  years earlier.    In such circumstances,  the price  contingencies
indicated in the Project Cost Estimates and Financing table (page 17) and,
consequently, the overall cort of the project would be reduced from US$405.65
million to US$392.0 million.  In this case, the loan amount required would
decrease from US$174.0 million to US$167.15 million.
4.16      Regarding the Bank's requirement on auditing, it was agreed during
negotiations that DER-SP accounts, including the project accounts, f,nancial
statements, Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures, would be audited



- 23 -
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports for
each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within four months of the
closing date of the audited period.
V.  AGRES RAC     AND REC            ATIOR
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was raached with the Borrower on the
following:
(a) DER-SP would consult with the Bank regarding organizational changes
and the proposed actions resulting froe the recommendations of
Phase 1 of the management study (para 2.17);
(b) DER-SP would assess the impact of the various measures being
introduced to routine maintenance operations anc submit a report to
the Bank on its findings, by December 31, 1988, with an outline of
DER-SP's intended future policies on routine maintenance, for
comments (para 2.19);
(c) DER-SP would evaluate the impact of the measures being introduced
for controlling axle-loading and vehicle weights and would consult
with the Bank, by December 31, 1988, regarding further actions
planned for the program's development (para 2.22);
(d) DER-SP would periodically review its highway expenditure and
funding program to assure that it conforms to policies and economic
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, present it to the Bank not later
than August 15 of each year, and regularly provide funding for the
program,   including   adequate   counterpart   funding   for   the
Bank-financed components, through the rolling three-year State
budget programing process (para 2.26);
(e) terms of reference and implementation schedule for the training
program and the studies included in the technical assistance
(paras 3.09 and 3.10);
(f) DER-SP would follow procedures acceptable to the Bank for
subproject selection and evaluation using criteria consistent with
its maintenance and rehabilitation strategy, and in no case would a
road section with an estimated ERR below 12% be included in the
highway rehabilitation component of the project (para 4.03);
(g) DER-SP would provide information, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, for project monitoring purposes (para 4.06);
(h) the Borrower would ensure the availability of sufficient funds in
the Project Revolving Account for project costs during the
forthcoming months, according to work and procurement schedules
(para 4.14); and



- 24 -
(i) DER-SP accounts, including project accounts, financial statements,
Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures, would be-audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and audit reports for
each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within four
months of the closing date of the audited period (para 4.i6).
5.02          Making available to DER-SP by the Borrower,  in the Project
Revolving Account, an amount equivalent to US18.0 million would be a
condition for loan effectiveness (para 4.14).
5.03         Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank Loan of US$174.0 million. The terms would be 15 years with
a three-year grace period.
January 20, 1987



BRAZIL
STATE "6IHWTS        _n3ii  FIP JWT - SA   WAU0
(Leagli 11 ha)
tur *1do                                                                          thAI                                      thAt g  T
PgVed    Ihgd   theaa tbl  Total              d     t_ret                  TlPdd   Comsrctlo   Ttal                           |         Ped   _COtrctie    Toabl
'Mt-u,          2,5219    O.31.9        912.3   13.1 12,03.4    662.3             461.5   11,232  8I .4 D. 937.             -      21,"74.7 1 S,.7       3,093.5   1t45.1      4,104.0
jmtbest         17,.0S0.5    6,31.3    1,413.4   2,03.2  16.31.7   ),196.8       1,365.1   40,2.6    "4.5   34,300.s         -    30,005.0        -     MO,7SJ   4,r)*5    3O,3tA
iseitw"t        17,3M.6    S,M9.        S12.0   D23M2  I        A118,6  12116.7  109.4   31,64.9  2,676.6   415,414.6      67   419,16.9  361,540    484I0 9   2,1911    474,363.
flosS          11.30.7    3,139.3       6.9   15,556.9   9,7n5.5    8,70.9        641.1   1,M345.s 15 04J   2|29 S          -    295,70A   22,2M.5   DK0.7   IM.G    M.6Mi2
lContraMbet     9,213.11    %M.l      ls 142.S t6#627.1   4,4W0.4 3M,5.9        &42cmi    61.0  140,900 9                   - tJ60 40.9  1.49,6199   112,607.9   3*515.3    2w,.
51,739.2   29,36.2    5%37.1   92,94.5 S 51,799.    65,724.6    7,719.9  145,2.3  ( ,s165.5  tS,82        a6.7  2,m,74SJ jI15n4J  t1l,315.6  13,46.7  1,460,M4.1
U At  000 km of hdorel readW ae mAtr  ashlaltratlle .f so dttd.
July 1986



BRAZIL
STATK HIGHWAYS KANAGh1I PROJECT - SAO PAuLo
National Nadal Traffic Shares (1980-1985)
1980         1981          1982           1983         1984            1985
Passengers             433,B49      451,724       470,670        488,755       508,247            n.a.
(millions of passenger-km)
Highways               410,357      426,771       443,800        461,552       480,000            n.a.
Railways                12,376       13,132         13,265        13,797        15,415            n.a.
Aviation                 9,559        9,973         10,789        iO,569        10,014            n.a.
Underground Rail         1,519         1,785         2,738         2,837         2,818            n.a.
Marine (Inland)             38            63            78          n.a.          n.a.            n.a.
Passengers (X)             100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0          100.0         n.a.
Highways                    94.6         94.5           94.3          94.5          94.5          n.a.
Railways                     2.8           2.9           2.8           2.8            3.0         n.a.
Aviation                      2.2          2.2           2.3            2.2           2.0         n.a.
Underground Rail              0.4          0.4           0.6           0.5            0.5         n.s.
Marine (Inland)              -             -             -            n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Freight                351,611      338,714        353,095       354,867       391,517       413,778
(millions of ton-km)
Highways               208,500      204,700        212,500       215,200       219,100       227,800
Railways                86,342       79,448        78,022         74,966        92,421       100,813
Maritne (Coastal
and Inland)           43,820       42,437        50,158         51,712        63,774        67,600
Pipelines               11,929       11,079         11,029        11,825        15,071         16,276
Aviation                 1,020         1,050         1,206         1,164          1,151         1,289
Freight (X)                100.0         100.0         100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0
Highway                     59.3         60.4           60.2          60.7           56.0          55.1
Railways                    24.5          23.5          22.1          21.1          23.6           24.4                w
Marine (Coastal
and Inland)               12.5          12.5          14.2          14.6           16.2          16.3
Pipeline                      3.4          3.3           3.2           3.3            3.9           3.9
Aviation                     0.3           0.3           0.3           0.3            0.3           0.3
Source:  GEIPwr, Anuirto Estatisttco dos Transportes, 1985; estimates for 1985
October 1986



- 27 -                          TABLE 2.3
UAZIL
STATE SIIAS             'IPROWECT -SAG PAULO
Federal Iuwvtmts in the Tr _sort Sector
(is illion Cz$, at June 1986 price, 1/)
Shipping and
Year    Highways   Railways   Ports    Shipbuilding    Others        Total
1976     10,075      18,394    2,400         7,200        6,878     44,947
1977      9,418     12,778    1,906         6,504         4,709     35,315
1978      7,435     10,507    2,827         6,792         4,766     32,327
1979     10,555     14,491    2,890         6,984         3,202     38,122
1980      8,813     11,458    2,362         7,843         1,968     32,444
1981      7,982      9,619    1,714         7,483         2,213     29,011
1982      6,994      7,978    3,859         6,422         4,042     29,295
1983      5,741      8,424    2,357         6,562         4,387     27,471
1984      4,915      4,080    1,464         9,427         4,330     24,216
1985      n..        n.a.      n.a.         n.a.          n.ea.      n.a.
1/  Converted to Cz$ based upon the value of ths ORTN/OTN-
Source:  Ministry of Transport
October 1986



- 28 -                             TABLE 2.4
BRAZIL
SSATE EIVAys               PROJW     - SAO PAULO
Tr*Msport Demand for Frel8ht in the State of Sao Paulo
(in billions of ton-in)
1975                 1980                1985
Ton-Km      %        Ton-Km        X      Ton-Km        %
Highways             54,200      80       70,500        76     69,200      73
Railways              8,800       13      17,000        18     19,700      21
Pipelines             4,700        7       5,100         6      6,000       6
Total            67,700     100       92,600       100     94,900    100
Source:  State Secretariat of Transport (estimates)
October 1986



29 -                              TABLE 2.5
EIL
STA I UIOMAYS UAI*OUI    RWWCT - SAO PFLO
Sao P alo State ftad twotrk (1986)
L  E  N  G  T  H   (KM)
J U R I S D I C T I O N                                                 EARTH
TYPE         PAVED      BEING PAVED        OR           TOTAL
GRAVEL
-,,     ____
S                            2 lanes      15,458          630             1,814       17,902
D  E  R          4 lanes         834           45                 _          879
T                            6 lan_s          65             -                -           65
Total      16,357          675            1,814       18,846 1/
A     _               _   ,  _
3 lanes 2/       17            -                _            17
T                            4 lanes         229            35                _          264
D E R S A         6 lanes          128            -                _          128
E                            8 lanes          43             -                _           43
Total         417           35                _          452
2 lanes         732            _                _          732
F E D E R A L  (DNER)       4 lanes         351            -                 -          351
8 lanes           S            -                -             5
Total       1,088            -                -        1,088
M U N I C I P A L         2 lanes       2,113 3/    1,485 4/        171,527      175,12.
1, Corresponds to 19,855 km two-lane, equivalent length.
/  Third lane with reversible traffic flow.
3/ Of which 595 km is IBRD/BNDES-financed.
4/ Of which 1,080 km is IBRD/BNDES-financed.
Source: DER-SP
October 1986



STATE NemmS ininWW  F T  - S   PASULO
PMmstI CaNIi til SWwfV (JS.V 1*11)
f t~ ~~emf lltl        Ille)  t
TWO   LANE   ROADS                                      F O U R   L A N E   R O A D S   (D I V I   E D)Y
AD? _I        r AD        AW AT                                  Arr DAr                             aT           ADT
SURFACE    CONDITION   (0-7O6)   (700-ISO)  (O15003000)  (3000-4500)  (4500-6000)  6000<  (0-6000)  (6000-9000)   (9000-12000)  i20M<  TOTAL
GOOD       4SS.3       750.2        996.6          4S9.4        173.6       59.5      97.7       219.7           12.6        16.3   3,240.9
ASPH1T           __                       _         _                                     
REASHA  L   481.5       987.8      I.711.3          657.8        353.5      127.0    173.3        2S2.0          312.3        79.4   5,135.9    0
CONCRETE       _                                -_
POOR       147.4       421.7        571.6          159.9         82.9       26.3    160.4        228.4           53.3         -     1.851.9
GOOD       406.7       524.7        101.0            0.6          -          -         -           -              -           -     1,041.0
SURFACE                         __                                                         - .             _           _   -
IECULAR     826.3     1,014.3        259.8           32.8         35.0        4.7                           - _    _           _     2,172.9
TaEAINKN?
POOR      683.4        521.1        181.4            _-                                                                             1,463.4
TOTAL                 3,00.6    4,219.8        3,821.7        1,396.0        65.0       217.5     431.4       700.1          376.2        95.7  14.90.0 
/  Average Oaily Traffic
21   Length Is shown In too-lane equlvalent
3/   Shbrt (2-4 km) access roads to municipalilties and roads under ongoing works were not Included In the survey.                                       o
Source:  DER-SP
October 1986



- 31 -                                TABLE 2,7
BRAZIL
STATE BIGUAYS rPRI jCr - SAO PMJW
3@eeue froa Tames levied on State load-Veers
and DU-?  z--indlturet *19SO-19S5)
(In dillion C$,' at June 1'98 prices8
1980      1981      1982     1983      1984     1985
Revenues
Fuel Tax (IUCLG)               403        256      248       165       134      132
Motor Vehicle
Registration Tax (TRU)      1,293        951      892       733      498       437
Road Transport
Tax (ISTR)                     244        227       232      191       173      182
Tolls                          225        162       202      120       127      164
Other Fuel Charges 1/        1,909      1,622    1,619    1,409    1,349    1,108
Total Revenues               4,074      3,218    3,193    2,618    2,281    2,023
_   _N =- _M                    __                  _
DER-SP Expenditures
Operating 2/                 2,086      1,643    1,468    1,278    1,30',   1,733
Others 3/                    2,237      1,964    1,526       894      623    1,095
Debt Service                   311        216       146      127       107      225
Total Expenditures           4,634      3,8.3    3,140    2,299    2,036    3,053
1/  Several para-fiscal charges, raised to fund various Federal Government
Programs.
2,  Including rehabilitation, periodic and routine maintenance and an estimated
related proportion of studies, equipment and administrative expenditures.
3/  Including new construction, capacity expansion, paving and an estimated
related proportion of studies, equipment and administrative expenditures.
Source: GEIPOT and DER-SP
October 1986



- 32 -
TABLE 2.8
STATE NI1S ai _              lJE t - SOPAILO
&MWV of W-Sp EmEtue N, wigs  U19)
(in CZ S ml I I I on at OCtober 19i   r I ces)
APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                 1980     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985      1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
Capit                                              2j540    1853    13            675       22    1.451    3.879    3.175    3.558   .3467    3 439
Constructlon/Paving                             1,807    1,497       944       489      260       324      755       503    1,174    1,166    1,016
Now roads                                    1,177    1,195       601       340      230       128       65       58        20       12       159
Oupilcation                                    490       164      205       32         7       113      506      165       207      326        to
Third Strip                                      0         0        0        0         0       34        65      108       360      177       373
Paving                                         140       138      138       116       24       50       119      172       587      581      206
RehabilItation and Perlodic Maintenance           557       251      200       117      227      554    1,042    '.'4'    i,663    1,678    1,647
8uiidlngs and Yards                                37        13        4         1        0         0        0        14       29       10        20
Etquilnt RehabilItation                            91        13        2         3       73       29        50       75        54      100      400
Feeder network                                      2        48      220        64      160      536    2,000    1,377         80      460       326
Studlis. Projects and Tranilng                     47        32       16        0         2        9        32       65       358       53       30
Recurrent                                          1130    1 041        920       798      655       808   10St9    1 042    1_139    1.305    1.541
Routine Maintennce, Roads                       ' 0'8      891       775      662       550      675       924      844       895      948    ; 005
Personnel                                      753      665       603      488       398      448       633      677      718       761      806
Other                                          265      227       172       174      153      227       291      167       177      I88      199
Poutine IMalntenance, Expresavays                  78       106       98       68        46        56       70       93        99      104       III
Pernne                                          34       39        37 1               22       27        33       36       38        40       43
Other                                           44       68        61       37        25       29        37       57       60        64       68
Routine MaintenOnce  Municil Roads                 34        43        8        43       35        38       54       49        52       55        58
Personnel                                       12        16       27       23        17       t8        27       29       31        33       35
otner                                           22       27        21       20        18       20        27       20       zt        22       24
Road police                                         0         0        0        25       23        38       51       26        28       29       31
Contracted Routine Maintenance                      0         0        0         0        0         0        0       30       66       168      336
Adelnistration                                       652       713      688       700      552      569    1 197       969    1 027    1 085      i 1.156
Debt Service                                         311       216      146       127      107      225       289      239       241      154       68
TOTAL                                           4,634    3,823    3,140    2,299    2,036    3,053    6,464    5,425    5 765    6,011    6,204
SOURCES OF FUNOS
State's Treasury                                   2.082    2.475    1          1 353   'L312    2.349    4.575    2.804    3.260    3.421    3.61
Federal Transtfrs                                  1 709      .o022     975      715       404      385    1.237    1.380    1.461    1.54       1.642
IUCLG (FRN)                                       836      422       291      23d       124      122      250       265      280      297       315
IPVA (TRU)                                        873      479       550      404       255      223      800       848      898      952    1,009
IST (ISTR)                                          0       55        67       58        24       34       178      258      273      289       307
1.11                                                0       67        67       i5         0        7        9         9       10        tO       11
Credits                                              383        20       93        25       81       63       275      842      621       594      446
18RD (Proosed)                                      ° 0           0        0         0             0        0       358      621      54        446
Other                                             383        20       93       25        81       63       275      484        0         0        0
Own Roceipts                                         461       306      387       206      239      257       3"       599       425      448      475
Tol Is                                            226       162      202       121      127      164       180      190      202       214      227
Other                                             235       144     l1S        85       112       92       197      209      221       234      248
TOTAL                                           4,634    3,823    3,140    2,299    2,036    3,053    6,464    5,425    5,765    6,011    6,204
Sources OER-SP
October 1986



BRAZIL
STAlE N16HI4YS  MA    wITPFOJET - SD PAULO
Hlshay Ahabi i talon PFrora (1987-1990)
(at Octbr 1986 prices)
1987                  1988                  1989                  1990                 Total
km    USS mllton    km    USSmMII Ion    km    USS mIIIon    km    USS eilon    b km    USS oflilon
Total    2,400         2.78     2,400        2.78      2,340       1.88      1,900       0.82      9,040      8.26
ENGINEERING
DESICN         DER-SP       650         0.28       650        0.28      1,470       0.64      1,900       0.82      4,670      2.02
Project   1,750         2.50      1,750       2.50        870        1.24       -            -      4,370      6.24
Total    1,570        77.51     2,130      114,30      2,180     116.17      2,420      115.04     8,300    423.02
CIVIL WORKS       DER-SP      700        24.48        600      20.72        650      22.57      1,250      43.29      3,200    111.06
ProJect     870        53.03      1,530      93.58      1,530      93.60      1,170       71.75     5,100    311.96
Total    1,570         2.39      2,130       3.43      2,180       3.54      2,420       3.49      8,300      12.85
CONSTRUCTION
SUPERVISION       DER-SP      700         0.80        600       0.62        650       0.73      1,250        1.34     3,200      3.49
Project     870         1.59      1,530       2.81      1,530       2.81      1,170       2.15      5,100      9.36
Total                 82.68                120.51                121.59                119.35               444.13
TOTAL         DER-SP                  25.56                 21.62                 23.94                 45.45                116.57
Project                57.12                 98.89                 97.65                 73.90               327.56
Source:  DER-SP
October 1986



- 34 -                            TABLE 3.2
STATE NIGOWAYS KARA1DYRIT PR(JECT - SAO PAULO
Highuy". hbabiltatioa Program
GROUP I ROADS
Road           (Section)           Len th         Cost/km       Total Cost
(km/km)()                         (US$/km)    (US$ million)
SP 280         78.0-128.0         2 x 50.0 1/        75,480         7.548
SP 280         128.0-209.0        2 x 79.4 11        75,478        11.986
SP 280         209.0-244.0        2 x 35.0 /         75,471         5.283
SP 280         244.0-315.0        2 x 71.0 1J        79,550        11.296
SP 300         425.0-442.5            17.5           51,771         0.906
SP 300         444.7-466.9            22,2           49,549         1.100
SP 300         551.5-576.2            24.7           44,534         1.100
SP 300         576.2-597.0            20.8           44,423         0.924
SP 270         280.4-325.8            45.4           27,533         1.250
SP 310         381.6-427.6            46.0           79,366         3.651
SP 330         268.0-308.0        2 x 43.3 1/        65,623         5.683
Total:  (two-lave equivalent)    734.0 km             69,110        50.727
1/ Four-lane divided sections.
Source:  DEk-SP
October 1986



- 35 -                                  TABLE 3.3
STATE BIGUAS            I  P  JCT - SAO PAW
Elghiiny kbabi&litation Pro8tam
GROUP II ROADS
ADT     X Of Commercial                Estimated
Road      Section                      1985        Vehicles       Cost/kma      Cost
(km/ku   (km)(US$)   (US$ million)
SP 75/55  0.0/11.0            11.0      13,776          25%          103,000        1.13
SP 099    0.0/64.9           64.9        6,857          25%           65,000       4.22
SP 127    1.0/32.0           31.0        49363          50%           81,000        2.51
SP 127    159.0/215.0        56.0        3,923          50%          65,000         3.64
SP 191    11.6/45.3          33.7        3,087          35%           35,700        1.20
SP 255    80.5/124.0         43.5        4,100          65%          45,000         1.96
SP 270    9.8/24.6       2 x 14.8 I/   26,123           20%           60,000        1.78
SP 270    46.0/104.0         58.0        3,431          30X          62,000        3.60
SP 270    493.3/563.0        69.7        2,418          60%           56,000       3.90
SP 270    569.0/654.7        85.7        3,616          40%           55,000       4.71
SP 300    64.0/78.0           14.0       4,450          302           70,000       0.98
SP 310    216.0/293.0   2 x 77.0 1/    8,261            50%           69,000      10.63
SP 310    154.0/216.0   2 x 62.0 1/   13,334            50%           60,000       7.44
SP 332    133.0/146.0        13.0        4,275          50%           84,000        1.09
SP 330    154.0/167.4   2 x 13.4 1/   13,943            50%           64,000        1.72
SP 340    168.0/172.0   2 x  4.0 1/    8,553            50%           64,000       0.52
SP 340    172.0/207.0        35.0        8,553          50%           70,000       2.45
SP 344    207.0/224.0        17.0        4,738          40%           35,000       0.6V
Total:
(two-laIe equivalent)  874.9 km                                     62,635       54.08
1/ Four-lane divided sections.
Source: DER-SP
October 1986



RZIL
STATE HI16HYS _WMtGBIT FRDJBT - SAO PAULO
PasUlts of Ecoamic Analysis: MIgM   ihabilltatla,,   oup   I  eaods
(traffic In veuicle units and cost in thosama1d of C adas at Octber 1986 prices)
Average Annual Dai ly Traftic - 1985                                 Economic Rate of Return (S)
Link                       -                                                                 ECOICIIC I/
Road          Section         Code     Length   Passenger                 Medium      Heavy          Truck                   COSTS      Bose    Benefits    Costs
(ki)      (km)                 (bn)     Cars        Buses      Trucks      Trucks      Combinations      Total                 Case      -20%       +20%
SP 280       78.0- 128.0      cool       50.0       3,263         343          343      1,260           515         5,724   107.945         61       55         56
SP 280      128.0 -  78.0     Co01       50.0       3,263         343         343       1,260           515         5,724   107,945         61       55         56
SP 280     128.0- 209.0       CB02       79.4       2,302         329         376       1,174           517         4,698   171,479         60       54         55
SP 280     209.0 - 128.0      (802       79.4       2.302         329         376       1,174           517         4,698   171,479         60       54         55
SP 280     209.0 -244.0       CB03       35.0       1,292         172         230         833           345         2,872    75,589         34       30         31
SP 280     244.0- 209.0       C803       35.0       1,292         172         230         833           345         2,872    75,589         34       30         51
SP 280     244.0 - 279.8      CB04       35.8       1,083         145          193        699           289         2,409    82,149         34       29         30
SP 280     279.8 - 244.0      CB04       35.8       1,083         145         193         699           289         2,409    82,149         34       29         30      6
SP 280     313,6 - 315.0      C804        1.4       1,083         145         195         699           289         2,409    82,149         34       29         30      a
SP 280     279.8 - 315.0    C(05          3.5       1,083         145          193        699           289         2,409      8,193        62       54         55      g
SP 280     315.0 - 279.8      C805        3.3       1,083         145          193        699           289         2,409      8,193        62       54         55
SP 280     279.8- 315.0       C806       31,2       1,083         145          193        699           289         2,409    71,277         34       30         30
SP 280     315.0 - 279.8      C806       31.2       1,083         145          93         699           289         2,409    71,277         34       30         30
SP 300     425.0 - 442.5      MROI       14.5       2,144         141         316         652           281         3,514    10,276         46        39        41
SP 300     425,0 - 442.5      NR05        3.0       2,144         141         316         632           281         3,514      2,688        47       40         43
SP 300     444.7 - 466.9      MR02       22.2       1,811         145         326       1,159           181         3,622    15,733         43       37         36
SP 270     280.4 - 295.4      R701       15.0       1,063         101         236         236            51          1.687     5,909        67       57         59
SP 270     295.4 -325.8       RTO2       30.4       1,063         lot         236         236            5           1,687    11,978        27       23         24
SP 330     268.0 - 290.0      A4O       22.0       1,833         180         288         865           451         3,595    43,665         39       33         34
SP 330     290.0- 268.0       AJOI       22.0       1,833         180         288         863           431         3,595    43,665         39       53         34
SP 330     308.0 - 290.0    AM02         18.0       2,186        252          378         882           504         4,202    28,467         71       64         65
SP 330     290.0- 308.0       AN02       18.0       2,186        252          378         882           504         4,202    28,467         71       64         65
SP/330       0.0 -   3.3      AN03        6.6       2,590        299          448       1,046           598         4,981      9,178       45        37         39
SP 310     381.6- 383.0       WLOI        1.4         953         125         501         701          225          2,505      2,329        36       32         52
SP 310     383.0 - 381.6      WLOI        1.4         953         125         501         701          225          2,505      2,329        36       32         32
SP 310     385.8 - 427.0      WL02       43.2       3,737        200        1,001       1,402           334         6,674    49,903        42        36         37
SP 300     551.5 - 576.2    1R03         24.7       2,046        415          415         129           129         3,134    15,734        44        39         40
SP 300     576.2 - 597.0    #R04         20.8       1,426        333          356         118            72         2,305    13,220         30       26         26
-~  734.0                                                       Me1bited awra. by lInvetimmat:  47           42 4_            r
Including engineering design, supervision, and physical contingencies.                                                                                             W
Source:  DER-SP
October 1986



- 37 -                          TABLE 4.1
Page I of 2
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAYS WANAGEHENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
Subiroiect Data Sheet
1.  Subprojects Group No.:                                    Initial
Final    l    l
2. Basic Data:
Highway     No.:            Section:              Length:
Pavement    Width:          Type:                 Condition: (general
description)
Shoulder    Width:          Type:                 Condition:  (general
description)
Drainage:  (general description)
Surface Condition Parameters: (typical or range)
(a) roughness; (b) average deflection; (c) cracking; (d) rutting
3. Traffic (Year)
Trucks
Cars      Buses          Light     Medium    Heavy         Trailers
Annual Growth (last year)       %
Annual Growth (next 10 years) %
4. Vehicle Operating Cost: (Cz$/km; year)
Trucks
Cars      Buses          Light     Medium    Heavy         Trailers



- 38 -                           TABLE 4.1
Page 2 of 2
5. Alternati e Engineering Solutions Considered (pavement, shoulders.
drainage)
(a)
(b)
(c)
6. Estimated Cost (Cz$),:
Financial             Economic
For alternatives:
(a)
(b)
(c)
7. Economic Indicators:
For each alternative:
ERR: (Base Case, +20% cost, -20% Benefits)
Net Present Value
First Year Benefit Cost Ratio
8. Recommendation and Comments
9. Processing Schedule
Source: DER-SP and Bank staff
October 1986



s"wN mws   -   FUI  - M vu
ymw*! ~ktmbubm ft%A
I~~~                                               .    ,                                                                        _________________
t                    1         1~~      ~      ~      ~~~      ~~986  too?    1981                   ISl                    1990
Project C<pawat
I  1AI,1AIL.10101   |FL        IIA1lS|O A     J TF+6AEJ   ISI          F      [J|JJA|SO     J H+61,1|A
7  EngINsrngola   LX                                                                                                                                I __   rep1 
I                               |     ocipioted                          '    I                       I                      1 [
I                               I                      I    te plSI                                                          I                      I
a re"  V                V
I                      1                      1                      |ro~I                  I Y
Wksam                  I           I                      I           1                                                                    I
Contruction S"per-vlulz     l                                                  t
I                               I                                  I                   I                                     I''                    I 
J                       I                      I                      I         GPI11                                I                      1 
I          I                     ~~~~ ~~I *1 vI2                                                        I
0"0 IV ~  ~     I 
casultat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               Sep SevIts Z
| Training Pgp|                                                               I                                                                     I
t ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~           _      _ C1bx   ______   1  1                                                      1   .   
| T|"l  A"l   3/           ll                           lll|"
I/ Tim tt2 iaths) sleectt d mkee *11on   fort emle evluationandthe biddlt89 Proms.
T/ OtXl led to Tablb 2 of Amx 4.
ii oot$ 1   in rab It Amex s.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Sost .E1F5-W sod sppnlsal miAsaI
Oete ir t#C



- 4o -
TABLE 4.3
BIAZIL
Sf1TA   HGWYS MAMAGEN          PROJECT - SAO PALO
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             Z of
Expressed in          Expenditures
Loan Category                            Dollar Equivalent          Financed
(i)  Works
(a)  Highway Rehabilitation          129,580,000         42%
(b)  Training Facilities                 310,000         85S
(ii)  Equipment
(a)  Spare Parts                       2,100,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Training Equipment                  210,000         852
(c) Equipment For
Road Research                      70,000         100X of foreign,
85% of local
expenditures
(iii) Consultant Services
(a)  Engineering Design                2,580,000         422
(b)  Construction Supervision          3,950,000         42%
(c)  Training Consultant                 542,000         1002 of foreign,
85% of local
expenditures
(d)  Technical Assistance              3,200,000         1002 of foreign,
852 of local
expenditures
(iv) Training
(a)  Training Courses                  3,100,000         852
(b)  Fellowships                         308,000         1002 of foreign,
852 of local
expenditures
(c)  External Specialists                 50,000         100% of foreign,
85% of local
expenditures
(v)  Unallocated                           2.,000,000
TOTAL:            174,000,000
Source: Appraisal mission
October 1986



- 41 -
TABLE 4.4
DM1I L
STAlE HItEYS IDWANSWi UEJWT - SA PALO
Schadule of Estimtid D1s11a9rseewts
(USiS WIIian)
Olebarsed In                   Cumulat Iv
FY and quarter ending                         OJ          FY               Olsbursents
1967
March 31  1967                              13.0O/                             13.0                 7
Juno 30  1967                                3.0         16.0                   16.0                9
1986
Septemer .10, 1987                            3.0                               19.0                11
December 31, 1987                             3.0                               22.0                13
March 31, 1988                               4.5                                26.5                is
June 30, 1968                                4.5         I5.0                   31.0                18
1969
September 30. 1986                            4.5                               35.5                20
Decmbe  513  1966                            4.5                                40.0                23
Msrc  31, 1989                                5.5                               45.5                26
Juno 30, 1989                                5.5         20.0                   51.0               29
1990
septmer 30, 1989                              5.5                               56.5                32
DOcember 31  1969                             5.5                               62.0                56
March 31, 1990                                7.0                               69.0                39
June 30. 1990                                 I.0        25.0                   76.0               44
199
Septber 30. 1990                              7.0                               83.0               48
Decemer 31. 1990                              7.0                               90.0                51
March 31, 1991                                 .5                               91.5                56
June 30  1991                                7.5         29.0                  105.0               60
1992
Septembr 30  1991                             7.5                              112.5                64
December 31, 1991                             7.5                              120.0                69
March 31, 1992                                6.5                              126.5                72
Jun  30, I992                                6.5         28.0                  133.0                16
199
September 30. 1992                            6.5                              139.5                80
DOcember 31, 1992                            6.5                               146.0                84
March 31, 193                                 5.0                              151.0                87
June 30. 1993                                5.0         23.0                  156.0               90
1994
September 30. 1993                            5.0                              161.0                92
DOcember 31, 193                              5.0                              166.0                95
March 31, 1994                                2.0                              168.0                96
June 30, 1994                                2.0         14.0                  170.0                98
I1s
Septeber 30, 1994                             2.0                              172.0                99
Oscamoer 31, 1994                             2.0         4.0                  174.0               100
Asut Ions;
Loan Signing: March 1987
Loan Effectiveness: may 1987
Project Copletlon:  Jun  50, 1994
Loan Closing Date:  Decembor 31  1994
i/ Including Initial deposit of US$12.0 million Into Special Account.
Source: Mission Estlimtos
October 1986



- 42 -                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
BRA=
STATI  HIGHWAYS NANh  RNT PROJECT
Road Transport Subsector Bacground
A,   Institutional Framework
1.        Responsibilities for the administration of the Brazilian transport
sector are split.   At the federal level, sector responsibility basically
falls under MT, with the exception of civil aviation, which is controlled by
the Ministry of Aviation. Subsector operations and planning are delegated to
autonomous agencies and to public or semi-public enterprises. Highways fall
under DNER, and inland and coastal shipping under the National Agency for
Merchant Navy (SUNAMAN).   Several federal enterprises also report to MT,
including:   the Federal Railway (RFFSA), which runs most of the country's
railways; the Brazilian Port Enterprise (PORTOBRAS), a holding company
controlling the ports; and the National Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT),
which is a transport consulting company providing services on request and
under  contract.    The  states  and  municipalities  also  share  important
responsibilities  in  sector  administration.    At  the  state  level,  the
Secretariats of Transport, responsible to the State Governors, overview
transport agencies and entities not falling under federal or municipal
jurisdictions.  These agencies mostly cover the management of the regional
road, aviation, port and inland waterway systems, but, in the case of the
State of Sao Paulo, the responsibilities under the Secretariat of Transport
(ST) are wider.   The municipalities are by and large entrusted with the
administration of local and urban road transport.
2.             Within the highway subsector,  the jurisdictional levels of
responsibility  interact  at  several  stages.    First,  the  formulation of
road-user charges policy is largely determined by the Federal Government
since it controls, through fuel pricing, the main source of fiscal revenue
raised on road users.   However, the responsibility for determining other
important road pricing mechanisms, Including the motor vehicle registration
tax and tolls,  rests with  the states.   Second,  MT is responsible for
channeling funds to road programs at the state and other levels which are
eligible for federal assistance. Third, some of the State Road Departments
(DERs) provide important technical and financial assistance to the
municipalities, particularly to the poorer ones which lack administrative
capacity of their own. And fourth, road transport is affected by regulations
determined and enforced at different administrative levels.  Interstate and
international bus transport is regulated by DNER, while intermunicipal bus
transport  rests with  the DERs.   The  interaction between the different
jurisdictional levels, and among themselves, would benefit from Improved
coordination, particularly in terms of road regulation, pricing policy and
maintenance management.   The recent initiative of the Association of State
Road Departments (ABDER) of undertaking, in close cooperation with GEIPOT, an
inventory of State road maintenance requirements represents an important step
in that direction.   In addition, ABDER is representing the states in their
dialogue with the federal entities, but this effort would have to be
broadened through a greater involvement of the Federal Government (para 6).



-43 -                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
B.   Motor Fuel Pricing and Consumption
3.        Brazil's energy strategy, in the transport sector, has emphasized a
fuel pricing policy targeted at catering opportunity costs while fostering
replacement of petroleum products by renewable domestic energy sources,
woenever economically and technically feasible,   In line with that policy,
dot stic retail prices of gasoholl/ and diesel-oil are well above the
corresponding international prices (Table 1 of tnis Annex), while hydrated
alcohol2/ has been fixed at 35. below the retail price of gasohol,
basicalTy to provide incentives to inter-fuel substitution, and to offset the
lower fuel efficiency of alcohol-powered vehicles, as compared to similar
gasohol-powered vehicles.   Moreover,  and since there is not a feasible
substitute for diesel-oil, its retail price has been kept below the retail
price of gasohol.   This strategy haa, been successful in reducing gasoline
demand, but diesel-oil consumption has continued to increase, leading to an
imbalance in the consumption profile of petroleum-based automotive fuels
(Table 2 of this Annex).   The Government has launched a major information
campaign to foster diesel-oil conservation in road transport, while the major
determinants for diesel-oil consumption are being assessed in a study
financed under the ongoing Federal Highway Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR).
Recommendations from this study, to be discussed with the Bank in early 1987,
would constitute an important contribution to the monitoring of domestic fuel
pricing policies by the Federal Government.
C.  Road-User Charges
4.             A complex system of road-user charges has been developed,
originally to fund road expenditures at the three levels of Government, and
also to fund energy-related programs and raise general revenue.   The main
charges include a combination of fuel taxes, a motor vehicle registration
tax, tolls and a road transport tax levied on inter-state and inter-municipal
freight and passenger movements.   Overall, revenues raised from these main
taxes, and levied upon users of the Federal and State highway networks, cover
the DNER and the DER-SP's operating expenditures, including road maintenance
and rehabilitation. A study carried out by GEIPOT under the Federal Highways
Sector Project allowed for the comparison of the costs imposed on roads by
each category of vehicle and of the associated revenues from taxes levied
upon users. Results of this study indicate that, if a 30X allowance is made
for pavement wear that is attributable to time and weathering, all vehicles
are at least charged for the associated routine and periodic maintenance
costs, in accordance with the agreement reached under the Sector Project.
Recent legislation approved by Congress has passed over to the States the
responsibility for fixing the motor vehicle registration tax. This, together
with tolls on State roads, would constitute important road pricing mechanisms
I/ Blend of 73 RON (Research Octane Number) gasoline with domestically
produced anhydrous biomass alcohiol, in a proportion of about 20%.
Vehicles using this blend are, in general, as fuel efficient as vehicles
using the higher grade gasoline it replaces.   No straight gasoline is
retailed in Brazil.
2/ 94% concentration of biomass alcohol straightly used in the powering of
Otto-cycle engines.



- 44 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
under State jurisdiction.   This matter will be addressed under the proposed
project, where provision is made for a pilot study to assist the State of Sao
Paulo in developing a pricing framework for the roads under its jurisdiction,
complementary to and consistent with the Federal user charges policy
(Annex 5).
D.   Highway Subsector Funding
5.             A complex system of road-user charges has been developed,
originally to fund road expenditures at the three levels of Government, and
also to fund energy-related programs and raise general revenue.  The main
charges include a combination of fuel taxes, a motor vehicle registration
tax, tolls and a road transport tax levied on interstate and intermunicipal
freight and passenger movements.  The proceeds of road-user taxation shared
among the Federal Government, the States and the Municipalities used to
constitute the highway agencies' major and most reliable source of revenue.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, however, a number of reforms, aimed mostly
at strengthening central control over public expenditures, were made in the
fiscal and funding systems. As a result, the earmarking of the federal share
of road-user tax proceeds for roads and other specific uses has been phased
out; also, the proceeds channeled to the States and Municipalities, which
remained earmarked, were drastically reduced.   The resulting shortfall in
funding has led the highway agencies to reduce their expenditure programs
significantly and, in some cases, has brought about a substantial increase in
borrowings. Moreover, the agencies' increasing reliance on less predictable
budgetary appropriations has negatively affected the programiLlg and execution
of works, including maintenance.
6.        However, legislation approved since 1984 has gradually inverted the
past trend for centralization in fiscal collection and allocation of revenues
for the highways subsector.  The share of one of the fuel taxes--the tax on
liquid   and  gaseous   fuels   (IUCLG)--transferred   to  the  States  and
Municipalities would gradually be increased to 60% from 1988 onward, from 44%
in 1984; of this share, almost 70% is allocated to the States and the
remainder to the Municipalities.   The Federal share of the IUCLG would be
earmarked to DNER through a National Road Fund created in 1986.   Starting
also in 1986, the motor vehicle registration tax would be fixed by each
State, and its proceeds shared with the Municipalities under its jurisdiction
on a 50% basis. Moreover, the share of the road transport tax transferred by
the 1ederation to the States has been increased from 20% to 50%, while a 20%
share has been directly allocated, for the first time, to the Municipalities;
proceeds of this tax may, however, be used at the convenience of the
beneficiaries outside the highways subsector.  Improved road funding to the
States and Municipalities would, however, need to be accompanied by programs
to strengthen local institutions and disseminate maintenance techniques to
ensure that the minimum maintenance requirements are met effectively.  This
would involve the formulation of a strategy which would clarify the role of
the  different  levels  of  Government  in  providing  assistance  to  the
decentralized  agencies  under  their  jurisdiction.    Under  the  technical
assistance component of the proposed project, provision is made for a study
to address this matter (Annex 5).



- 45 -                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
E.   Freight and Passenger Transport
7.          The trucking industry is reasonably efficient, with the average
load factors above 60%, which is higher than in most Cono Sur countries.
Average truck net capacity is above 8 tons, although the fleet is getting
progressively old with 72% of the vehicles above six years old (Table 3 of
this Annex).   Road freight transport is basically unregulated.  Entry into
the industry and provision of services are free of Government control.  The
Federal Government is currently emphasizing safety regulations and better
enforcement of vehicle and trucking registration. Although such action might
lead to some form of regulation in the future, the Goverrnment is aware of the
benefits of keeping a competitive trucking industry.
8.               Passenger  transport  regulation  comprises  controls on bus
configuration, and on service frequency, capacity and tariffs. Allocation of
routes to specific bus companies is subject to periodic public bidding
managed by the DNER and the DERs. The bidding process takes into account the
foreseeable level of demand and an evaluation of the operational and
financial capabilities of the companies to undertake the proposed service.
Mechanisms for the periodic adjustments of fares are in place, involving a
close dialogue between the authorities, operators and user representatives.
These adjustments normally take into account input price variations,
occupancy factors and level of service considerations. Although the existing
system has so far worked satisfactorily, in terms of the overall level of
fares, occupancy factors and service performance, there is scope for improved
effectiveness in the regulatory framework. Moreover, the interactio.i between
Federal and State regulation needs to be reassessed toward improved
efficiency of services.   At the Federal level,  this situation is being
discussed through the preparation of the proposed followup Highway Sector
Project, while provision is made under the proposed project for a review of
the regulatory framework in the State of Sao Paulo.
October 1986



- 46 -                              ANNEX I
Table I
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAYS             PROJECT - SAO PAWLO
Price Stigecture of Petrolem kAnto ottw Iuels. July 1986 1/
(in US$ per gallon) 2/
Gasoline "C"     Diesel Oil
Ex-Refinery Price                                    0.55            0.55
Distribution Charges
and Retailer's Margins                             0.13            0.12
Taxes and Para-Fiscal Charges                        0.63            0.18
Retail Price                                         1.31            0.85
Retail Price
(Net of Distribution Charges
and Retailer's Margins)                            1.18            0.73
International Price 4/ (c.i.f. Santos)              0.50 5/          0.45
I/   Prices in effect since February 4, 1986.  As of July 24, 1986, the
Government introduced an additional 28% charge upon the price of
gasoline; this charge would be paid back to the users after a three-year
period.
2/   Exchange rate:  US$1 - Cz$ 13.8.
3/   73 RON gasoline, retailed in a blend of about 20% of anhydrous biomass
alcohol (RON - Research Octane Number).
4/   As of the Third Quarter of 1986.
5/   95 RON Gasoline.
Source: Ministry of Transport and mission estimates
July 1986



STAIR UIG=ffS NAMGU     POJCT - SAO PAIW
Road Traepartation Smubsector's Fel1  2;!Mu tim  (1972-1985)
(in t    _ousad cic meters.
G a soholI                               Total
Anhydrous                   Blend 4/    Gasoline and   Hydrated
Diesel-Oil  Gasoline 'B"1/  Gasoline  A2/ -Alcohol  Gasoline 'C.2/    Z                     Gasohol       Alcohol
1972      6,010           726           10,887            391        11,278          3.5            12,004           -
1973      6,328           912           12,708            309        13,017          2.4            13,929           -
1974      6,809           449           13,683            190        13,873          1.4            14,322           -
1975       7,794          264           14,193            162        14,355          1.1            14,619           -
1976      9,063           178           14,374            172        14,546          1.2            14,724           -
1977      9,826           127           13,337            639        13,976          4.6            14,103           -
1978     10,603           146           13,596          1,504        15,100         10.0            15,246           2           1
1979     11,300           109           13,317          2,219        15,536         i4.3            15,645          16
1980     12,187             7           11,431          2,253        13,684         16.5            13,691         429
1981     11,958             -           10,943          1,146        12,089          9.5            12,089       1,392
1982     12,523             -           10,409          2,021        12,430         16.3            12,430       1,674
1983      12,581            -            8,700          2,197        10,897         20.2            10,897       2,950
1984     12,896             -            7,812          2,082         9,894         21.0             9,894       4,575
1985     13,348             -            7,446          2,121         9,567         22.2             9.567       6,087
1/ 96 RON
2/ 73 RON                                                                                                                        x
3/ Blend of gasoline -A' with anhydrous alcohol, retailed as gasohol
4/ Average annual content of anhydrous alcohol, on a volumentric basis.
Source:   tinistry of Transport
July 1986



- 48 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 3
BRAZIL
STATE HIGUWAYS MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
Truck Fleet (0985)
(number of vehicles)
Vehicle Category                     Year Manufactured                 Total
1984-85     1980-85   Up to 1980
Light Trucks                   25,760       55,307     120,769        201,836
Medium Trucks                  16,464       71,634     407,010        495,108
Medium Heavy Trucks            20,311       53,715      104,814       178,840
Heavy Trucks                    2,154        9,959      60,249         72,362
Extra-heavy Trucks              4,753       8,865        7,053         20,671
Others                             82        1,218       8,979         10,279
Total                   69,524      200,698      708,874        979,096
M%)                     (7.1)        (20.5)       (72.4)        (100.0)
Source: Ministry of Transport
July 1986



- 49 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
STATE BIGRUAYS MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAD PAULO
Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector In Brazil
A.   Highways
1.          The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October
1968) was instrumental in setting the framework for Bank involvement in the
Brazilian transport  sector.   Together with this  loan,  the Bank reached
agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
things, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road-user charges, the
reduction of railway deficits and the improvement of port administration.
The  project  included  detailed  engineering,  construction,  paving,  and
supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states; the
project was successfully completed in September 1972, about a year later than
expected.   The delay was mainly due to design changes and problems with
earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some sections, total project costs were
lower than anticipated. The audit reestimated rates of return for the roads
were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates;
they ranged from 14 to 40% (PPA Report No. 1026 dated February 12, 1976).
2.         The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970)
included construction and paviag of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering
of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies of 3,256 km.   The project provided
technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory capabilities
of  DNER.    Problems  were  encountered  during  construction,  and  delays
occurred. As a result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two
years behind schedule.   Final cost was about 6% above appraisal estimates.
The audit rate of return for the project was higher than the appraisal
estimate (36 as against 27%), mainly because of much higher-than-anticipated
traffic growth.  This was the first major road project carried out entirely
by Brazilian firms under strict specifications and quality controls agreed
with the Bank. The experiences gained by the Brazilian construction industry
and DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as
demonstrated by the performance of followup projects (PPA Report No. 644,
dated June 21, 1977, based on the PCR dated October 27, 1976).
3.           Feasibility and engineering studies included under the Second
Highway Project formed the basis for the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April 1972, and Loan 854-BR, US$51 million,
August 1972).  They included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervision. Civil works in both projects faced the same
problems encountered during the Second Highway Project.  Completion of both
projects,  initially  scheduled  for  1976,  was  at  the  end  of  1977.
Underestimation of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973
and 1974 caused substantial cost overruns.   Reestimated rates of return,
however, were considerably above appraisal estimates:   45% and 29% against
25% and 16% respectively (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No. 2571 of June 8,
1979).  The PPAR noted that inadequate detailed engineering for these two



- 50 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 ot 6
projects contributed to substantial quantity and cost increases.  )It also
pointed out deficiencies in traffic forecasting.
4.          The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BP, US$110 million, January
1973) set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation
and strengthening.   The project Included (a) construction and upgrading of
612 km of federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical
assistance to DNFR to improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing
Station Program; (d) detailed engineering for road construction, upgrading
and rehabilitation; and te) feasibility studies for three new highways
totaling about 900 km.
5.           The project achieved its original objective in upgrading, and
increasing the capacity of, congested road links included in the project,
although these works were completed with about three years' delay, largely
because of the poor performance of the contractors and major design changes
on two of the roads because of geological problems. Also, the final cost of
civil  works  exceeded  appraisal  estimates  substantially.    The  technical
assistance, which helped to improve maintenance planning and management, made
a useful contribution, although it achieved less than expected, partly
because the systems developed by consultants were regarded as too complicated
and did not take into account the local conditions and the level of
development.   Largely as a result of inadequate project preparation, the
weigh bridge program was delayed substantially and only partially completed.
Because of substantial change in the design concept, the program exceeded the
anticipated  cost  significantly.    The  implementation  of  the program was
continued under the Sixth Highway Project.   The PCR was issued on May 8,
1985.
6.           The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August
1978) provided continuity to the Bank's involvement in rehabilitation and
maintenance.   The project included (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and the execution of the detailed engineering for
about another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a highway maintenance and
rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Stations Program; and (d) consulting services to the Road Research Institute
(IPR) to carry out research into pavement overlay design and to GEIPOT to
complete research studies necessary to improve the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model.
7.          Project implementation was delayed from the start, and DER-SP's
highway rehabilitation program was suspended for almost a year because of
lack of counterpart funding. The reactivated program also progressed slowly
because of the erratic availability of funds.   The progress of the Parana
highway rehabilitation program was also affected by low level funding, but
both programs started to accelerate after mid-1983, with the backing of the
Bank's Special Action Program, and were completed in the second half of
1985.   The weigh bridge program continued to have difficulties and delays
under this project, and even a reduced target of 73 weigh bridge stations
remained incomplete under the project.  The still remaining 12 stations are
being constructed with the Government's  own resources.    Although DNER's
pavement research program suffered delays, it was completed satisfactorily in
late 1984, and a new standard for pavement overlay design has been introduced



- 51 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
for fediral highways.  The strengthening of DER-Parana maintenance operations
was completed successfully. The project as a whole was completed at the end
of 1985. The PCR is under preparation.
8.          The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan
2062-BR, US$240 million, November 1981) consists of (a) the construction of
the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about 1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway,
364-BR; (b) a program for strengthening Rondonia state Highway Department
(DER-RO), including construction of district buildings, acquisition of
equipment and technical assistance; and (c) two feeder road programs with
BNDES in the States of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, which include construction
and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads.
9.        The construction of the Northwest Highway, after initial delays due
to inadequate funding, started to accelerate in the second half of 1983 under
the Bank's Special Action Program, and was completed in late 1984, about a
year ahead of appraisal schedule.  The program for strengthening the State
Highway Department of Rondonia has progressed slowly. Consultants assisting
the program were mobilized with two years' delay, and there were
interruptions to the program in early 1985 in connection with the overall
review of various aspects of the Northwest Region Development Program.  It
appears that an extension of the loan closing date of December 31, 1986 would
be required to accomplish the original objectives for the institutional
development of Rondonia's Road Department. This aspect is under review, The
feeder road component of the project has been completed.  In mid-1985, the
Bank agreed to use about US$60 million of loan savings for an emergency flood
rehabilitation program in six Northeastern states. This program is expected
to be completed by mid-1987.
10.       The Federal Hilghways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million,
June 1984) provides assistance in the implementation of a series of programs
included in DNER's 1984-1987 Investment Plan.   The components of the Plan
supported by the project are:   (a) highway rehabilitation program for the
federal highway network; (b) road safety program covering improvement of high
accident locations, pavement marking, highway safety campaign and purchase of
equipment for highway police; (c) training program for DNER and state highway
maintenance personnel; and (d) technical assistance for a pavement management
system, an equipment management system, and highway research studies.
11.        The project made slow progress during the first year.  However,
with increased budget allocations from mid-1985 onward, implementation has
accelerated, particularly the highway rehabilitation component, and presently
about 80% of the loan has been committed by contracts already awarded. The
highway safety and training programs are still behind schedule, but DNER is
making efforts to accelerate the implementation of these components as well.
B.   Feeder Roads Projects
12.           The Secondary and Feeder Roads Preject (Loan 1207-BR, US$55
million, March 1976) represented an innovative approach to the problem of
channeling Bank support toward the improvement of secondary and access roads,
which, in Brazil, is the responsibility of the states and the amnicipali-
ties.  The project was conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's
National Economic Development Bank, BNDES, to finance roughly 50X of the



-52 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
subloans extended by BNDES to DERs or to municipal consortia to carry out
secondary and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production.
The subprojects are prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well
publicized criteria embodied in a manual.
13.        The project was slow in starting because beneficiaries took more
time than anticipated to familiarize themselves with the procedures and to
establish their working relationships with BNDES.   The loan has been fully
committed, financing 18 subprojects in 12 States comprising 5,400 km of roads
and  110 separate  bridges.    However,  implementation  has  been slowed  by
financial problems.  Because the purchasing pr;wer of the ORTN (the monetary
unit in which subloans are made) has decreased and because of cost overruns,
the subborrowers have seen their share of the cost increase by 40% to 60% and
have not been able to keep up the pace of execution of their subprojects.
BNDES prepared, in May 1981, a reformulation of the subprojects under the
First  and  Second  Feeder  Roads  Projects:    (a)  to  reduce  the  scope  of
individual subprojects, in line with the capacity of the subborrowers, so
that all subprojects could be completed by June 1984 for the First Loan and
by the end of 1985 for the Second; and (b) to provide additional financing
for 13 of the ongoing 16 subprojects in order to restore the participation of
BNDES/IBRD to its initial level.   Supplementary subloans for subprojects
under the First Loan are being financed under the Second Feeder Road
Project.   The project was completed vith three and a half years delay in
mid-1984. The PCR was issued on June 14, 1985.
14.       The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million, June
1979) was intended to provide continuity to the program assisted by the First
Project.  The 19 subprojects in 13 states make up a total of about 4,900 km
of  roads  and  370  bridges.    Lack  of  counterpart  funds  slowed  down
implementation in 1982 and 1983. The Bank's Special Action Program helped to
accelerate  the  implementation.    All  but  two  ongoing  subprojects  were
completed by the end of 1986, only slightly behind appraisal schedule.
15.        The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million) was
approved by the Board in December 1982, and the loan was declared effective
in June 1983.   The project is supporting the continuation of the National
Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES, as well as significant policy
development and institution-building efforts for BNDES. The project consists
of provision of subloans for the construction, improvement or rehabilitation
of a total of approximately 8,000 km of roads for a total cost of about
US$450 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, including technical assistance
for advisory services and training of staff to improve the maintenance
capability  of  subborrowers.    The  progress  of  implementation  is behind
appraisal schedule.   Major problems have  been the limits  on the  State
agencies' borrowing capacity and their defaults on obligations to the Federal
Treasury, shortages of counterpart funds, and some weaknesses in the
management of the Program by BNDES.
C.   Railways
16.       The First Railway Project (Loan 786-BR, US$46.0 million, 1971) was
to finance the railway portion of the MBR (Minerasoes Brasileiras Reunidas)
iron ore project (partly financed by Loan 787-BR) to carry 10-12 million tons



-5S3 -                     ANNEX .
Page 5 of 6
of iron ore annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba ocean port
terminal, Although traffic started as planned in July 1973, it was hindered
by operational problems, such as derailments on the Central Line, whose
rehabilitation (financed by RFFSA) took longer than expected.  Also, delays
were encountered in the bridge strengthening program and in completing new
workshops.   The traffic situation improved in 1974, reaching the forecast
level by the end of the year. The project was also to assist the railway in
promoting  more  profit-oriented   activities   and  to  stimulate   better
management. However, the project did not address the institutional issues of
RFFSA, and, in the end, the Bank's dialogue with the Government on this
subject had to take place largely outside the loan's context.  The project
was completed in December 1977, about three years behind schedule (PPAR
No. 4258 dated December 30, 1982).
17.       The Second Railway Project (Loan 1074-BR, US$175.0 million, January
1975) finanz"Pd the first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979 investment plan and,
in addition, included a program of technical assistance. The main objectives
were to enable RFFSA to meet future demands, particularly in transporting
iron ore and steel products in the Central, and agricultural products in the
Southern, regions.  Assistance was also provided for the rehabilitation and
modernization of the suburban passenger services in Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo. In addition to track rehabilitation, the project included purchase of
signaling and telecommunications equipment and rolling stock for the suburban
services in Rio and Sao Paulo, as well as workshop equipment.   The project
was completed in December 1981, about two-and-a-half years behind schedule.
In retrospect, it appears that the project, which included a large number of
individual projects for a total estimated cost of about US$3.2 billion, was
too large for the railway to implement, and the time schedule was clearly too
optimistic.  Many components had to be reformulated and/or postponed.  For
institutional development, the measures and actions which zere essentially
internal to RFFSA were successful.  Regarding broader questions of policles
and relationships with the Federal Government, the difficulties involved were
underestimated, and the appraisal objectives were mostly not achieved (PCR
issued on June 22, 1983; draft PPAR dated March 11, 1986).
18.       The Third Railway Project (Loan 1171-BR, US$75.0 million, October
1975) financed the first two years of FEPASA's 1975-1979 investment plan.
The objectives of the loan were to:   (a) rehabilitate and, as necessary,
expand the system; (b) improve the operational and financial performance of
FEPASA; (c) improve suburban passenger services in the Sao Paulo area; and
(dY strengthen urban transport coordination in the Sao Paulo area.  During
implementation, it soon became evideat that the program was too large for
FEPASA, which, in any case, lacked the necessary funds.  In mid-1977, the
Bank and FEPASA agreed to redefine the project.   However, the redefinition
was complicated by the fact that the loan funds were thinly spread over a
large number of items for which the bidding process was already advanced;
redefinition was completed only in early 1980.  The implementation of the
redefined project progressed satisfactorily until its completion in October
1983 (PCR issued on June 29, 1984, draft PPAR dated March 11, 1986).
19.            The Federal Railway-Export  Corridor-Project  (Loen 2563-BR,
US$200.0 million, signed July 1985), includes a policy and institutional
development  (action  plan)  component  for  the  rationalization  of  the
railway's operations and network and normalization of non-commercial



- 54 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
services, tariff restructuring and better cost-accounting, and more effective
operations and maintenance management; and an investment component for the
rehabilitation and improvement of railway and intermooal facilities in the
Goias-Minas Gerais and the Parana export corridors. The procurement of goods
and civil works is about four months behind schedule, but civil works started
in 1986 in the two corridors.  Progress under the various action plans and
programs has been mixed, but overall satisfactory.
20.        Other Railway Projects or Components.  The Bank has also made a
loan (Loan 1839-BR, 1980, US$159 million) to support the Second Urban
Transport--Porto Alegre--Project, which includes the construction of a
metropolitan rail mass transit system, and it is participating in the
financing of the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 2196-BR, 1982, US$304.5
million), which included the construction of an 890-km railroad in Northern
Brazil for the purpose of exporting iron ore.
D.   Ports
21.         For the port subsector, the Bank has made one loan to PORTOBRAS
(Loan 756-BR, 1971, US$45 million).   This loan assisted the Santos Port
Authority in constructing a container terminal and some 53 km of railroad and
in providing consultant services for engineering and management studies. In
addition, the loan provided for consulting services for improvement of the
National Department of Ports and Waterways (DNPVN) and for an overall Port
Study.   After substantial delays in implementation, involving changes in
project scope and large cost overruns, the project was completed and the loan
closed officially in 1980.
October 1986



- 55 -                          ANNEX 3
Page I of 6
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAYS MA  IeMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
State fighwys Aduaistration
A. Organization of DER-SP
1.         DER-SP became one of the departments of ST in 1963.  Presently,
DER-SP operates through an organizational structure established in 1970
(Chart 2 of the report), accordinrg to which the principal activities ate
divided into the following three areas under the overall direction of the
office of the Superintendent:   (a) the executive/operational functions are
carried out by the Directorate of Operations, through 13 Regional Divisions;
(b) the technical support is provided by the Technical Directorate with
responsibility for highway planning, engineering design, construction,
maintenance, road safety and equipment management; and (c) the administrative
support is provided by the Directorate of Administration, covering personnel,
training, budgeting, and accounting and sapplies.   The Regional Divisions
have supporting units for the main functions of the Technical and Administra-
tive Directorate and also supervise the activities of 54 Residencias,
established for routine maintenance op.;ations, and 30 Residencias in charge
of contract supervision.  Other service units such as legal, procurement and
internal audit are reporting directly to the Office of the Superintendent.
DER-SP employs about 14,000 people, including about 900 professional and
technical staff.
2.           It has been recognized for some time that the above-outlined
organizational structure does not effectively meet DER-SP's expanding
responsibilities, and changes in the present organization have been initiated
to correct the major deficiencies, which have been identified as follows:
(a) some areas, particularly that of pluriannual planning, staff training and
transport operations are poorly administered and understaffed; (b) there are
no provisions for some important functions, such as the control of transport
operations, including that at passenger and freight terminals, and road
research; (c) regardless of needs, the Regional Divisions have uniform
structure, leading to inefficient operations; and (d) the authority of the
Superintendent is constrained to introduce even vAnor modifications to
DER-SP's organizational structure, or transfer staff from one departmental
unit to another.
3.          The institutional reform for DER-SP is planned to be undertaken
gradually.   The reorganization of the upper structure of the Department,
comprising five directorates instead of the present three, is expected to be
approved under a new regulation for DER-SP by the State Governor in January
1987. The major advantages of the new structure are the creation of: (a) an
Advisory Council which, with representation from the productive sectors,
municipalities and operators of freight and passenger transport services,
would be involved in the formulation of road transport policies, regulations
and operational practices; (b) the position of Deputy Superintendent to
relieve the Superintendent of some of his routine administrative duties; and



- 56 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
(c) the Directorate of Planning with the responsibility for developing human
resources, through further institutional improvements and comprehensive
training programs, and improved methodologies for the preparation of
pluriannual physical and expenditure programs.   The new directorates, with
their main functions, are shown in Chart 3 of the report.
4.        The planned reorganization is also being supplemented by management
studies focusing upon the operational aspects at all levels of DER-SP.  The
studies would be followed by action programs to implement the recommended
changes, as deemed appropriate.   Management consultants have already been
engaged  by  DER-SP  to:    (a)  assess  the  likely  impact  of  the  planned
institutional and administrative changes on specific DER-SP functions and
administrative procedures at the headquarters of DER-SP; (b) conduct
institutional-development-oriented training courses for high level staff; and
(c) define more clearly DER-SP's role in public transport management and
operations, and the organizational and staffing requirements for the new
Transport Directorate.   The consultant services, which commenced in August
1986, are scheduled fo: completion by May 1987.  The Bank has been consulted
regarding the proposal for the reorganization of the upper structure of
DER-SP as well as the scope of the ongoing (Phase I) management study.   A
followup managemenr study (Dhase II), primarily for the intermediate- and
mid-level of DER-SP's structure, would be undertaken under the technical
assistance component of the proposed project (Annex 5).
B.   Highway Engineering and Coastruction
5.        DER-SP, mainly through its Technical and Operational Directorates,
administers the preparation and implementation of highway projects.   Based
upon international practices, DER-SP has adopted advanced design standards
and construction methods for new construction, pavement rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance.   DER-SP has also been applying locally developed,
relatively low-cost engineering solutions (e.g., thin asphaltic overlays and
bitumen mixed sand seals) for the extension of pavement life with
satisfactory results.   Lateritic soils covering a substantial part of the
State have favorable characteristics as sub-base and base materials and have
helped to keep road construction costs relatively low. Some further research
regarding the properties and application of these materials is being
.nsidered within the road research program proposed to be financed under the
technical assistance component of the project.
6.            DER-SP, in its Regional Divisions, normally has engineering
capacity to undertake detailed design and supervision of construction works,
carried  out  under  contracts,  through  its  30  Residencias  especially
established for this purpose. In case of excessive workload on these units,
local consultants are engaged to undertake engineering design.  Local firms
are sufficiently experienced in the type of work required. New construction,
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works have been carried out by
Brazilian construction firms under the supervision of DER-SP regional staff.
DER-SP supervision teams are strengthened from time to time with specialists
engaged through consulting firms.



-57 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
C.   Routine Maintenance
7.          Routine maintenance of the state network has traditionally been
carried out by DER-SP through its Residencias as a force account operation.
Although there has been a substantial reduction in routine maintenance
funding, particularly between 1980 and 1985, the decline in the efficiency of
operations is presently a greater concern than funding.  The t,in reasons for
the decline are the lack of effective management, low level of equipment
availability and utilization, and low productivity of aging personnel lacking
motivation.   Despite the loss of personnel through natural attrition and
resignations, overhead represents a very high percentage of the routine
maintenance budget. Furthermore, DER-SP lacks a system through which it can
effectively plan, execute and supervise routine maintenance operations and
keep track of associated expenditures in sufficient detail.
8.         From 1986 onward, allocation of funds for routine maintenance is
being increased, which makes it even more critical that appropriate policies
and measures are introduced to increase the efficiency of routine maintenance
operations,  optimizing  the use of  funds available.    As  steps  in this
direction, DER-SP, in late 1985, decided to develop a Routine Maintenance
Management System (SAC) and to gradually introduce the carrying out of
routine maintenance by unit price contracts for a portion of the network. In
November 1985, with the assistance of the consultants, DER-SP started to
develop SAC and has already initiated its implementation, as a pilot program,
in one of the regions, with a target date of April 1987 for full operation.
It is planned to extend the system to all regions by December 31, 1988.
Simultaneously, DER-SP has been conducting training courses on the
operational aspects of the system, and further training related to SAC, as
well as all aspects of routine maintenance, is scheduled under the staff
training program included in the proposed project (Annex 4).
9.             Although the introduction of SAC is a significant step in
streamlining routine maintenance operations, the present shortfalls and
inefficiencies of routine maintenance operations are, to a large degree, also
due to the inadequacies of equipment supply and the shortage of younger, well
qualified personnel.    Since funds are limited for the purchase  of new
equipment and the recruitment of experienced personnel is hindered by the
prevailing public sector salary levels, it is not considered to be feasible
to bring the Residencias up to full strength and to achieve an efficient and
adequate level of routine maintenance operations by force account operations
alone.   In recognition of this, DER-SP has decided that, in parallel to
improving the efficiency of its force account routine maintenance through
institutional and administrative measures, it will also gradually introduce
contract rc'vtine maintenance for a portion of the network to achieve a well
balanced, cost-effective operation.   DER-SP ervisages the carrying out of
about 60% of the routine maintenance works through contracts by 1990.  The
introduction of SAC and a revision of the equipment administration system are
expected to greatly improve the efflciency of force account maintenance and,
through close monitoring of contract routine maintenance, it would be
possible to make a meaningful comparison of the two modes of operations to
guide future noliev decisions.



- 58 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
D.   Equipment Administration
10.        DER-SP's fleet comprises about 2,000 vehicles, and 1,000 units of
equipment with an average age of over seven years.   According to a recent
condition survey, the fleet is in 31% good, 44% regular and 25% poor
condition. Preventive maintenance is the responsibility of workshops located
in the Residenclas.  Minor repairs are undertaken at regional headquarters,
while major works are carried out either in the main workshop located in
Region 1, with headquarters in Campinas, or by the private sector. In recent
years, the use of private workshops became more frequent because of a
shortage of experienced mechanics.  The reduction of the specialized labor
force has occurred through the combined effect of natural attrition and the
State  Government's  restraint  upon  new  recruitment.    Although  special
gubernatorial permission has been obtained recently to employ essential
skilled labor, such as equipment operators, drivers and mechanics, the
substantial wage difference between the private sector and the public service
makes it difficult to obtain qualified and experienced personnel.   Thus,
DER-SP intends to engage less experienced labor to fill essential vacancies
and, through its training programs, to develop the required skills of the new
recruits.   Although it is the State Government's intention to gradually
adjust public service salaries, DER-SP recognizes that some of the personnel,
after adequate training, would leave the Department for the private sector.
11.          Because of budgetary constraints, there has been only limited
replenishment of the equipment fleet over the past ten years.   To meet
equipment requirements, DER-SP embarked upon a three-year rehabilitation
program in 1985 with the rehabilitation of 900 units of vehicles and
equipment over a four-year period. The equipment selected for rehabilitation
has been screened, and units with an anticipated cost of rehabilitation not
exceeding 25-30% of the cost of replacement were tentatively selected for the
program. A major difficulty has arisen with the rehabilitation of imported
items of equipment for which spare parts are not available in the country,
and DER-SP has not been able to secure foreign exchange for the purchase of
the spares required. DER-SP has requested Bank financing for the procurement
of the spares involving foreign exchange under the proposed project.
12.        Although DER-SP has an equipment administration system, it is not
in operation to its fullest extent, nor is it comprehensive enough to be used
as an effective management tool. For example, there is no readily available
data on the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing individual pieces of
equipment.    There  is also  a lack of  readily ava'lable  information on
equipment availability and utilization.   DER-SP and the appraisal mission
considered that it would be opportune to carry out a review of DER-SP's
present  practices  related  to  equipment  administration.    A  study would
identify areas where appropriate improvements could be introduced to increase
the efficiency of the operation of the Equipment Division and modify or
supplement existing administrative practices to enhance the nmtnagerial
control  within  the  Division.       The  revision  of  DER-SP's  equipment
administration system would be carried out under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project (Annex 5).



- 59 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
E.   Training
13.        The planning and coordination of DER-SP's training activity have
been carried out by the Recruitment and Personnel Development Section within
the  Directorate  of  Administration.   The  unit,  with  limited  staff  and
financial resources, prepared between 25 and 35 training courses annually for
personnel working in different areas and at various levels in DER-SP. During
1986, for example, 34 courses were conducted, but most of them were of one or
two days duration, w'.th restricted participation and within an overall budget
of about US$90,000 equivalent.
14.           In the proposed new organizational structure,  the training
functions would be transferred to the Planning Division, in which a Training
Division would be established with responsibilities in line with DER-SP's
policy to significantly broaden staff training activities in an appropriate
institutional framework.   Toward this objective, DER-SP has formulated a
four-year program for the development and implementation of training
activities, at the various staff levels, as a component of the proposed
project.   The  training activities,  in accordance  with State Government
policies, would also be extended to municipalities in the area of road
maintenance (Annex 4).
F.   Control of Axle-loading
15.         The limits on axle-loading and vehicle weight applicable in Sao
Paulo State are regulated in the National Transport Code, which also
stipulates the extent of fines and authorixes the unloading of excess
weight.   These regulations have not been enforced in the State over many
years, and it was only in 1985 that DER-SP started introducing measures to
control axle-loading and vehicle weights.   At present, seven weigh bridge
stations, operating 24 hours daily, are installed on the State highways
network.   Three more stations are scheduled for completion by the end of
1986, and a further eight stations are planned to be installed during 1987.
Furthermore, ten mobile weigh bridges and twenty service vehicles required
for their deployment have already been acquired by DER-SP.   These, after
initial pilot operation, are scheduled to go into full service in early
1987. Personnel required for the operation of the already installed stations
and the mobile weigh bridges have been recruited and have undergone the
necessary training.   Based upon the experience gained, the axle-load and
vehicle weight control operations would be evaluated by DER-SP to determine
appropriate actions for the future expansion of the system.
G.   Road Research
16.       Although some research activities have been carried out in the past
by the different directorates, DER-SP intends to gradually expand its
research-related activities to keep up to date with recent technological
trends and methodologies in the field of planning, design, construction,
maintenance, road safety and transport operations.  Under the proposed new
institutional arrangement, a Research Unit would be established in the
Engineering  Directorate  to  plan  and  coordinate  all  research-related
activities. The staffing requirement for the Unit would be assessed by Phase
$I of the management study, under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project (Annex 5).  The primary function of the unit would be to



- 60 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
systematically build up a data bank on research material, relevant to
DER-SP's activities, from Brazilian and external sources.
17.          Following discussions with DER-SP during appraisal, areas for
financing research activities under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project were identified as detailed in Annex 5.   DER-SP would
prepare an initial brief for each research project after the review of
material of previous relevant research studies carried out in Brazil or
abroad.  If, in the light of such assessment, the undertaking of a research
project is justified, DER-SP, after consultation with the Bank, would prepare
draft terms of reference, manpower requirements, cost estimates and an
implementation schedule for the project.  The progress on research projects
would be monitored through quarterly progress reports, and, upon completion,
draft 4inal reports would be submitted to the Bank for comments.  Provision
has also been made under this program to finance special equipment and
instruments required for research.
H.   Accounting and Auditing
18.        Under the present organizational arrangements, the Administrative
Directorate is responsible for the administrative and finr.ncial functions.
With the reorganization of the upper structure of DER-SP, these two functions
would come under two separate directorates.
19.         Control of project expenditures is being carriea out at several
stages.  The contractor's certificate is reviewed for physicAl, contractual
and financial aspects by the resident engineers, who are normally responsible
for  on-site  supervision.        Thereafter,   the  payments  are  approved,
sequentially, by the head of the concerned regional office, Director of
Operations, Director of Administration and, finally, the Superintendent. The
procedure is well defined and assisted by a computerized system, linking
Regional Offices with Headquarters, which keeps up-to-date records of each
contract.
20.         In aaLition to internal audit, DER-SP's financial statements are
audited by the Tribunal of Contras do Estado (TCE) at the State level.
Although TCE could qualify as an independent external auditor, the time taken
for auditing is excessive, and, therefore, for the Bank's auditing
requirement, an independent, qualified, private auditing firm would be
engaged.
October 1986



-61 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
STATE RIGWAYS NAIMDIKNT PROJECT - SAD PAULO
Training Prograo
A.   Objective
1.         A four-year staff training program has been formulated with the
objective of establishing an institutional-wide mechanism within DER-SP for
expanded and continuous training activities reaching all staff levels of the
organization.   DER-SP would also extend its program to municipalities to
cover road-maintenance-related activities.
B.   Institutional Measures
2.         As part of the proposed reorganization of the upper structure of
DER-SP, a Training Division would be established within the new Planning
Directorate. The appropriate staff level for the Division is expected to be
built up gradually.    A  tentative organizational  structure  for the new
Division has been drawn up by DER-SP (in Project Files) which would be
reassessed by the training consultant under the first phase of the program
(para 6 of this Annex) and the scheduled Phase II management study for the
intermediate- and mid-level of the organizational structure of DER-SP
(Annex 5 of the report). Responsibility of the Training Division would be to
ensure the management and coordination of the training activities.   More
specifically, the Training Division would (a) coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the training programs; (b) negotiate and make arrangements
with training institutions for external training; (c) administer the training
programs for courses/seminars abroad; and (d) evaluate the results of the
training programs.   With the objectives of providing policy guidelines,
determining priorities, coordinating and periodically evaluating the training
program, a Steering Committee has been established, its key members including
the Superintendent of DER-SP and the Directors of the Technical, Operations
and Administrative Directorates.    For  the planned increase in training
activities, there would be an extension of the present facilities in
Region I, in Campinas, which would function as the principal training
center.  The creation of two regional subcenters with sufficient facilities
for in-class training, seminars, and support for productive training is also
envisaged subject to further assessment of needs and cost-effectiveness of
such arrangements.
C.   Training Needs
3.         Although the program has been formulated to be broad-based, the
main initial focus of the training activities would be to meet the needs of
maintenance personnel at all levels, including engineers, subprofessionals,
equipment  operators  and  mechanics.    With  the  introduction  of  policy,
institutional and administrative changes in the area of routine maintenance
operations, training becomes a critical element for adapting expeditiously to
new procedures and achieving the expected higher level of efficiency in
operations. Several other areas for training are covered by the program, as



- 62 -                           ANNEX 4
-age 2 of 3
detailed in Table I of this Annex.   The training program Is expected to
Involve 4,290 DER-SP personnel in seven main areas of activities. The number
of trainees represents about 50C of the present number of staff employed in
the corresponding areas of work.
4.          The other major target area of the program ti  the training of
municipal personnel involved in highway maintenance operations.  It is the
firm policy of the State Government to extend DER-SP's training activities to
the municipalities which are responsible for the maintenance of a road
network of about 175,000 km.   There are 572 municipalities in Sao Paulo
State, at very different levels of technical and administrative development.
At present, only limited information is available regarding the extent of
training needs.   DER-SP,  at an early stage of the program and with the
assistance of the consultants, would analyze more closely the staff structure
and training needs of about 50 municipalities and, based upon the results of
this pilot exercise, would develop a municipal training component closely
linked to DER-SP's own training activities; the objective would be to
eventually involve all municipalities of the State.   Under the proposed
program, training activities are expected to be extended to about 200
municipalities  involving  about  2,000  subprofessionals,  mechanics  and
equipment operators (Table 1 of this Annex).
D.   Components of the Training Program
(i) Training Facilities
5.         DER-SP would establish the necessary physical training facilities
such as classrooms, workshops and accommodations for trainees in the central
and two regional training centers.   The facilities would be furnished and
equipped with audio-visual and other training aids, books and manuals.
Additional tools and equipment would be purchased to supplement stocks for
workshops and laboratories.   For the road training productive units, road
maintenance equipment would be secured by DER-SP, either by reallocation
among Regions/Residencias or through local purchase which would not be
financed under the project.
(ii) Consultant Services
6.        Consultants would be engaged to assist DER-SP with the planning and
implementation of the training program in two phases. Activities related to
the preparation of the program would be carried out under Phase I and would
include:     (a)  selection  of  the  priority  of  areas  for  training;
(b) occupational analystis of the number of persons requiring training in the
various   functional   categories   according   to   regional   distribution;
(c) definition of training methodologies and preparation of appropriate
training courses; (d) pilot study to define training needs of selected
municipalities as a basis for extending the program to other municipalities;
(e) determination of manpower requirements for administering the program, as
well as the number of instructors needed at various levels and disciplines,
including DER-SP staff to be trained as instructors; (f) assessment of
permanent staff requirements for DER-SP and the organizational structure for
the new Training Division; (g) determination of physical training facilities
and training material and equipment requirements; and (h) development of a
methodology for evaluating the effectivenese of training activities.   In



- 63-                             ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Phase II, the consultants would assist DER-SP with the implementation,
supervision and evaluation of the program.
7.         The consultants would be selected from short-listed firms having
adequate experience in the various disciplines of highway engineering and
administration as well as in training.   The teams would include:   (a) a
training specialist with overall staff training and institutional management
experience (team leader); (b) specialists experienced in the preparation and
conducting of training courses in the highway sector particularly related to
highway maintenance; (c) an equipment and workshop specialist; and (d) a
specialist to train selected DER-SP staff as part-time instructors.   The
services would be for a two-year period, totaling 68 man-mcnths (Table 2 of
this Annex). Some of the new Training Division staff would be counterpart to
consultant personnel.   The draft terms of reference for the consultant
services have been prepared by DER-SP (in Project Files).
E.   Training Methodology
8.           The training of DER-SP staff would be carried out in various
forms. The type of training and the content of the courses would be defined
through the analysis of the specific requirements of the particular
occupational groups within DER-SP and the selected municipal units.
Instructors, dome for short terms and others for specific assignments, would
be selected either from DER-SP senior staff or from the private sector.
DER-SP instructors would be trained by specialists in training techniques and
methodologies. There would be courses through external training institutions
and universities as well as specially designed courses and seminars for an
estimated 390 professional staff.   It is expected that about 390 courses
would be conducted for about 3,900 subprofessionals, mechanics and equipment
operators. In addition, mechanics and equipment operators would participate
in specifically designed training-through-production courses. Provision has
also been made in the programs for inviting foreign specialists to conduct
short courses or seminars in selected areas and for training abroad
(fellowships) for DER-SP staff.   The latter would provide opportunity for
high- and mid-level staff in the highway planning, engineering and
maintenance fields and for training officers and permanent instructors of the
Training Division to be exposed to technological development in other
countries (Table 3 of this Annex).
F.   Cost Estimate
9.        The cost of the training component is estimated at US$5.31 million
equivalent as detailed in Table 4 of this Annex.
October 1986



- 64 -                                                                   ANNEX4
Table I
-I..
1       o .4  gaae   t. be Troft". IN Am  No f..tI._
PUt10tON/tITA                  lNCTtON/YtAR                    lUNCTtON/YRAS                  FUNC tON/YSea
MBA~~;;; Pr_f_                                  Suh-                                                             Eq   ___tuiD.____
tgA                * atona    1987 1988 1989 1990  Protef- t987  19E8 t 83990   echantces 1987 3988 1989 1990  Otr-  1987  988 I 989 1990  TOTAL
RO_TI_  _AtNUNAM    I_   _ 63  12 s7          1 ton                                                                 lot " __
ROU(SACM) NtNANCtL!             161       12   67   61   21       800    68  364  342  114        .         _    .         _     _ 1200    92  492  462  154  2.251
MAINTENANCE                     139       03   16   15   05         _     _    _    _    _       900        69  369  347  I I          _     _       _           939
PlAL..N5  3/                     20       02   08   08   02        -      -    -    -    -                       -          -             -                       20
tNFORLATtON SVStWS */            12   01        OS3   05   03   _   _       _    _ _  .   . . _ _  _  _ * _                                                - _2
TRAISP./TRAPFtC 3' 31                      01   14   14   05      677    52  277  261  8?7                                     _ _ . _ _    - _ _                713
-_ __ __ _ _ _ __ -_--    -. _ _                                                                                                   - - I
AMNItSRATIOM 6/                  60       05   24   23   08         _     _    _    -              -      -         -    -         -      -     -    -            (0
PROJECT/CONSTllUCTION 71         60       05   24   23   08       23S    19   96   90   30        -         -    _    _          .     _     _      _
31  I3"  ISI   50             119  737  693  231                 69  369  347  333             92                       i '621 154
TOTAL                    390   _._00                                                      900                 _ _ _       13200           L              .2_0
Notes;
1/   Proteftionale - Engitneers
Sub-Profeesionuls - Kid-Ievol Support Staff, 14sittitrstoars*  Entneertng Technicians, E4utment Oprstnor. Drtvers, l4chtne Operators. ForTeNn
21   Protenstonuls  - Mechanical Efgtneers
*t   ProteoetoniAls -  gatotenrs
WI  Protessionals ^ Syste  Analyst
_I   Profeesionsln - Engineers
Sub-Profes,tonals - Weigh brtdge Operators and Pubitc Transport Supervtsors
6/   Profeeeionals - Systea  AIlysts. IKange:0
1' Profeseionele - gngineers
Sub-Profenston.le - Laboratory and Works Supervisors
P.rometei to be Trained - 1987-190 - Nhitcil Coamt
FUNCTIOI/YEAR                  rl uNCTWO/YZAR                  FUNCTION/YEAR         I
Sub-                                                             EiP.
AREA              Protes-   1987 1988 1989 t990  Mechanics 1987  1988 3989 3990|Opera- 1987 1988  1989 190 TOTAL
sional I/                                21                        tors3l
HICHWAY KAtNTENANCE           600       47  246  230   17        -         -0 -0          -    60       47  746  230   77  3,700
MECHANICS                -       -    -    -    -        800       62  32   308     2-    -    -                          00O
47  246  230   77                62  328  308   02              47  7461 2301  "7
|   TOTAL            |   600                               80W                             600                          2,000
Notes
I/   Sub-Profuessonadc - Crew Foremen, Administrators
T/   Mechanics. Workshop Assistants
3/   Equipment Operators and Drivers
Smry of Tresee - 3987-190
t   -      3§ 1987    1988 l  i989        £ 1990  fTOTAL
I TOTAL|   487  |  2.576       2,423       806    b,290
Source: DER-SP
July 1986



- 65 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 2
STAUI UIGWAYS MWMIK  E     P     CT - SAO PAMLO
Trainimg !Moau - Cizsultant Services
(in stef f-outbs)
Tentative Schedule
Total
Level                        1987     1988      1989    man-months
_ _    _                     .     ~      ~~~~~~ 12 4
Training Specialist (Team Leader)              8      1                    24
Highways Specialist                            8    6                      14
Equipment and Workshop Specialist                 6 2                      14
Training Instructor                             L  2                        8
6 2
Other Specialist                                                            8
Total:                        30       32         6        68
Source: DER-SP
July 1986



- 66-                              ANNEX 4
Table 3
RZIL
STATE HI:GHWS         I IU    PRJECT - SAO PAMLO
Trailng Ptogra  - hllowships (1987-1990)
Tentative Schedule
(number of fellowships)
Staff-
Area of Training           Number   Months    1987   1988   1989   1990
1.  Training Administration        2        4        1              1
2.  Highway Administration         2        4                1      1
3.  Highway Planning               4        8        1       2      1
4.  Pavement Management            4        8         1      3
5.  Equipment Management           2        4         1      1
6. Maintenance Management          4        8        1       2      1
7.  Structures                     2        4                1             1
8.  Material Testing               4        8                2      2
9.  Highway Safety                 2        4                1             1
10. Highway Operations              2        4                1             1
11. Others to be Defined            2        4                2
Total:              30        60        5     16      6       3
Source: DER-SP
July 1986



- 67 -                                              ANNEX 4
BRIL                                               Table 4
STATS fiG1US NAGDW PROJCT - NO PNW
Tr1Lq#s from.
Estleted Cost
(in USS'OOO)
elA  I   fetw*p     tovatet bta
1.  TraIoUfllaPetItI
Ibi dl    am  lo 141mg q vinst_                          3%4   t              30                       2
"uteat awl Offl   tqmi_t                                  4         16         a                       a
uIb gVA aLaO ttlss"                                       4                    d0                      42
AdIpYlNml IaIplt @d
trelhla  Alda                                           60        5         110                      4
Su*total                                     I         S         32
3. Ttoalagl COwes
() P0w lmls 130  teIarln
TItolalr4 wterooft2                                                       §
P   d1e/                                             1         -         no 
Truapwt U                                              4        2          6                      3
Iem¢turst, (mOve I
Courass                                             15       3         1O                      26
Subtotal                                    316        50        36
(2) Iubnfaalle  moalo,
op"ens (3,10 tbotae)
TralaingNtWlal 3/                                    67g       ns        S0                       as
Pot 41 / V, 130                                                -        1,13                       a
Tt_rat Y                                              3S       It         5                       3
Inabuster   6/                                       315      IN         420                      25
SpAtotal                                  2,162       36       2,510
(3) mulelpel Ompmwt
(2,000 trailn
Tralng Notaral* 7                                    172      6a         22                       as
Per 4dIMV                                            210 n0-               0                       O
TtteoWt V                                             20        9         2                       30
lstttMt#  10/                                       1S        a         210                     2S
Subt$                                       s0        121       i76
4.  Cuamltmot Semvlaco. Fo1l a"lpa
Cmavlbtt swvimos 11/                                     30        374        04                       4
Extorl ScIal.lts 12V                                     12        4          60 s0
Fslulablpa 131                                            43       317        30                       6
Subtotal                                    315        3       1,064
TOM                             391111    tm        SV-
1/ 360 x 10 days a NJ.0                     v  2.000 a la days x USS14JO
V  360 x US14J0                             6  2,000 , U54.6S
0 coursestoo  St..    1460      14           0  to x 42  uts x UX 
4y 3,100 u   d2 s a 11514.3                 IV  66 lU01.tb  OnadI4l1  24 otrlet aa'usatb, UWO,O1vftb Iomll
3Y 05 a US14,.S                             US12,000mot  .strolot *5 Inoldhtl eq.
/ 20 a U ii  a _t     6u00.O                IV  4    _mon WSISOOIsooth 4lvaluat)
7 U  sovie a*0 ItW. a U114J0           -13/ 0 awromulas; MSA,WNUm  11.06dleg per d..n aIrfare ad I
Jurey D08
July 1986



- 68 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 10
BRAZIL
STATE UGGHUYS  hX&uXA EN, PROJECT - SAO PAULO
Technical Assistance - Studies and Services
Summary
The cowponents of the technical assistance are summarized as
follows: In relation to State transport sector policy, two studies would be
undertaken, one on State road pricing and the other on public transport
regulations.   Three studies related to transport planning and operations
would aim for improvement in the application of a transport demand model for
the  preparation  and  evaluation  of  transport  policy  and  investment
alternatives, including calibration, software development and staff training
for its application.   The ftdrth study in this category would address the
institutional and administrative requirements for the effective coordilation
of interregional passenger and freight road transport among the various
public and private institutions involved.   The technical assistance for
improving  highway  management  involves  six  specific  areas.    A  Highway
Subsector Coordination study would address the subsectoral issues at federal,
state, and municipal level in light of the trend for decentralization under
the new Federal Administration and the recent restructuring of highway
funding.   The study would make recommendations on measures required to
achieve greater cooperation at administrative, financial and technical levels
among the agencies  responsible  for road  infrastructure.    The Bank has
supported feeder road programs in the State of Sao Paulo under three feeder
road projects.   The impact study of feeder roads in the State would be
beneficial to provide guidance in the selection of regions and projects for
future programs. The institutional and management capability of DER-SP would
benefit greatly from the financing under the technical assistance:
(a) Phase II of the management study, which would be a well justified
continuation to the institutional measures already taken by DER-SP and would
examine the administrative and staffing needs at intermediate- and mid-level
of the organization; (b) the development of PMS, which would be essential for
expanding DER-SP's planning capability and the formulation of pluriannual
physical and financial programs based upon economic priorities; (c) the
review of the present equipment administration system with the objective of
evolving an effective equipment management system (EMS) for DER-SP; and
(d)  selected  studies  and equipment  for road  research.    During project
appraisal, understanding was reached regarding the outline terms of reference
for each component of the technical assistance, as detailed in the
following.    The  extent  of  the  services  envisaged,  cost  estimates  and
implementation schedule are presented in Table I of this Annex.



- 69 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 10
A.   State Transport Policy Studies
1.   State Road Pricing
Background
Road pricing constitutes an important policy instrument to manage
traffic demand and to raise revenue which can be used to fund road programs.
Recent legislation has passed over to the States the responsibility for
fixing the motor vehicle registration tax. This tax, together with tolls on
State roads, has become an important road pricing mechanism under State
jurisdiction.
Obiectives
To develop and implement, in the Sao Paulo State, an analytical
framework to assist the Secretariat of Transport in fixing adequate levels
for the road pricing elements under its jurisdiction, in the context of an
equitable road cost recovery system. This system should adequately take into
account the federal-raised user-charges system.
Scope
The study would involve the following main tasks:  (a) assessment
of variable costs imposed by each category of user upon the State road
network or upon other users; (b) estimation of user-charges levied through
Federal taxation on each user; (c) recommendation for levels of motor vehicle
registration tax and tolls in the State, taking into account economic
efficiency   and    administrative    effectiveness    considerations;    and
(d) implementation of a system for the periodic monitoring and updating of
State road prioing policy.
2.   Regulation of Inter-Municipal Passenger Public Transport
Background
The Sao Paulo State inter-municipal bus transport system comprises
about 1,400 regular lines, served by a fleet of some 16,000 vehicles operated
by about 600 companies.  The system is heavily regulated by the Secretariat
of Transport, but no direct subsidy is involved.   However, the regulatory
framework is complex and outdated, and its comprehensive review is required.
Objectives
To assess the Government's role, through a review of the
effectiveness and efficiency of the existing regulatory system, and to
recommend the required adjustments toward ensuring adequate levels of setvice
at competitive rates.
Scope
The  study  would  involve  the  following  main  tasks:    (a)  to
characterize the distinct types of bus services by route, namely suburban,



- 70 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 10
inter-urban on paved roads, and rural on earth roads, toward assessing costs
to the operators; (b) to characterize the distinct types of user by
socioeconomic category in order to evaluate the impact of tariff levels upon
household income; (c) to assess the efficiency of operations and propose
improvements; (d) to reassess the Government role based upon a cost/benefit
analysis of the existing regulations; and (e) to recommend adjustments in the
regulatory framework, if so warranted, in order to improve its effectiveness
and its monitoring capabilities.
B.   Transport Planning and Operations Studies
3.   Information System for Transport Planning
Background
In 1978, the Government of Sao Paulo State developed a regional
model,   of   the   Input-Output   type,   associated   with   modal-split,
route-assignment and economic evaluation submodels.  This model package was
developed to assist in the preparation and evaluation of transport
investments and policies in the State.  Since the model was calibrated with
reference to a 1973 data set, it is necessary to reestimate several
elasticities and  parameters  included  in model  formulation,    This would
require the development of a new information system, which could also be used
for short-term monitoring of sector development.
Objectives
To implement a transport information system for Sao Paulo State and
to prepare the methodology for its continuous updating.   The system would
constitute the basis for the formulation, analysis and monitoring of
transport programs and policies in the short and medlum term.
Scope
The study would include the development of the following main
tasks: (a) origin-destination survey of commodity flows, through cordon and
screen-line interviews and countings.  The information generated should be
pripared to allow for the calibration of the elasticities and other
parameters included in the activity-location and demand modules of the
transport simulation model; (b) information systems to accommodate a
spatially  disaggregated  data  basis,  covering  production,  consumption,
productive installed capacity, traffic flows and capacities, and modal costs
a-id tariffs.   The zoning system should include the internal and external
traffic zones required to adequately characterize the demand for transport in
the State; and (c) set of indicators to assist in the annual monitoring of
the performance of the different transport modes, including   operational,
economic and financial aspects.



- 71 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 10
4.   Updating of the Transport Model Structure
Background
In 1978, the Government of Sao Paulo developed and calibrated a
comprehensive transport planning model for the State. Experience gained with
model use throughout the 1985-1986 period suggested the advantage of refining
the structure of the model and recalibrating i.ts parameters with reference to
a new data basis.
ObJectives
To  refine   the  model  structure  in  order  to  incorporate:
(a) modal-split submodele of the multi-level logit type; (b) route-allocation
submodel capable of formulating intermodal transfers at the network level;
(c) interface between key results of multimodal demand simulations and the
supply-side models used by the modal agencies, such as the HDM; and (d) new
estimate of elasticities and other parameters of the distinct subF.odels
included in the activity location and transport demand modules.
Scope
The study would include the development of the following main
tasks:    (a)  computer  software  for  the  multi-level  logit  submodels;
(b) extension of the economic analysis subnodel to allow for the direct
calculation of investment efficiency indicators behind the first year
cost/benefit ratio; (c) reformulation of the coding system for the network
graph to improve the modeling of intermodal connections; and (d) model
recalibration for the following set of products: general cargo, light solid
bulks, heavy solid bulks, liquid bulks and containers.
5.   Training Program for Transport Policy Analysis
Background
The State of Sao Paulo initiated, in 1984, the development of a
continuous transport planning process based upon a spatially disaggregated
Input/Output model for the State economy. The experience gained so far with
model use suggested the necessity of increasing the number of staff involved
with model use.
Objectives
To prepare relevant professional staff of the State Secretariat of
Transport and modal agencies in systemic transport planning analysis,
policy-formulation and economic evaluation techniques,  through productive
training in support of transport policy-making.
Scope
The   program   would   involve   the   following   main   tasks:
(a) preparation and delivery of seminars and courses on transport demand
simulation, cost/benefit analysis and institutional and operational aspects
of sector management; and (b) preparation of case studies in direct support



- 72 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 10
of the implementation of specific policies and ,rograms by the Secretariat of
Transport, including road pricing, transport operations, and the rolling
pluriannual investment programs.
6. Management of State Road Transport Operations
Background
Interregional road transport management has been predominantly
limited to the execution of infrastructure works, despite the considerable
administrative responsibilities assigned to DER-SP in the regulation of
passenger transport and monitoring of the trucking industry.   The dominant
position of interregional road transport in the State economy, with its
increasing complexity, is compounded by several interfaces with urban
transport and inter-modal terminals, including the Santos Port. Accordingly,
road transport management has to be broadened to increasingly cover the
operational aspects of transport and to allow for an improved institutional
coordination with other transport modes and levels of decision-making.
Objectives
To prepare the institutional measures required for improving the
coordination between the State Secretariat of Transport and other public and
private sector institutions involved in the management of road transport
operations.
Scope
The study should recommend the institutional and administrative
setup required to insure an effective coordination among the relevant levels
of decision-making, including the key policy variables and indicators to be
discussed and monitored jointly. These should cover, but not be limited to,
tariff levels, traffic management, service standards, and enforcement
mechanisms.
C.   Highway Management
7.   Highway Subsector Coordination
Background
Legislation   appro4'd   since   1986   has   restored   greater
decentralization in fiscal collection and allocation of revenues to the
highway subsector. The motor vehicle registration tax would be fixed by the
States and its proceeas directly collected by them; a 50% share would be
passed on to the municipalities.  Moreover, the share of the road transport
tax transferred by the Federation of the States has been increased from 20%
to 50%, while a 20% share has been allocated, for the first time, to the
municipalities. However, for this decentralization effort to be successful,
improved institutional capability would be required at the level of the
decentralized agencies, some of which may not have the required management



- 73 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 10
expertise, particularly in developing and implementing comprehensive road
investment and maintenance programs.
Objective
The objective of the study would be to assess highway subsectoral
issues at the federal, state and municipal levels, taking into account recent
decentralization trends and the restructuring of highway funding, and to make
recommendations  for  achieving  greater  cooperation  on  administrative,
financial and technical levels among the agencies responsible for road
infrastructure.
Scope
The study, which would be coordinated by representatives of MT,
DNER, GEIPOT, State Transport Secretariats, DERs and ABDER, would cover the
following main tasks:   (a) taking as a starting point the data already
collected by GEIPOT and ABDER, estimating the funds and other resources
required for the expansion, maintenance and operation of the federal and
state road systems, based upon available road condition surveys and
expenditure programs; (b) assessing, within each state, similar requirements
for the municipal network; such assessment would be synthetized by
appropriately aggregating municipalities within states or regions which
exhibit common characteristics; (c) identifying key impediments to improved
highway  management  at  all  three  levels  of  highway  administration;
(d) identifying areas for coordination and technology transfer among the
different agencies to achieve greater national uniformity for the development
of investment and maintenance programs, through the selection of priorities
based upon appropriate economic criteria, design standards, technical
specifications, equipment management systems and the like; and (e) in light
of   the   assessed   financial   and   institutional   capabilities,   making
recommendations for the reorientation of the roles and responsibilities of
the federal, state and municipal authorities regarding the highway subsector.
8.   Impact of Feeder Roads Development on Communities
Background
During the past four years, the State's road program included the
construction of about 4,500 km feeder roads in about 20 municipalities having
diverse demographic and economic characteristics. For example, the Portal de
Paranapanema region, with low population density and large land holdings, is
economically dependent upon extensive cattle raising. By contrast, the Alta
Paulista region, originally a densely populated agricultural area for small
landowners, where coffee production has collapsed, has serious economic
problems and has lost a significant portion of its population over the past
20 years.   Such contrasting economic, social and regional characteristics
demonstrate the need for greater care in selection of areas for the feeder
road program.
Objective
The objective of the study would be to identify and analyze the
impact of feeder road development upon the economy and social structure of
the communities, primarily in the Northeastern region of the Sao Paulo



- 74 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 10
State.  Through the study, a better understanding would be reached regarding
the influence of improved road access upon the communities, the appropriate
criteria for the location of feeder roads and the characteristics of the
projects which are most beneficial to the communities,   Such information
would be useful for the future planning of the feeder road program.
Scope
This type of analysis is complex since, simultaneously with the
effect of improved access provided by the feeder roads, other events also
influenced  the changes which took place in the communit4es.   The major
changes which would be assessed and related to feeder road development would
cover the following areas:  (a) Agriculture:  value of production, level of
technology, trading practices, soil conservation, wastage of agricultural
produce; (b) Land Tenure:  number of rural properties, soil use, land value
and land taxes,  land  ownership  characteristics;  (c)  Demography:    total
population,  urban/rural  distribution;  (d)  Public  Services:          health,
schooling, public transport, communication, power supply, public safety and
road safety; (e) Employment: rural employment, work relationships, place of
habitation for rural labor, wages, working hours, number of workers
in  the  transport  industry;  (f)  Private  Sector:    business  activities,
services, trade profile of agricultural commodities; (g) Transport:  number,
type and distribution of vehicles, transport cost, type of commodities
transported,  transport  enterprises;  and  (h) Living  Standards:    cost of
living, living style, public life, health, education and safety.
The study's report would summarize the principal conclusions and
provide information on the effect of feeder roads regarding: (a) the nature
of impact; (b) the measurable indicators of various changes in relation to
historical development; (c) the groups affected by the changes and the
characteristics of such changes; and (d) proposed criteria for improved
selection and location.
9.   Phase II Management Study
Background
The reorganization of the upper structure of DER-SP is expected to
be approved in January 1987, which would require followup management studies
to define the staffing and administrative procedures in a new organizational
framework.
Objective
The Phase II management study would comprehensively review the
institutional requirements at the intermediate- and mid-level of the
organization to clearly define the responsibilities and administrative
procedures in order to assure satisfactory coordination among the various
directorates and divisions, and to reassess staff requirements for the
various functions.



- 75 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 10
Scope
The detailed scope of the study would be defined after the
completion of Phase I of the management study, which commenced in August 1986
and  is scheduled  to be completed in May 1987.   Experienced management
consultants would be selected to work closely with DER-SP executive and
senior staff to analyze intermediate- and mid-level work area", and carry out
occupational analysis to determine short- and medium-term requirements
regarding administrative procedures and staff strengths.
10. Development of a Pavement Management System (PMS)
Background
Although the preparation of the annual project implementation and
investment programs has been a routine activity, DER-SP, so far, has not
evolved a system for the preparation of pluriannual physical and financial
programs based upon regularly conducted road condition surveys and economic
priorities.
Objective
The purpose of the study is to assist DER-SP with the development
and continuous operation of a PMS to facilitate the preparation of
pluriannual  investment  programs  for  highway  rehabilitation,  periodic
maintenance and paving of earth/gravel roads bared upon up-to-date road
condition surveys and appropriately evaluated economic priorities for project
selection.
Scope
The consultants, under the general guidance of a Pavement
Management Steering Committee comprising key senior staff of DER-SP, would:
(a) develop a methodology for the systematic collection of information, such
as road surface roughness, pavement deflection, surface cracking or other
parameters, required for the assessment of pavement conditions and the
estimated rate of pavement deterioration; (b) utilizing the HDM-III Model,
define an appropriate methodology for the processing of data to determine
investment alternatives on the network level and optimized annual and
pluriannual highway rehabilitation, maintenance and paving programs for
alternative service and budget levels; (c) determine DER-SP's institutional
requirements for the routine operation of such system; (d) prepare guidelines
and manuals for the system's operation, and design courses for the training
of DER-SP personnel in all relevant aspects of the system's operation; and
(e) assist in the preparation and execution of the first full cycle of the
system's application.
11. Development of an Equipment Management System (EMS)
Background
Although DER-SP has an equipment administration system, it is not
being used to a satisfactory extent, nor is it comprehensive enough to be
used as an effective management tool. There are no readily available data on



-76 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 10
the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing individual pieces of
equipment and, also, there is a lack of readily available information on
equipment availability and utilization.
Objective
The purpose of the study is to review DER-SP's present equipment
administration practices with a view to identify those areas which
require strengthening, and to recovmend appropriate changes so that an
effective EMS can be developed and implemented in DER-SP.
An Equipment Management Steering Committee assisted by consultants
would be responsible for the development of the system.   The study would:
(a) review recent inventory data on the condition of the vehicle and
equipment  fleet;  (b)  evaluate  the  proposed  equipment  rehabilitation
program in coordination with the findings of the management system for
routine maintenance (SAC) regarding future vehicle and equipment needs;
(c) review the criteria and develop guidelines for equipment repair,
rehabilitation and replacement policies, taking into account the capacity and
efficiency of DER-SP's own workshops as well as the possibility of using the
private sector for some of the works to be undertaken; (d) develop improved
procedures for scheduling routine maintenance and repair of equipment,
warehouse administration, acquisition of spare parts, and evaluating of
equipment availability and utilization; and (e) refine the accounting system
so that the costs associated with each individual equipment can be
determined.
12. Road Research, Equipment for Research
Background
Although some research activity has been carried out in the past by
the different directorates, there has been no institutional framework for
coordinating such  activities.    DER-SP  intends  to gradually expand  its
research-related activities to keep up-to-date with recent technological
trends pertinent to its field of operation.
Objective
In DER-SP's revised organizational structure, a Road Research Unit
would be established in the Directorate of Engineering to gradually expand
DER-SP's research activities to keep up with recent technological trends and
carry out independent research.
Scope
The following areas have been identified for potential research
activities for DER-SP during 1987-1990:   (a) low-cost pavement for feeder
roads using local materials; (b) stabilization of lateritic materials for
road base and subbase as well as for surfacing of low-volume feeder roads;
(c) improved testing procedures for controlling the quality of bitumen and
paints used for road markinss; (d) highway capacity studies on account of the



-77 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 10
high percentage (40X-60%) of commercial vehicles; and (e) study of pavement
deterioration of rolled asphalt surfaces for application with the HDM-III
Model.    The  purchase  of  research-related  equipmenL  (roughness  meter,
instruments for pavement deflection measurement, etc.) would also be
considered  for  financing  under  this  component.   Universit.es,  research
institutions, consultants and individual experts supported by DER-SP field
staff would be involved in the research studies, which would be designed
individually following prior assessment of the results of research carried
out in the same areas in Brazil or other countries.
October 1986



STATE HrNoVAYS NAIMBIIT FROJECT - SAD PAULO
Technical 4sslstaeno
Mon4lonths Staff           Duration        Scheduled         Estlomted Cost (USS t000)
Studles/Services                          Total   Senior   Junior   ED     In omntbs   ,Iol a_tation          Local     Fwalon      Tfotal
A.   State Transport Fb icy Studies
1. State Road Pricing                                  28     (16)      (12)     t-)         7    AprIl-Oct '67           157         53        210
2. RogulatIon of Interw-unicipal
Passenger Public Transport                       26      (26)      C-)     (1)         9    Nay '87-Jan '68        618          76         260
B.   State Transport Planning and  weratIon Studies                                          Subtotal:                         541         129        470
3.  informatlon System for Transport Planning          94      (40)     (54)     (2)         is    April 187-Sept '68    420          170        590
4.  Updating of the Transport Model Structure          76      (52)     (24)     (6)         16    July '87-Oec '68       314         176        490
5. Tralning Progra  for Transport
Policy Analysls                                          (32)     (12)     (3)         18    July 188-OBc '89       130         90         220      Co
6.  Ihnagement of State Road Transport Operations      49      (19)     (30)     (-)         8    Nby-Dec '87             225          75        300
C,  H"Ighwy    _eent                                                                         Subtotal:                        1,099        511      1,600
7.  Hlghwey Subsector Coordination                     42      (42)      (-1     (1)        12    June '87-ay '86         535         190        725
8.  ilaact of Feeder Roods Development
on Communitles                                    14    (14)        -)     C-)         8     May-Doec  87            9D         30         120
9. Phase II Nanagemnt Study                            30      (26)      (4)     (-)        12    May '87-April  68e      16S         55         220
tO.  DOevelopment of a Pavemnt Monagement System        21     (21)       C-)     (-)        12    April '87-March '86   150           50        200
It. Oevelopment of an Equipment Management System       10     i10)       (-)     (2)         4     April-July 287          68         52         120
12. Road Research, Equlpment for Research               30 2/                                       May '607-Dec '90       225        155        360
Subtotal:                      1,233         532      t,765
TOTAL:                         2,673       1,172      3,835
If Included under Senior Staff.
3   Estimated for various studies to be defIned.
Source: DER-SP ond mission estimates.
October 1986_ 



-79 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
STATIE EIGHAYS MANAGENENT PtOJICT - SAO PAULO
Eonomic  hIaysis
1.          The economic analysis of DER-SP's paved road rehabilitation and
maintenance program was performed in two phases.   In the first phase, the
economically more desirable expenditure strategy for the network as a whole
was selected, based upon a general road condition survey.   This strategy
indicates the recommended expenditure level for different categories of
roads, classified as a function of average traffic categories and pavement
conditions, and for a given level of budgetary availability.   In a second
phase, specific stretches of roads, falling within categories for which
Investments in rehabilitation and strengthening are recommended, were
identified and subjected to a detailed road condition survey and subsequent
engineering design. At this stage, a refined economic evaluation, reflecting
uesign standards and costs and specific traffic projections, was carried out
for each stretch of road to confirm the economic priority of the
corresponding investment.
2.         In both phases of economic analysis, the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model-Release III (HDM-III)' was used.  This model predicts the
life-cycle costs of different road maintenance and rehabilitation options,
Including different time staging strategies, either for an entire highway
network or for a specific road subprolect. It estimates the total costs for
large numbers of alternative expenditure strategies on a year-by-year basis,
and can thus be used to search for the alternative with the highest net
present value (NPV), at a given discount rate.  The objective is, thus, to
search out that combination of standards and policies which results in the
minimum total life-cycle costs to society, including the costs to road users,
as well as the costs borne by the highway authority.   Vehicle speeds and
operating costs, and road deterioration and maintenance costs are internally
estimated by the model as a function of road design and maintenance
standards, traffic volumes and axle loads, and environmental conditions.
Maintenance and vehicle operating costs are first estimated in physical
quantities; then prices and unit costs, as specified by the user, are applied
to determine the total financial, economic and foreign exchange cost.
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
3.           DER-SP's basic objective, while preparing its pluriannual road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, has been to determine an economic
balance between alternative standards of road rehabilitation, strengthening,
resealing, patching and other routine mainte.-,ance operation for the State
paved network as a whole, for a given level of budgetary availability. The
network analysis was based upon a road condition survey covering about
15,000 km of the paved network under DER-SP responsibility. The network was
divided into six types of representative sections, as a function of pavement
surface (asphalt, concrete and surface tre.atment) and of pavement condition
(good, regular and bad). Each of these sections, in turn, was characterized
by engineering structural and condition parameters in order to be inputed



-80 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
into the road deterioration submodels of the HDM III.   For each of the
sectivns so identified, a further classification was established following a
matrix relating road condition to ten categories of traffic volumes.  Each
cell of this matrix represents the kilometrage of roads belonging to each
traffic  category  and  whose  pavement  is  characterized  by  a  certain
surface/condition type.
4.        Traffic volumes were obtained from routine observation data.  Five
vehicle Lategories, namely cars, buses, medium trucks, heavy trucks and truck
combinations, were used to represent the traffic composition in the
analysis.    Detailed  information  for  each  category  was  also  provided,
including fuel type, gross vehicle mass, payload, equivalent number of axles
per vehicle, normal vehicle service life, hours and kilometers driven per
year, and average number of passengers per vehicle.
5.         Also, basic cost inputs were prepared.  These included unit costs
for the distinct categories of works to be simulated and for the different
components of vehicle ownership, operation and maintenance.
6.              DER-SP  initially developed  several  alternative  investment
strategies for the period 1986-2000, by combining distinct standards and
types of works and different times of intervention, based upon network
condition  but  taking  into  consideration  a  first  estimate  of  total
infrastructure costs associated with the implementation of each alternative.
Subsequently,  strategy  interaction  with  road  condition,  traffic  and
environment was modeled using HDM-III.  Results of this simulation allowed
for a redefinition of the initial strategies, taking into account economic
optimality within each alternative and a refined estimate of the budgetary
requirements associated with the corresponding implementation. The planning
exercise was reiterated, tnd four policy packages, each corresponding to a
combination  of  the  investment  strategies  initially  simulated,  were
pre-selected since, fo; the same level of investment, they would yield higher
NPVs than all other alternatives.
7.        The recommended rehabilitation and maintenance strategy was finally
selected among the four more promising alternatives analyzed, by matching
budget requirements with foreseeable availability.   Overall, the strategy
yields an NPV estimated at about US$.L billion for a discount rate of 12%.
Since this value is in line with the value assumed for the opportunity cost
of capital in Brazil, the strategy is economically justified.  Moreover, it
is 'also the preferred strategy with respect to the alternatives analyzed
since it is the one which maximizes the NPV under budget constraints.   For
the 1986-1990 period, the strategy emphasizes pavement strengthening ranging
from surface treatment or light overlays for low traffic sections in advanced
condition of deterioration to 10-12 cm overlays or even reconstruction, in
heavy traffic sections in regular/bad conditions.   Sections with traffic
volumes below 3,000 vehicles per day would mostly be maintained just through
routine maintenance operations if they are in good or regular conditions;
otherwise, light-to-medium strengthening would be carried out.   A limited
amount of light strengthening would also be undertaken to prevent
deterioration of road sections still in good condition, provided they carry
traffic volumes above 3,000 vehicles ver day (Table 1 of this Annex).



- 81 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
8.        Detailed information on the analysis of DER-SP's rehabilitation and
mainterAnce program is available in the Project File (Annex 8).
B.   First and Second Groups of Roads
9.        Complementary to the analysis developed for the preparation of the
four-year maintenance program, DER-SP identified a first and a second group
of roads to be included in the proposed project. The identification of these
groups reflects the recommended rehabilitation and maintenance strategy, both
in terms of traffic level and road condition.  For the first group of roads,
final engineering design was available at appraisal,and independent economic
analysis was carried out for each subproject included in the group, using
HDM-III.  The ERRs obtained (Table 3.4 of the report) are in line with the
ERR for the rehabilitation and maintenance program as a whole, confirming the
consistency between project identification criteria and the selected
investment strategy.
10.        Computer printouts with the details of the economic analysis are
available in the Project File (Annex 8).
C.   Basic Assumptions
1.       The following basic assumptions were used in the economic analysis:
(a) Traffic: annual growth rates were taken at 8% for cars and 7% for
all other categories of vehicles in the analysis at the network
level.
(b)  Vehicle Operating Costs:   Basic vehicles costs are presented in
Table 2 of this Annex.
(c)  Economic Costs:  Investment costs are based upon financial costs,
including 7% for engineering design and supervision, and 10% for
physical  c3ntingencies.    Investment,  maintenance  and  vehicle
operating costs are considered in constant June 1986 values, net of
taxes and other transfer payments. Fuel costs were taken at their
border prices plus distribution and retailer's charges.  Foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at 20% above the official exchange
rate.
October 1986



WZIL
STATE HIGIUATS _NANDENT FRMT - SAO PAULO
acoanaded Mbla_tamce Stratey
PAVEMENT                                  TWO LANE ROADS                                   FOUR AND SIX LANE ROADS
ADT       ADT         ADT        ADT        ADT       ADT       ADT        ADT        ADT        ADT
SURFACE    CONDITION
0 - 700  700 - 1500  1500-3000  3000-4500  4500-6000  6000 t      0-6000 6000-9000  9000-12000  12000<
GOOD              ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                                   LIGHT STRENGTHENING
ASFALT                                                    MEDIUM           HEAVY                MEDIUM                HEAVY
REGULAR           ROUTINE MAINTENANCE        STRENGTH.    STRENGTHENING         STRENGTHENING         STRENGTHENING
CONCRETE   _ __.
_ LIGHT            MEDIUMW                     HEAVY
STRENGTH.    STRENGTHENING               STRENGTHENING                    STRENGTHENING              N.A.
GOOD                ROUTINE MAINTENANCE       MEDIUM
STRENGTH.         N,A.
SURFACE     REGULAR             ROUTINE MAINTENANCE      MEDIUM             HEAVY                           N.A.
TREATMENT                                               STRENGTH.        STRENGTHENINO
MAD           LIGHT    MEDIUM            HEAVY
STRENGTH.  STRENGTH.     STRENGTHENING             N.A.
NOTES: Light pavement strengthening equivalent to 3-6 cm overlay, Including base strent6ening with surface treatment.
Medium pavement strengthening equivalent to 6-10 cm overlay.
Heavy paveomnt strengthening equivalent to 10-12 cm overlay.
ADT - 1985.
Sobrce: DER-SP
July 1986



-83 -                                      ANNEX 6
Table 2
STAIM RIATS VAIM              ?EUr - SA PAULO
(Cos" in Crus dc a*t Jis. 1966 price.)
Passenger                   Medium       Reavy        Truck
Financlal Costs                  Cars         Buses        Trucks        Trucks    Cobination
NEW Vehicle                    48,600.00   776,000.00   247,458.00   432,245.00   740,716.00
Cost/Time                         348.00      2,691.00     2,691.00      2,691.00     3,329.00
Maintenance (labor cost/hr)       100.00         84.00        84.00         84.00        84.00
Crew (cost/hr)                      0.00         11.10         18.00        18.00         18.00
Passenger (cost/hr)                 0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Cargo (cost/hr)                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Annual Overhead (2)                18.00         15.00         16.00        20.00         20.00
Interest Rate (S)                  45.00         45.00        45.00         45.00        45.00
Economic Costs
New Vehicle                    29,646.00   628,560.00   190,543.00   332,829.00   570,351.00
Cost/Time                         237.00      1,830.00     1,830.00      1,830.00     2,264.00
Maintenance (labor cost/hr)        60.00         50.40        50.40         50.40         50.40
Crew (cost/hr)                      0.00          6.66        10.80         10.80         10.80
Passenger (cost/hr)                 0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.0o
Cargo (cost/hr)                     o.oo          0.00         0.oo          0.00         0.00
Annual Overhead (2)                18.00         15.00         16.00        20.00         20.00
Interest Rate (2)                  12.00         12.00        12.00         12.00        12.00
Source: DER-SP
July19861



- 84 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
STATI HIG61AYS  AT PROJC  - SA  PADLO
Project NMWito2ing
1.         The project would be monitored through quarterly progress reports
and through, at least, two semi-annual meetings between representatives of
DER-SP and the Bank.
2.            DER-SP would submit quarterly progress reports, in a format
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide the following information:
Highway Rehabilitation Program
(a)  list  of  subprojects  in  the  design  or  implementation  E  ge,
indicating contract information and status of implementation in
physical and financial terms;
(b)  sumary tables indicating progress versus targets, and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c)  nerrative summary highlighting problems encountered and actions
taken or proposed.
Equipment Rehabilitation Program
(a)  status of  identification of spare part needs, obtaining price
quotations and purchase orders;
(b)  status of rehabilitation of units; and
(c)  records of purchase contracts and disbursements.
Trainlng Program
(a)  smmary of activities related to the four key components of the
program;
(b)  assessment of the consultant's reports, progress on consultant's
activities, areas requiring attention and action;
(c)  timetables for training courses, seminars and other activities,
with critical assessment of progress against set targets;
(d)  summary  of  training-related  expenditures  with  reference  to
Statement of Expenditures according to categories established in
cost tables (Table 4 of Annex 4);
(e) minutes of meetings of the Training Steering Committee; and



- 85 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
(f) narrative description of status of the program, difficulties
encountered and recommendations for remedial actions.
Technical Assistance
(a) assessment of the progress being made under each study;
(b) summary of consultants' progress reports and critical assessment of
whether the studies are on the right track versus their original
objectives; and
(c) contract information including expenditures and disbursements.
3.         Furthermore, each quarterly report should contain:  (a) a summary
table indicating, item-by-item, the appraisal estimates of costs versus
expenditures and loan disbursements as at the end of the reporting period,
and the balance of project loan in accordance with the respective loan
categories; and (b) a summary of key loan covenants and their status of
compliance.
4.         In order to monitor the progress of project objectives and provide
an opportunity for extensive dialogue between representatives of DER-SP and
the Bank, at least two semi-annual meetings would be held.
(a) At the first quarter of each year, the progress made during the
previous year would be reviewed with regard to:
- physical and financial status of DER-SP's highway rehabilitation
program versus original targets, including the component financed
under the project;
- status of development and extent of application of the PMS in
developing annual and pluriannual programs, and the application
of agreed economic evaluation methodology;
- methodologies used and criteria applied for investment decisions
for undertaking other types of road investments, such as new
roads, and expansion of highway capacity;
- implementation status of other project components such as
equipment rehabilitation, training program, and the studies under
the technical assistance;
- review of the impact of institutional reforms, the status of the
management study and its recommendations, the effect of the
changes  introduced  to  routine  maintenance  operations  and
axle-load control; and
- review of the administration of contracts and Statement of
Expenditures.



-86-                               ANN-  7
Page 3 of 3
(b) During the third quarter of each year, the primary focus vould be
upon the next year's program with a review of:
- DER-8P's rolling four-year budget and physical program,
considering the level of overall investment and priorities of
the various components;
- evaluation criteria used for Investment decisions;
- the adequacy of counterpart funding for the project components;
- DER-SP's detailed program for the continued operation of PMS and
subproject evaluation; and
- status of loan covenants.
October 1986



- 87 -                            Annex 8
BRAZIL
STaU EZONITS         I111P      cr - SAO PAUL
Selected Doceuats and Data bailable In the Project File
1.   Aide Hemoire - Project Identification Mission, October 1985.
2.   Aide Memoire - Project Preparation Mission, February/March 1986.
3.   Aide Memoire - Pre-Appraisal Mission, April 1986.
4.   Aide Memoire - Appraisal Mission, June/July 1986.
5.   Analises do Sector Transporte do Estado de Sao Paulo, April 1986.
6.   Directrizes para o DER - Secretaria aos Trarsportes, Departamento do
Estradas de Rodagem, July 1986.
7.   Novo Regulamento do Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Sao
Paulo, August 1986.
8.   Programa de Recuperacao da Rede Rodoviaria do Estado. de Sao Paulo -
Avaliacao Economica de Investimentos par& o Periodo 1986-1990, CNEC,
September 1986.
9.   HDM Computer Print-Outs on the Economic Analysis of the Highway
Rehabilitation Program, September 1986.
10.   Programa de Recuperacao de Pasvientos de 1986 - Avaliacao Economica dos
Trechos do Groupo I, CNEC, September 1986.
1'. HDM Computer Print-Outs, Economic Evaluation of Gronp I Roads,
September 1986.
12.   Organograms (Tentativo) da Divisao de Treinemento, DER-SP, September
1986.
13.   Minuta de Termos de Referencia para Servicios de Consultoria de
Treinamento de Pessoal do DER-SP, December 1986.
14.   Portaria SUP/DER-36 24-9-86 - Comissao de Planajamento e Integracao de
Treinamentos (CPIT).
15.   Portaria-SUP/DER-46 de 13-11-86 - Comit6 de Gerencia de Pavimentos.
16.   Portsria-SUP/DER-47 de 13-11-86 - Comit6 de Gerencia de Equipamentos.
January 1987



- 88 -                                           CHART 1
STAlE NISEAS NANiMW T iT   - S0 PAULO
Oilmtim of t. Stat  SecrarIlet of Tr_anot-1P
SECAETARY
transportattIon
Counc I
1         | ~Assistnce to
ton                 |tusnlcipalltls
Legal  Numn          Opratlons      I Sector               ~~~Program                  T ransport
Resources    Administratlon    _Pan g .  __   lmpleman-   Projects   Pol icy       PublIc
tation and                    and        Transpor-
tonitoring                 Planning        tation
Administration                                                   _   L_ -------           -          -    .- .
L               C       I ;_ _ _ __TTEES]
e         |lhrso      I |  G   tIr i Cuxiunicatlons
CORPOAT IONS                                         A UTOMIUS OEPARTMENTS
PEPASA  ASP        ROAS DEPT.       AIR TRANSPOR. DEPT.1   WATERWAY DEP.
OER-SP          D~~AESP
SSec Sretariat of Transprt, Seao Paulo
July 1986



- 89 -                                       CHART 2
STATE HISUAYS IWMS_ PRJECT - SAO PA"UO
Otuu,iumtiem   ot the State 1s bIprt.Mt-SP
SuperIntendnt
Cabinet              Public
_       _ _ _  ~~Relations
Internal                           Administrative
Audit                                 systems
Administration                             Operations                               Technical
Directorate                               Directorate                             Olrectorate
RegIonal
Divlsions
(13)
1i                                     I                                      I
Personnel              Budgeting            Residenclas      Residenclas              Planning          Design
Training                                      Routine        Contra-ted             L                            I
Maintenance         Works                    {.
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~(54)                                    (30)               Construto TtIc
|supplies               Acconting                                                                          .
jMalntenance       [qPnt
Source   DER-'SP
JuIy 1986



- 90 -                                         CHART 3
BRAZIL
STA1M HIWATS NWARAWE   PfJMT - S   PAiO N
IM     It i. of tl  Ww  Sfrtlwe of te State                 ftfM*4P
Suparlntendent
atwen"   -I_
Deputy Superintendent
Inter                  Cabi
Admlnlstration       Transportation           |00rations             PlanninS        Englneerlng
Directorate          Dlrectorate             Directorate           Dlrecorate       Directorate
Reglon      visons
RUM FUNCTIOS
Personnel          Transportatlon          Engineering Design         Planning       Engineering
Supplies           Traffic Regulations    Routine Maintenance       Institulnal    Constructlon
Coomnicoations     Terminals               Contract Supervislon       Asp ets        Maintenanco
Budgeting          Axl-Load Control                                Adm. Systems    Road Safety
Accounting                                                            Tralning       Equipment Ngmt.
Totls                                                                                Road Research
Source: DER-SP
July 1986



NOTES
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MAP SECTION



85.                                                                                                                             To Go'onia
* 0OC.
J. , a.                                                             . 
Cordo.Puo
MATO  GROSSO                                                                  :eond lm7
Joles b           OFe,rio r                 P  s  a
DO  SUL                           .       Po meiro dOeste                                  Votupoonn/go
DO              SUl           .,.                                                                                  ;o                                        ' '
jz                    :                                    QTonobi       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nova Graneada
?o Conipo arancio    0Pereito sorreto    FNhoo eorq  Monte 4Mro2i                                               QIiro'
Andrgdrno~~~~~~~                                               Macco      a nal    Apiotia.1'  
to Compo GandB                                                                                   t  .'k .M u         i          c io J     o0
AmlrardmnoO                                                                              /         \          Monte A2ul Poulis
'  "                     \      8u ilomoO    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Joseh Bonifcle.   jNw    lK ;&
'             ~~~Merond6potis°    f   f     iUrovpe /- 
Droreno°AoJ9"r/uei''jPtilt,                                                                 c pron'o  -   -.  c
SP-300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IIT.pi Po-Asto                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Novo Horizonte
P.O.   PrI  'coem        '-,  -                                                0 * -'topc
Jynqveirdpol.s                                             Pro
0~~~~~~
, ./  es      'Prs,del'e Venseabu.,                     .-    N,2o*                                                                           .
-22-                           o                     'rs~, 8ernor                r     es z;         /                '.|                         S      P.00ll      
P c            Epit6               -- co   Morbnopolls                        .  OPr,mpelPres.den.e Po!e;
To C.,W   G,,d,,  0                                         i0          - .C5
Osold. Cruzo/'
22' ~      ~        #                      *I/g9|tFdo-yR                                          oul                            WX*>'(
tePe,~6  ~R6isch  t6                  McGlti         ~         of
M.ronte do Poronoponeno°                PIS"pouinbo~            i
XF~~~~~                                                        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RR KsPcroG9UO.  Poub,sto  J    Dovrtrno,v P.au.mnga0o  Pedemcine.to
lPfft;/                              ;                          ~~~~~~~~                                                                ~~/- ,    -~  '.," agsdos°, )
CniMcta      j  ->_-sto
PcI  ,Ix   ~~   -~:Sno Coin do                o  o
.  '                    .          %CI~~~~~~~~uriohos |'{ tr    e
Ths nuop has been pYepaed by The Wrn   Banks 5t eSW .raty for th Coeen0ee of                                                                       '' 'Avwrw
th readess and is escAmmy fora t evina use of The Wofk Bank nt and tenaw-
Fnance Cooraa bon The denA0fhss used aend hIt bowdens sMon on this map do not Pl.r                                                                               '
A", onh  the Oart ot rhe VAd BE and the tvemabaon  FWnce COrporaton. anyn   ,enat
on the a slaow of any te,,ntoV O, any encbwseent or acctsolanc of uer bmdnes
L_~5                                                                    _                                                                     -.
\_ iM --k ,^ r > '-
VENEUEL \.   F->Brosilio                                                                                                                                  '7
~~~ i?  80t    *t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  '                                                                                   )+' ~~~~~~~~~~~Apoun7-
z    .                (O'                 fSP'AULO                                                                          KILOMETERS
uJ    'CHnt             *xA>GUAL              "I      _          -                                          0       20       40       610     SO       100
O  j   \          t      t           J          o:1. A .-/ .*                                   0            20            40            60
+  / If  ARGENTINA  '          ' /-'; f- 3'P                                                 R                MILES
S~                                                                                                                                                                       T [  \  o CUtihbl
I   ,   ,    X   : URUGUAY                            _____________________________________________________________A                                  C



f   -                                                    |    _   ___        _ _ _   __            _  _~~~~~--   4l  IBRD 19794
BRAZIL
R'QJ '}''X  /i°9aroowpXSTATE OF SAO PAULO                                                                                       
*   s o^topoils      sSTATE HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
\    \ rp9             0 ~~Pereulrzov                                                                 HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROGRAM:.
\                                   -        ~~~~~~~~~GrouplI Roads
fi   .   .            <                                                  -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Group 11 Roads
'18 . o                  °Soo Jottuim do Barti   ' I                                                        EXISTING HIGHWAY NETWORK:
\    9-           E>Orlontbo      :      PotrsgPu                                                       Toll Roads
\ '\  MorroArucloO   -      o . N°soron90q<                                                                 Federal Roads
;ii5,p>    > ¢   1  >  ptcXls  18                                            _       ~~~~~~~~~~State Roaids
'  Pionquirps ^    Pontal >°  .ard tmoPotl.                                                         State Capital
ro     Mot0Srroib°                 ieroPrt                                                                      Cities and TowNns
*-   Monte At      ointo   Q,   Riei6 Pm                                                                      State Bcundaries
-o 0   ..d >bobcobc            .        ... .         .. T     opr \ o o Jorio dbl Rei
< *  °TorluoringoGQrii   Yirnbo  SrnV_bo\  o ^° X  i .  %         ~        --      Internotional &-undaries
To"ri Mtngo        ii6  sd |                                Ctnd w 
\0 i     X           | ion~~scto Rdo            ?i&  xSo Jos6 do RiO Pttrdo
:Ug   oit    ^ tkssorioO   8 SttntoCruz;   °;Vorgem ren  ct. o Sul
)r  \     %tm   lh Os.ro Santo do Pmhol
W--ntJou   Broteiso   ~~~  ~ WW         SP-191         
D,1-> ot)is CormnNfs\.                             F        \0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~(t,                                  Sf   Neq  ,f                                          ;vl
>.,~~~~~PT                                               -4mp orocor -p   /,rtl   -~ Bcur%C)Boncc8 Prab
50 >, \ -_ _ _ / Sdo B~-0                                                                        Lae"nraJ  
, Coo      nohto   ,C pwtr)                                                                                                                       24__
j r   Mdrrotub--
T~~ $OC tusdo



