Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16026
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
(LOAN 2830-BR)
September 24, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Cruzado Cz$, New Cruzado NCz$, Cruzeiro Cr$, Real R$
(July each year)
1986  IUS$  =   Cz$    13.66
1987  1US$  =   Cz$    39.23
1988  1US$  =   Cz$    262.01
1989  1US$  =   NCz$  2.83
1990  1US$  =   Cr$    62.2
1991  1US$  =   Cr$    312.7
1992  1US$  =   Cr$    3476
1993  1US$  =   Cr$    55676
1994  1US$  =   R$       0.90
1995  1US$  =   R$       0.92
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of the Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT                Average Daily Traffic
DER-SP             Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Sao Paulo
(Sao Paulo Road Department)
DERSA              Desenvolvimento Rodoviario S.A. (Road Development S.A.)
DNER               Departamento National de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Road Department)
HDM III Model      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model III
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI                International Roughness Index
NPV                Net Present Value
SAC                Sistema de Administracao da Conservacao
(Maintenance Management System)
SF                 Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de Sao Paulo
(Secretariat of Finances of the State of Sao Paulo)
ST                 Secretaria dos Transportes do Estado de Sao Paulo
(Sao Paulo Secretariat of Transport)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
(LOAN 2830-BR)
Table of Contents
Preface..
Evaluation  Summary  .....................................................                                                                 ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .................................................   2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................5
D. Project Sustainability ................................................7
E. Bank Performance .................................................                                                           8
F. Borrower Performance ................................................9
G.  Assessment of Outcome .......9........................................9
H.  Key Lessons Learned ............................................... 10
Part H: Statistical Tables
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments ................................................                                            12
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans   ................................................                                              13
Table 3.   Project Timetable ................................................                                                  14
Table 4.   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................. 14
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............................................                            15
Table 6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................                            ......................... 15
Table 7.   Studies included in Project ...............................................                                         16
Table 8A. Project Costs ................... 17
Table 8B. Project Financing ................... 17
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................                                                             18
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ............................ 19
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................                                                            19
Table 12. Resources: Missions ............................ 20
Appendix:
Location Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
[LOAN 2830-BRI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the State Highway Management Project,
Sao Paulo (Brazil), for which Loan 2830-BR in the amount of US$174 rmillion equivalent was approved on
June 9, 1987 and made effective on June 16, 1988.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, one year after the original Closing Date of December
31, 1994. For macro-economic reasons, and at the Government's request, US$31.75 million was canceled
from the loan amount on May 23, 1995, at the same time the Bank extended the Closing date from
December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1995.
Gerard Liautaud, Senior Highway Engineer, LAlIU, prepared this ICR. Gobind T. Nankani, Asif
Faiz, and Orville Grimes are the country Director, Division Chief, and Project Adviser responsible for this
report. The task manager for project appraisal was Otto Raggambi, while the supervising Director,
Division Chief and Project Adviser were Robert Picciotto, Miguel Martinez, and Per Fossberg,
respectively. Task managers during project implementation were: 0. Raggambi (1988-89), J.C. Sallier
(1990-91), J. Cellier (1992-93), and G. Liautaud, (1994-95). The Division Chiefs were respectively: M.
Munasinghe (1988-89), G. Nankani (1990-91), A. Faiz (1992-94), A. Sanchez (1994-95), and A. Faiz
(1995-96).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mnission on December 1, 1995
and was completed in July 1996. It is based on documents in the project file and information provided by
the Borrower which also prepared its own evaluation of the project. The Borrower's report was received
on July 1, 1996. The Borrower provided no comments on the ICR.
Vice President:      Shahid Javed Burki
Director:            Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief:      Asif Faiz
Task Manager:        Gerard Liautaud






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
[LOAN 2830-BRI
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
This was the twelfth highway Loan made by the Bank to Brazil; prior to it, eleven Loans
totaling about US$1.3 billion had been made for the Brazilian road subsector. The first four highway
projects spanned the period 1968-1975, and included the expansion and upgrading of the federal road
network. These projects resulted in the construction and paving of about 6,000 km of trunk highways.
In 1975, the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR) set the basis for Bank involvement in road
maintenance and rehabilitation of the federal highway system, which continued in 1978 and 1984
through the Sixth and Seventh Highway projects (Loans 1557-BR and 2446-BR). Between 1976 and
1982, three Bank loans helped to finance the upgrading of about 20,000 km of feeder roads, including
the construction and improvement of nearly 500 bridges, in all five regions of the country. Although
some of the earlier loans helped to improve roads and strengthen road maintenance management in
many states, the state of Sao Paulo benefited little because most of its arterial roads were under state
jurisdiction and only a small portion, about 6%, was under federal control. With this Loan the Bank
became directly involved, for the first time, with a Brazilian State Highway Agency, and supported a
major state road rehabilitation program including institutional strengthening.
Project Objectives
The main objectives of the project were to improve the condition of the road infrastructure in
the state of Sao Paulo, and to further develop the highway administration system, thus ensuring that the
state's dominant mode of transport would function efficiently, saving users cost and time. To achieve
these objectives, the project included (i) strengthening of about 5,100 km of paved state roads, (ii)
rehabilitation of maintenance equipment, (iii) training, and (iv) technical assistance on transport policy,
planning and operations, and for highway management and road research.
To promote the achievement of project objectives, special loan covenants put particular
emphasis on three points: (i) the need to improve routine maintenance through the development of a
comprehensive maintenance management system, and the promotion of maintenance by contract; (ii) the
need to control vehicle axle-loads through the establishment of permanent and mobile weighing
stations, and the subsequent assessment of the impact of weighing on the condition of the network; and
(iii) the need to prepare annual and multi-year road expenditure programs in accordance with sound
engineering and economic principles.
Project objectives and the covenants that promoted them remained substantially unchanged
during project implementation, reflecting the Borrower and the Bank's intentions to foster increased
efficiency in the delivery of public road services.



Implernentation Experience and Results
The project was successful in achieving its physical objectives, but less so in achieving its
institutional goals. Almost 4,000 km of paved state roads were rehabilitated, nearly 80% of the project
target. This, together with additional road strengthening operations performed by DER-SP on its own,
helped to reduce the roads in poor or critical condition from almost 40% to 6% of the network.
Results in reaching institutional objectives were mixed.  The project helped to set up an
efficient and dynarnic training center in Campinas with appropriate methodologies and motivation. Yet,
training of personnel was done in only 4 regional districts and 44 municipalities, instead of the 14
districts and 200 municipalities planned. A computerized maintenance management system (SAC) has
been installed in all DER-SP districts. This has helped to improve planning and execution of routine
maintenance by force account. Moreover, almost 50% of the total length of the network is now
maintained by contract, compared with 5% when the project began. Although with considerable delay,
the foundation has been laid for the institutionalization of a pavement and bridge management system.
A survey of the condition of state highways and a representative sample of the bridges was carried out,
and can now be used for better planning and prioritizing of investments. Finally, a revised and updated
transport sector planning system was set up at the Transport Secretariat, including installation of
relevant computer programs and training of the necessary staff.
The project fell short of achieving two of its objectives: (i) enforcement of axle-load
regulations, which was ineffective as controls were carried out only sporadically, and (ii) appropriately
funding highway expenditures, which was not periodically reviewed to ensure compliance with sound
economic policies and criteria. Regarding enforcement of axle load regulation, ineffectiveness was
largely due to inadequate management and maintenance of weighing stations as well as to Government
lack of commitment towards that policy. Preference was given to designing rehabilitation works with
due consideration given to axle overloading. This policy generally resulting in reduced total transport
costs. Regarding appropriate allocations for highway expenditures, computerized evaluations (using the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model, HDM III) were performed at the network level twice
between 1986 and 1996: once before and once immediately after project implementation. However, the
effects of this exercise on overall funding were negligible.
At Closing, total project costs were about US$363 million, compared with the US$405 million
estimated at appraisal. The lower costs resulted mainly from reducing project targets. The actual cost
of rehabilitation works were about US$88,000 per kum, 38% higher than estimated (US$65,000). The
project was to be financed 43% by the Bank and 57% by the Government; the final figures were 36%
and 64% respectively. Disbursement of Loan proceeds started slowly, rose encouragingly between
June 1989 and June 1991 when they reached 90% of appraisal targets, and lagged from then on.
For the most part, project implementation proved difficult. Start-up was late by one-and-a,-half
years, and implementation was nearly five years behind the original schedule (while the SAR scheduled
the completion of both the rehabilitation works and technical assistance for the end of 1990,
implementation of these components was only completed at the end of 1995.). The Borrower's
implementation schedule at appraisal was far too optimistic and not consistent with historical evidence
available for projects in Brazil.  The key factors that affected implementation were: initial
administrative delays due to a change in Government in 1987, resulting in a late approval of the Loan
by the State Assembly; in 1991, lack of counterpart funds and late payments to contractors; in June
1993, the enacting of a new procurement law which considerably delayed contracting; in June 1994,
the reforms introduced by the Plano Real and in December 1994 another change in government.



iv
The Bank threatened to suspend disbursements twice when implementation lagged because of
lack of counterpart funds. Although difficult to foresee at appraisal, the economic difficulties of the
early 1990s considerably affected the project.  Also, the Bank incorrectly assessed project risks,
overdesigned the technical assistance component (not less than twelve and often complex studies were
scheduled to be performed) and underestimated the time it took to carry out the project. Between 1989
and 1993, the Bank management team in charge of the project changed four times, and supervision
missions visited Sao Paulo only once a year when more intense supervision was advisable, particularly
when counterpart funding became an issue.
The rate of implementation of the rehabilitation works was affected most by the lack of
counterpart funds, especially between 1991 and 1994. Still, by the end of 1993, 100% of the physical
targets could have been reached had the Borrower paid contractors on time, and had the rehabilitation
works been given higher priority; instead, the government decided to engage in a paving program.
Delays with the institutional development component were essentially due to low commnitment
to reform on the part of the executing agency. Without Bank involvement, it is more than likely that
parts of the training program, as well as the institutionalization of the pavement and bridge
management system, would not have taken place.
Yet, though implementation took eight years to complete rather than five as anticipated, and
despite shortcomings, the project can be rated as on the whole satisfactory and sustainable.  The
economic returns for the rehabilitation works are high, and there is a maintenance policy now in place
which focuses on a large concession program and on contracting routine maintenance with funds
secured from tolls. The training center in Campinas is likely to remain active, and regular network
condition surveys are programmed to improve planning. Moreover, the structure and role of the Roads
Department are being redefined in the context of the State Reform initiatives, and reductions in
personnel have already been started.
Key Lessons Learned
The main lessons drawn from the project are:
* the importance of predicting financial difficulties due to macro-economic instability, high
inflation and poor sector performance. Project designers should assess financial risks to
the same degree as any other project risk and take them into account in defining project
scope and implementation schedules;
* the importance of avoiding an excessive number of studies and/or overwhelming technical
assistance, taking into consideration government  commitment to reform,  absorptive
capacity of the executing agency, as well as the limited capacity and resources of the Bank
to effectively supervise the technical assistance components; such aspects shoula be
considered explicitly up front;
* the importance of continuity, both of government and Bank staff in charge of the project; in
this particular case, their absence bears a share of the responsibility for the difficulties
experienced by the project;



v
* the importance of relating the frequency of supervision missions to the difficulties
developed by the project, rather than to a predetermined standard; and
* axle-load control: on strong pavements and good road condition, enforcement of axle load
regulations using obsolete technology (static and manually-operated weighing stations) may
not be an appropriate policy. Worldwide experience suggests that economic gains from
overloading generally exceed total economic maintenance costs. New instruments, both
fiscal and economic, that change behavior instead of enforcement policy should be used.
With advanced technology such as weigh-in-motion and automatic vehicle identification,
objectives can be met if they are supported by a sensible policy framework.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT - SAO PAULO
rLOAN 2830-BR1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project was to provide support to the state of Sao Paulo to improve
the condition of the state's road infrastructure over a four-year period and to further develop the
highway administration system to ensure that the State's dominant road transport mode would achieve
increased efficiency in terms of transport costs and time savings. More specifically, and in order to
achieve this objective, the project was designed to support: (i) a road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance component of the expenditure program of the State Road Directorate (DER-SP); and (ii)
policies and measures to encourage DER-SP and the State Secretariat of Transport (ST) to plan,
implement, and evaluate more efficiently the transport program of the State. Accordingly, the project
consisted of the following four components: (a) civil works for the strengthening of about 5,100 km of
paved state roads with associated consultant services for engineering designs and construction
supervision, (b) rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment; and (c) technical assistance for studies
related to state transport policies, planning and operations well as highway management and research.
2.     These objectives reflected clear agreements reached between the Borrower and the Bank, and
were consistent with the Government's macro-economic policy, supported by the Bank's country
assistance strategy, to foster economic development and to increase efficiency in the delivery of public
services. In addition, and although earlier Bank loans had assisted several states to strengthen road
maintenance management, this would be the first time that the Bank would support a major state road
rehabilitation program including the institutional strengthening of a state highway agency. Improved
highway management practices thus developed were expected to be extended to other states and
municipal road authorities. This transfer of experience would coincide with the Bank-supported fiscal
and administrative decentralization efforts initiated by the Federal Administration. These objectives
remained substantially unchanged during project implementation.
3.    The project design, entailing technical assistance, institutional strengthening, and execution of
studies and civil works, was internally consistent although quite demanding for the executing agency
particularly with regard to the technical assistance component.  The range and complexity of the
studies included in that component, and the fact that they were scheduled to move forward
simultaneously on a broad front, proved out of proportion with the absorptive capacity of the transport
and road department. Also, the Borrower's level of commitment fell as implementation difficulties due
to counterpart funding and conflict between local legislation and Bank's procedures occurred, none of
which was correctly anticipated during the design stage. Expecting no special risks at inception, either
for counterpart funding or in terms of institutional constraints, the project design proved overly
optimistic in forecasting the pace and scope of implementation.



2
B.    Achievement of Objectives
4.     Transport Sector Policies. The technical assistance component of the project was formulated
to support sector policies and institution-building-oriented objectives of the Secretariat of Transport and
the Road Department. It included a number of studies to:
*  develop and implement an analytical framework to assist in setting adequate levels for the
road pricing elements;
*  assess Government's role in the regulation of inter-municipal passenger public transport
and recommend required adjustments to ensure suitable levels of service at competitive
rates;
*  implement a transport planning system for the formulation, analysis and monitoring of
transport program and policies;
*  refine and update the 1978 transport planning model incorporating modal-split, route
allocation submodels, and new estimates of elasticity;
e  prepare professional staff in systematic transport planning analysis, policy-formulation and
economic evaluation;
*  prepare institutional measures for improving coordination between the Secretariat of
Transport (ST) and other institutions involved in the management of road transport
operations;
*  assess highway subsectoral issues at federal, state and municipal levels, recommending
measures to ensure greater coordination; and
*  identify and analyze the impact of feeder roads on the economy and social structure of
communities.
5.    The objectives pursued under the transport sector policies component were substantially
achieved, although with considerable delay. Most of the studies were completed by the end of 1991
and led subsequently to important actions in the sector: (a) a policy of tolls on access-controlled
highways was set up which culminated in the preparation, in 1993, of an ambitious program of highway
concession covering about 25% of the total state network, whose implementation is about to start; and
(b) the inter-municipal bus transport system became totally deregulated in 1993.  The studies on
transport planning operations suffered considerable delays and it was not until the end of 1995 that an
updated planning system for the transport sector was designed and implemented within ST.
6.     On the other hand, and in order to adjust to changing circumstances, the study of highway
subsector coordination was canceled and transferred under the responsibility of DNER, as part of an
on-going federal highway rehabilitation project. The study was replaced with a traffic safety study
which was successfully carried out, including the revision of standards on traffic signs. Likewise, in
1988, soon after the project began, DER-SP and the Bank decided to limit the scope of the study on the
impact of feeder roads and to concentrate on the reclassification of the paved portion of that network.
Up to now, this reclassification has been only partially achieved.



3
7.    Although not specifically covered by any study, emphasis was placed during project preparation
and negotiations upon the necessity to evaluate the impact of axle weight control recently introduced by
ST in order to decide on further actions which would enhance the program's development. Axle weight
legislation was only partially enforced as weighing stations started to brake down as early as 1992.
Since then the stations have operated very sporadically. Apart from the tolled highways where axle
weight control has remained effective, the rest of the network is subject to overloading, although
rehabilitation designs do account for excess loading. Measures are now being taken to reinstate the
axle weight controls and 20 portable weigh bridges are being purchased with  their operation
contracted to a private firm.
8.    On the institutional side, the following targeted major objectives were unevenly achieved:
*   implement a more effective force-account routine maintenance management system,
including the rehabilitation of maintenance equipment and the setting up of an equipment
management system;
*  promote and intensify the participation of the private sector in the carrying out of
recurrent maintenance operations;
*   design and establish a pavement management system to assist with preparation and
implementation of multi-year road investment programs;
*   enhance DER-SP's capacity to undertake applied research, particularly in the field of low-
cost feeder road pavements;
*   review the organization of DER-SP and define a new structure better adapted to its future
role of planning, contracting and monitoring; and
* carry out an extensive and broad-based training program involving some 6,000 trainees
from the 14 regional districts and about 200 municipalities.
9.    Between 1989 and 1994, an appropriate computerized maintenance management system (SAC)
was installed in all regional districts to improve planning and execution of routine maintenance by force
account, including the preparation of a very practical manual on planning, budgeting and monitoring
methodologies. In parallel, the policy of maintenance by contract has been actively pursued, starting
with less than 1,000 km in 1989-90 and currently reaching about 9,000 km, i.e., half of the total length
of the paved state network. The average cost of recurrent maintenance decreased dramatically from a
high of US$20,000 per km in 1989-90, to a current figure of about US$5,000. As the trend towards
private sector participation became clearer, the need to carry out a comprehensive equipment
management system lost intensity and was finally canceled.  Similarly, out of the 50 pieces of
equipment which were in need of rehabilitation, only 14 were repaired as investments for that purpose
seemed inappropriate.
10.   The setting up of a pavement management system has been a long and painful process. After
many years of discussions with the Bank on procurement procedures including the scope of Terms of
reference and selection of consultants - which incidentally may explain why the Planning Department
decided in 1992-93 to carry out with local resources a preliminary visual survey of the condition of the
network followed by a capacity increase study - a comprehensive network inventory financed under the



4
project was undertaken in 1995. It included not only a full study of the structural capacity, surface
condition, and roughness of the entire paved network, but also the inspection of a representative sample
of the bridge network.  These surveys now constitute the foundation of a pavement and bridge
management system, and their results are being processed using the HDM model to elaborate a cost-
effective program of road investment for the near future. Road research, on the other hand, was
contracted to the University of Sao Paulo and a useful manual prepared on feeder road design and
construction.
11.   Regarding the training component and notwithstanding the fact that it was a much too
ambitious and unrealistic program, the excessive delay which occurred between the first (diagnostic)
phase and the implementation phase, resulted in limiting the scope of the training to a few well-selected
regional districts and municipalities. Instead of the 14 regional districts and 200 municipalities initially
contemplated, training covered only 4 districts and 44 municipalities. Despite the limited number of
persons trained, the project led to the establishment in Campinas of a very efficient and dynamic
training center with appropriate methodologies, whose breadth of action now extends far beyond the
limit of the state. This training center provides support to other road agencies, particularly those in the
south or in the north-east which are currently implementing Bank-financed rehabilitation projects.
12.   The management study which the project expected to carry out in order to review  the
institutional requirements of the intermediate and upper structure of DER-SP never materialized
officially. The technical assistance contract finally prepared in 1994, and to which the Bank had no-
objection, was never contracted because the authorization of the Planning and Finance Secretariat was
never given. It simply occurred that DER-SP preferred to assign to an in-house Comnmittee the task of
redefining missions, responsibilities and structural organization. The process is still on-going with
personnel reduction being initiated, as part of the government's current reform program.
13.   Physical Objectives.   The objective set at appraisal for rehabilitating about 5,100 km of
important links of the state's road network was substantially achieved. At the Closing Date, almost
4,000 km of state roads were strengthened under the project, representing 80% of appraisal estimates.
In 1984, when the Government of the State of Sao Paulo approached the Bank to request its assistance
for its four-year road investment program, the state road network had already suffered almost a decade-
long neglect due to a severe cut-back in spending. This resulted in the need for urgent and extensive
strengthening works over some 6,000 to 7,000 of roads, i.e., nearly 40% of the total length of the
paved network. Today, and along with additional rehabilitation operations performed under DER-SP's
own maintenance program, the civil works financed under the project enabled the proportion of roads
in poor or critical condition to decrease from an initial figure of 40% to a mere 6%, as recorded by a
survey carried out in October-November 1995.
14.   Financial Objectives. The objective of supporting the Government's four-year road investment
program through a 43 % financing by the Bank was only partially achieved. At closing date, the Bank
had disbursed US$132 million out of the US$174 million originally anticipated. The state financial
crisis which started in 1991-92 and exacerbated in 1994, when the new stabilization plan was
implemented by the federal Government, resulted in a severe shortage of counterpart funds which in
turn caused outstanding debt to contractors to rise to nearly US$60 million, representing essentially
price adjustment corrections for on-going contracts. As a result, the final cost of the project at the
Completion Date was about US$363 million, of which the Government financed almost 64% instead of
the 57% initially foreseen. Also, and because of the above, the financial unit costs incurred in carrying
out the rehabilitation program came out 38% higher than originally expected. Cost overruns under
more normal circumstances would have been kept to about 12%.



5
15.   Economnic Results. The economic analysis carried out at appraisal, using the HDM III model,
indicated that the highway rehabilitation component, which represented almost 96% of the total base
cost of the project, yielded an estimated internal economic rate of return (IERR) of about 45 %. An ex-
post economic analysis was performed on a sample of the subprojects forming the first three groups of
rehabilitation works, also using the HDM III model. As shown in Table 9, and despite some cost
increases, the re-estimated IERRs do not differ significantly from the appraisal estimates, ranging
between 34% and 98%, and averaging about 60%, therefore remaining at highly satisfactory levels.
These positive results are further supported by the improvement in the condition of the road network,
as shown in Table 9-B. Between appraisal and to-day, the percentage of roads in good condition has
increased from  29% to 84%, while the proportion of roads in poor condition has dramatically
decreased from 22% to 6%. The average roughness measured on the paved network at the end of 1995
was about 2 IRI, a figure which is comparable to that recorded on well-maintained networks in the US
or in Europe.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.   There were no major changes in project scope or objectives. However, the following minor
adjustments were made through two loan amendments: (i) reallocation of the proceeds of the loan, in
December 1990, which consisted essentially in transferring the unallocated amount to civil works
categories and in canceling or substantially reducing the amounts initially allocated to items which
would no longer need large financing (such as engineering designs and works supervision performed
in-house, and rehabilitation of equipment and research); (ii) in May 1995, and upon the Government's
request, a one-year extension of the Closing Date, with cancellation of US$31.7 million from the loan
and minor reallocation of the proceeds.
17.   Several external and internal factors affected project implementation, from  inception to
completion. Listed as follows in chronological order, these factors are hereafter placed into context to
show their impact upon the achievement of project objectives and implementation and to explain the
delay of almost five years which, in the aggregate, they caused:
*   the November 1986 election followed by the installation of a new administration, in March
1987;
*   from mid-1991 to mid-1993, conflicts between Bank procurement guidelines for
consultants and local legislation, which caused intensive discussions between DER-SP and
the state's Tribunal de Contas;
*   as from the end of 1991, the beginning of government's financial difficulties, and lack of
availability of counterpart funds;
*   in June 1993, the enactment of a new Brazilian procurement law;
*   as from February 1994, implementation of a new stabilization program,- under the Real
Plan;
*   by the end of 1994, new elections followed by a change in administration; and



6
throughout implementation, lack of continuity in project management and in the staffing of
the coordination unit.
18.   After an initial delay of nearly one and a half years due to local problems (review of the
proposed project by a new administration, followed by late approval of the loan by the State's assembly
and federal Congress), the project effectively started in July 1988 with the launching of the first group
of road rehabilitation works over a length of about 670 km. Six months later a second group, three
times as large, was tendered out with activities in the field proceeding at an outstanding pace, enabling
disbursements to reach, by June 1991, 90% of appraisal estimates. At that point, i.e., three years after
the effective start of the project, almost 2,000 km of paved roads had been strengthened with 1,600 km
yet in the process of being rehabilitated. Also, by the end of 1991, most of the studies related to
transport sector policy, as well as the other studies on traffic safety, feeder roads reclassification, and
diagnosis of training needs, had been completed.
19.   As from the middle of 1991, lack of counterpart funds became a serious problem, leading to a
dramatic reduction in the pace of activities in the field and to arrears in payments to contractors. This
process culminated in about US$65 million in arrears by the end of 1991. The situation persisted until
mid-1992, when at the Bank's urging the State government re-started allocating sufficient resources to
the project. This enabled the arrears to drop by half, i.e., to about US$32 million, in October 1992.
Fulfillment of the Government's commitment to continue to provide adequate counterpart funds in 1993
ultimately enabled all arrears to construction firms to be paid by October 1993.
20.    By then, almost 3,500 km of rehabilitation works were completed while a fourth group of sub-
projects already identified by DER-SP and approved by the Bank, but still awaiting bidding, should
have already started. Progress, this time, was impeded not by the unavailability of local funds, but by
the enactment, in June 1993, of a new procurement law which slowed down bidding processes, and also
by the priority then given by ST to the paving of some 1,500 km of feeder roads in the state, which
absorbed all the capacity of the bidding department. Thus the tendering of the fourth group of sub-
projects was delayed by about six months. It was not until October 1993, while a Bank supervision
was in the field, that the invitation to bids was issued, with evaluation completed at the end of
December 1993.
21.    Hence, the project was stalled for nearly two years, with a lag of disbursement which increased
from barely 10% in 1991 to almost 25% by the end of 1993. Over that period, the total disbursement
from the Bank amounted to only US$24 million when it should have two to three times this value, had
the pace of rehabilitation works observed between 1988 and 1991 been maintained. As an expression
of concern regarding the rather poor performance of the Borrower between 1991 and 1994, the Bank
twice threatened to suspend disbursements, the first time in August 1992, and the second time in
December 1993. Each time the Borrower expeditiously solved the issue.
22.   Regarding the institutional component, the same pattern of events occurred. There was a fairly
satisfactory start involving the carrying out of several studies including state road pricing, regulation of
intermunicipal passenger public transport, the first phase of transport planning and operation, traffic
safety, and the first phase of the training program with the diagnosis of training needs. There again but
for different reasons, this initial effort was not sustained. As from mid-1991 intense discussions took
place between DER-SP and the State's Tribunal de Contas regarding the legality of consultant
contracts, the latter claiming that consultant contracts should be awarded as provided by local
legislation on the basis of the lowest price and not on technical merits as stipulated in Bank guidelines.
Stemming from that, a long period of exchanges of correspondence between the Bank and DER-SP



7
occurred regarding procedures and tender documents submitted to the no-objection of the Bank
including short lists, proposal evaluation procedures, terms of reference, and form of contracts which
systematically did not comply with Bank guidelines. The result was that by the end of 1993 only 35%
of this component, in financial terms, had been carried out.
23.    At the beginning of 1994, there still was hope to complete the project and to deliver the
required results on time. The fourth group of rehabilitation works was anticipated to be contracted out
by March-April 1994, and had an expected completion date of December 1994, the Closing Date of the
loan. Also, practically all the prerequisites for contracting the technical assistance to complete the
remaining studies and training under the institutional component were fulfilled. But then, another
stumbling block in the way of progress arose from the seventh stabilization program decided by the
federal Government. The Real Plan, which started in February-March 1994 and became effective in
June 1994, caused DER-SP to consult with contractors and to re-negotiate contracts while it became
known that the Government owed some US$2 billion to the contracting industry, of which almost
US$700 million were debt arrears from DER-SP. It was not until June 1994 that the audit report for
1993 revealed that arrears to contractors, related mainly to the third group of rehabilitation works, had
reached almost US$70 million. Negotiations between the Government and contractors regarding these
debts literally brought the project at a standstill for the whole year.
24.   The end of 1994, while the Closing Date was fast approaching, coincided with another change
in Government. By then, civil works were completed at about 70%, with the institutional component
still trailing far behind original expectations. Following lengthy discussions between SEAIN and the
new Government, the request came from the Borrower for an extension of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1995 and for a cancellation of US$67 million from the project, including US$31.7
million from the loan amount.  The Bank agreed to the request for loan extension, given the
commitment expressed by the Borrower to allocate sufficient counterpart funds to the project and to
give high priority to the implementation of the remaining studies, particularly to the setting up of a
pavement and bridge management system as weli as to the completion of the transport planning system.
25.   The extension of the Closing Date enabled the project to achieve about 75% of appraisal
estimates and nearly 90% of the targets expected after loan restructuring, both under the physical and
institutional components. Out of the 37 contracts totaling about 860 km included in the fourth and last
group of rehabilitation works, only 16 contracts totaling 304 km were successfully re-negotiated with
the contractors and completed by December 31, 1995. Overall, 3,915 km out of the 5,100 km initially
contemplated were rehabilitated under the project. In the course of the last nine months a start toward
a pavement and bridge management system has been made, including the survey of the condition of the
entire state highway system and a representative sample of the bridge system. Within the Secretariat of
Transport, an updated planning system for the transport sector has been designed and structured with
relevant computer programs. Also, valuable training of personnel from four regional districts and 44
municipalities, covering maintenance activities, was carried out as planned on a pilot basis, and proved
highly satisfactory.
D.    Project Sustainability
26.    Civil works for road rehabilitation represented about 96%  of the total financial scope of the
project. Economic re-evaluation carried out for the portion of the network which was strengthened
showed that the ex-post internal economic rates of return are high, confirming that the project achieved
a very acceptable level of net benefits. In addition, a network survey undertaken at project completion



8
indicates that almost all of the backlog has been made up and that the excellent condition of the
network can be preserved through suitable routine and periodic maintenance operations only. These
factors associated with the favorable policy environment created by the Government over the last few
years: maintenance is increasingly being transferred and contracted to the private sector. The necessary
resources were recently taken "off-budget" and now come from the proceeds of tolls collected from
about 2,000 km of high intensity traffic roads operated by DER-SP. A vast follow-on program of
highway concessions covering almost 25% of the total length of the state network is being actively
prepared, with the first bidding processes already under way. Regarding institutional achievements, the
project helped strengthen DER-SP and ST in the areas of transport planning, road management,
including economic evaluation of investment programs. During the completion mission, DER-SP
expressed firm commitment to continue monitoring the network on a regular basis in order to update
and adjust programs and strategies, as necessary. There is also little doubt that the training center set
up in Campinas will continue to provide support to local staff and also - as is already occurring - to
other states, particularly towards the less developed state road agencies, in the Northeast of Brazil, for
example. All of the above suggest that there should not be a major risk for the reforms to be reversed.
However, it is too soon to come to a definitive judgment since much of the above achievements are due
not only to project actions but also to the macro-economic environment which is currently favorable.
For that reason, the sustainability was rated as uncertain.
E.    Bank Performance
27.   Project Identification and Preparation: Satisfactory. During the initial stages of project
identification and preparation, two major factors contributed to the Bank's involvement in the project:
(i) the Federal Government of Brazil was in the process of adopting a policy of decentralization in
general, and for the highway sector in particular, (ii) the Sao Paulo State Government, in its request for
Bank assistance, showed full commitment to the maintenance and rehabilitation of its road network and
to the development and coherent transport policies. The need to develop the institutional capabilities of
the States Road Departments and to help them effectively plan and use their revenues was correctly
perceived by the Bank as a sound project idea. An innovative idea also, since the project would be the
first State Highway project directly financed by the Bank. As such it was regarded as a pilot exercise in
a State where the political and economic context was most propitious for success. Moreover, the Bank
expected that the experience gained would provide guidance on ways to strengthen other future state
road projects. Preparation was thorough and responsive to the country and to the state's needs.
28.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory, but Shortconings. Project appraisal was also thorough and
included a good skill mix of engineers, an institutional specialist, and a procurement specialist.
Nevertheless, the Bank failed correctly to diagnose project risks, particularly counterpart funding and
the institutional capacity of DER-SP, although at the time of appraisal the State's creditworthiness was
good and the competence and motivation of the coordinating unit of the project were excellent. Unable
to foresee the adverse economic developments which beset the State as of 1991, as well as other
procurement complexities which occurred during project implementation, compounded by a decline in
Borrower commitment due to high administrative turnover, the Bank proved overly optimistic in
concurring with the Borrower's implementation schedule, while the technical assistance component
was expected to move simultaneously on too large a front. The project fell victim to the unfolding of
events and to the subsequent poor economic performance of the state, the optimistic predictions made at
appraisal were not borne out.
29.   Supervision:   Deficient.   The Bank (a) correctly identified problems throughout the
implementation period of the project, adequately reporting the progress (or lack thereof) achieved and



9
giving appropriate performance ratings; (b) showed flexibility in approving needed modifications,
particularly in the technical assistance component, including the granting of a one-year closing date
extension; and (c) exercised remedies when necessary, including two threats of suspension of
disbursement.  Nevertheless, Bank supervision efforts were generally deficient.  Total staff inputs
between 1988 and 1996 represented only 93 staff-weeks. Considering the loan amount and the lengthy
implementation period, these inputs were quite insufficient. Likewise, the actual time spent in the field
barely amounted to 12 staff-weeks over a 9-year period, i.e., 1.3 staff-weeks per year, which is grossly
inadequate. The insufficient time spent in the field was further aggravated by a lack of continuity of
Bank staff in charge of the project, task management and supervising chiefs having changed four times
between 1989 and 1993.
F.     Borrower Performance
30.   Preparation of the Project:  Satisfactory.  Fully committed to the project objectives, the
Borrower took all necessary actions for project preparation in an efficient and timely manner. All
technical, financial, economic and institutional aspects were thoroughly prepared by Government staff
without assistance from  foreign consultants.  Special mention should be given to the in-house
performance of the comprehensive economic analysis of the road rehabilitation program carried out in
1986, using the Bank's HDM-III Model.
31     Project Implementation: Deficient. Since one of the problems which most affected the rate
of implementation of the rehabilitation works between 1991 and 1994 was the unavailability and
untimely provision of counterpart funds, the Borrower's performance in that respect proved rather poor.
Already by the end of 1993, 100% of the physical target would have been achieved had the contractors
been paid on time and had procurement of the fourth group of works been given priority over a paving
program decided by the Government.  Regarding the institutional component, implementation was
delayed and objectives only partially achieved not because of the level of counterpart funds required, or
the inadequacy of technical assistance, but rather as a result of a declining level of commitment,
incapacity to resolve local procurement problems and ineffective project management. Just as was the
case for the Bank, project management and supervising teams changed four times during project
implementation.
32.    Compliance with Loan Covenants: Deficient. Compliance with contractual clauses and loan
covenants often left much to be desired. Amortizations were not paid on time, audit reports were
submitted late, legislation regarding vehicle weights and size limitations have not been satisfactorily
enforced, while payment of about US$58 million to contractors, as a result of monetary adjustments,
remain outstanding.  Also, annual highway expenditure and funding programs were submitted
sporadically, while progress reports were often transmitted with delay and never reached the quality
which was expected.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
33.   Overall rating: Partially Satisfactory. Even though implementation suffered major delays,
taking twice as long a time to complete as originally anticipated, and despite the shortcomings
described previously in the report, the project achieved most of its major objectives and may be rated
as partially satisfactory. The economic returns to be expected from the investments in rehabilitation are
high, and the maintenance policy currently in place focuses on a large concession program and on
contracting routine maintenance with funds secured from tolls. On the institutional side, the training
environment created in Campinas is likely to remain active, and is already expanding its activities



10
towards other road agencies.  DER-SP also seems committed to pursuing on a regular basis the
monitoring of the road network and to keep fully operational the pavement and bridge maintenance
management system established under the project. Finally, the structure and the role of DER-SP are
presently being redefined as part of the on-going state reform program, and down-sizing of the
organization has already started.
H.    Key Lessons Learned
34.   The main lessons drawn from the project are the following:
*   The economic stability and creditworthiness of the State of Sao Paulo, which were
excellent at project inception, fell to record lows during implementation. The difficulty of
predicting the occurrence of financial distress due to macro-economic instability, high
inflation and poor sectoral performance during project execution should prompt project's
designers to consider such risks and be more realistic in defining the scope of the project
and in scheduling the pace of implementation;
*   Insufficient provision of counterpart funds and late payments to contractors were at the
root of the long delay experienced in the achievement of the physical component. Projects
should only be financed in states which are committed to and are implementing sound
fiscal and administrative reforms.  Also, in order to reduce the impact of unreliable
counterpart transfers on project implementation, disbursements could be made in quasi-
tranches against eligible expenditures, only after compliance with agreed monitoring
indicators and targets;
*   The scope and number of studies included in the technical assistance program did not
properly account for the limited absorptive capacity and level of commitment of an
executing agency which is subject to frequent and profound staff turnover, nor did they
take into account the limited capacity and resources of the Bank to effectively supervise
this component. Also, the studies were designed to move forward all at once on too large
a front;
*   Lack of continuity of Government and Bank staff involved in the project accounts for part
of the difficulties experienced with project implementation;
*   Supervision missions should have been more intense and frequent throughout the
implementation period, and more particularly so when the project began to stall in 1991-
92; and
*  Enforcement of axle load regulations using obsolete technology (static and manttally-
operated weighing stations) may not be appropriate, particularly when pavements are strong
and in good condition. Worldwide experience demonstrates that economic gains from
overloading generally  exceed additional economic maintenance costs.   Instead  of
enforcement policy, new instruments, both fiscal and economic, that change behavior
should be used. With advanced technology such as weigh-in-motion and automatic vehicle
identification, objectives can be met when they are supported by a sensible policy
framework.



11
35.   Many of these lessons have been incorporated into the design and preparation of the subsequent
and now on-going state highway rehabilitation projects. In particular, more detailed and more realistic
implementation plans and monitorable indicators have been included; the number and scope of studies
have been reduced, and the emphasis has been placed on promoting maintenance by contract. Also,
simpler and more cost-effective network surveys are being used as a foundation for economic
evaluations, and in the design of priorities and multi-year programs. Moreover, project management is
being supported by the use of joint ventures of local and foreign consultants. Finally, more continuity
now exists in Bank staffing of project monitoring, from inception through implementation, and
supervision missions are occurring more frequently.






12
PART II: Statistical Tables






13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A: Achievement of: OSa                                                                            ;.              e          a         ae
Macroeconomic policies                                                                                                         x
Sector policies                                                                 x
Financial objectives                                                            x
Institutional development                                                       x
Physical objectives                                         x
Poverty reduction                                                                                                              x
Gender concerns                                                                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                                                                        x
Environmental objectives                                                                                                       x
Public sector management                                                        x
Private sector development                                  x
Other (specify)
-: ~~~~~~~~~~~~..      ...  :.-...:.-.                                                                       .   :. .   ..::.:. ::
~~~~ject  Sust~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iua~~~~~~~~~ity  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~::.:'> ~~~ ~      ~        .          ...........
...     ..   .             ,  L...... ...   .........................................       ..   . ....     .     .................. .......
x
C.-- Bank  P            ..... .a. ...... .. .                                 Sa.a or . .. .e. . .c
ldentification                                                                  x
Preparation assistance                                                          x
Appraisal                                                                                             x
Supervision                                                                                           x
P. Borrower Performance~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q . .. .
'B    n      e  f  r     n  e                                    .       . .:. .::4 4.                                 .    ................... ... ...... ........   ..........   .. ........ . ..........  ......................................
Preparation                                                                     x
Implementation                                                                                        x
Covenant Compliance                                                                                   x
::~~~~~~~~~~~. .- .. ..:                                           .. .  .         :.:-....
E  Assessment of OutoS                                                                                          e -at:ty
x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans (for the Road Subsector)
Loan               Purpose               Year of  Amount  Year of    Information Source
Title                                   Approval  US$ M    Closing
Prior Operations
567-Br    Highway Constr. & Paving          1968        26       1972   PPAR No 626
676-Br    Highway Constr. & Paving          1970       100       1976   PPARNo. 644
813-BR    Highway Constr. & Paving          1972        89      1977   PCR 05/30/78
854-BR    Highway Constr. & Paving          1972        51       1977   PPAR No. 2571
1075-BR   Rd Maint. & Rehabilitation        1975       110      1983    PCR 05/8/85
1207-BR   Feeder Rds Upgrading              1976        55      1984   PCR  06/14/85,  PPAR
09/23/86
1557-BR   Highway Maint. & Rehab            1978       114      1985   PCR   03/20/87,  PPAR
11/16/89
1730-BR   Feeder Rd Improvement             1979       110      1986   PCR   11/06/89,  PPAR
No. 9367
2061-BR   Highway Constr. &  Feeder Rd    1981         240       1988   PCR, PPAR
Improvement
2224-BR   Feeder Rds Improvement            1982       154       1989   PCR 03/31/93
2446-BR   Highway Maint. & Rehab            1984       210       1989   PCR 06/16/92
Subseguent Operations
3169-BR   Federal Highway Rehabilitation    1990       310      1996 a'  -
3547-BR   Santa Catarina State Highway    1992          50      1999 a,  -
Rehab
3548-BR   Alagoas State Highway Rehab       1992        38      1999
3713-BR   Piaui State Highway Rehab         1994        54      1999 al
3714-BR   Tocantins State Highway Rehab     1994        87      1999
3715-BR   Maranhao State Highway Rehab      1994        79       1999
Scheduled



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned                    Date Actual
Identification - Preparation                    10/85                          10/85
Initial Executive Project Summary            12/20/85                       12/20/85
Preappraisal                                  4/14/86                        4/14/86
Final Executive Project Summary                6/6/86                         6/6/86
Appraisal                                     6/17/86                           7/86
Negotiations                                    10/86                       12/15/86
Board Presentation                              12/86                         6/9/87
Signing                                          3/87                       12/11/87
Effectiveness                                    5/88                        6/16/88
Project Completion                            6/30/94                        6/30/95
Loan Closing                                 12/31/94                       12/31/95
Table 4: Loan Disbursement. Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96
Appraisal Estimate      16     31    51     76    105    133    156    170    174    142.2a'
Actual                  0      11    14.7   47.1   94.4   110.7  124.4  131.4  131.4  131.4
Actual as % of Estimate  0     35    29      62     90      83     80     77     76      92
Date of Final         March
Disbursement          1994
Upon Govermment's request and for macroeconomics reasons, US$31.75 million were canceled, May 23, 1995



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I - Key Implementation Indicators    Estimated Schedule          Actl Schedule
in SAR                            Estimated Schedule_Actual_Schedule
1. Highway Rehabilitation
a) Engineering
Group 1                  2/85 -10/86    9 months    2/86 - 10/86    9 months
Group 2                 11/86 - 10/87   12 months   11/86 - 12/87   13 months
Group 3                  3/87 - 2/88    12 months    6/89 - 6/90    12 months
Group 4                 11/87 - 10/88   12 months    10/92 - 3/93    6 months
Group 5                  7/88 - 4/89    10 months    10/93 - 3/94    6 months
Group 6                  1/89 - 12/89    12 months         canceled
b) Civil Works & Supervision
Group 1                  3/87 - 3/88    12 months    7/88 - 12/89    17 months
Group 2                 10/87 - 10/88   12 months    5/89 - 8/92    38 months
Group 3                  2/88 - 2/89    12 months   12/90 - 10/93   34 months
Group 4                 10/88 - 10/89   12 months    4/94 - 12/95    20 months
Group 5                  5/89 - 4/90    12 months          canceled
Group 6                  1/90 - 12/90    12 months         canceled
2. Equipment Rehabilitation        4/87 - 3/88    12 months   10/90 - 12/95   62 months
3. Training Program
a) Consultant Services         8/87 - 4/88    12 months    6/89 - 12/91    30 months
b) Training                    5/87 - 12/90    42 months    6/90 - 12/95    66 months
4. Technical Assistance (Studies)  5/87 - 12/90    42 months   12/89 - 12/95   72 months
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I- Key Operating Indicators in SAR  Estimated           Actual              (%)
1. Rehabilitation Works               5100 km             3915 km             (77%)
2. Equipment Rehabilitation           59 units             20 units           (34%)
3. Training Program                   44 Regional Districts  4 districts      (10%)
200 Municipalities    44 Municipalities  (22%)
4. Technical Assistance               12 studies           10 studies          (83%)



17
Thble 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose as derined at appraisal/redefined                 Status                      Impact of Study
State Trnsport Sector Policy
1. State Road Pricing           To develop and implement framework for fixing    Completed 9/91                     Led to better toll policies on
adequate levels for Road Pricing elements                                          access controlled highways
2. Regulation of Inter-Municipal   To assess Government's role and recommend     Completed 12/91                    Led to deregulation of
Public Transport            adjustments for adequate levels of service at                                       Intermunicipal bus transport
competitive rates                                                                  system
Transport Planning
3. Information System for       To implement a transport information system for  Substantially completed 12/95
Transport Planning          formulation, analysis and monitoring of transport
programs
4. Updating of Transport Model   To refine and update 1978 transport planning model  Substantially completed 12/95  Led to improved transport
Structure                                                .                                                      planning capabilities within
5. Training Program for Transport To prepare staff in transport planning, policy  Substantially completed 1/95      Led to identification of further
Policy Analysis             formulation and economic evaluation                                                 studies of development needed
6. Management of State Road     To prepare institutional measure for improving   Substantially completed 12/95
Transport Operations        coordination between ST and other involved institutions                         .
Highway Management
7. Highway Subsector            To assess highway subsectoral issues at Federal, State    Canceled 11/88 and replaced by  Manual on Safety Standards
Coordination                and Municipal levels and recommend measures to   traffic safety study (completed in  now updated and available
improve coordination                             1993)
8. Impact of Feeder Roads       To identify impact of feeder road development on  Canceled 11/88 and replaced by    Transfer of paved feeder roads
Development on Communities   economy and social structure of communities     reclassification of paved feeder roads  to municipalities for
(completed 8/91)                  maintenance
9. DER-SP Organization Study    To review institutional requirements, responsibilities  On-going
and functions
10. Development of a Pavement   To facilitate preparation of pluriannual road investment  Substantially completed 5/95  1996-2000 Road Investment
Management System           programs                                                                            program available
11. Development of an Equipment   To review equipment management and recommend   Canceled 10/92                    Promotion of Maintenance by
Management System           appropriate changes                                                                 Contract
12. Road Research Equipment     To foster experimental road research activities  Canceled 10/92, subcontracted to SP   Promote exchange between
University                        DER-SP and University



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate USSM)   Revised Estimate (US$M)   Revised Estimate (US$M)   Revised Estimate (USSM)
Dec 1989                    Dec 1990                   May 1995                   March 1996
Items               Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs              costs    costs              costs    costs              costs    costs
1. Civil Works                 174.7     137.3    312.0    209.4    164.6    374.0    181.5    138.5    320.0    199.5    156.8    356.3
2. Engineering & Supervision    11.7       3.9      15.6      7.1      0.1      7.2       0        0        0         0        0        0
3. Equipment Rehabilitation      1.4       2.1      3.5       1.0      1.5      2.5       1.1      1.5      2.6      0.5       0.7      1.2
4. Training Prograrn             3.8       1.5      5.3       3.4      1.3      4.7       2.5      0.9      3.4       1.4      0.6      2.0
5. Technical Assistance          2.7       1.2      3.9       6.1      2.7      8.8       3.0      1.3      4.3      2.3       1.0      3.3
6. Contingencies                37.0      28.4     65.4       4.7      3.0      8.5       -        -         -        -        -        -
Total                       231.3     174.4    405.7    231.7    173.2    405.7    188.1    142.2    330.3   203.7    159.1    362.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate US$M)   Revised Estimate (US$M)   Revised Estimate (US$M)    Actual Estimate (US$M)
Dec 1987                   Dec 1990                    May 1995                   March 1996
Sources              Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs             costs    costs              costs    costs              costs    costs
IBRD                        100.0      74.0    174.0    100.0      74.0    174.0     81.1     61.1    142.2    74.9       56.5    131.4
Local Contribution          131.7    100.0    231.7    131.7    100.0    231.7    107.0    81.1    188.1   131.7          99.7    231.4
Total                       231.3     174.4    405.7   231.7    173.2    405.7    188.1    142.2    330.3   206.6    156.2    362.8
* Including US$58.8 million outstanding debt Contractors (Price adjustment)



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A)      Rehabilitation Works
Average Daily Traffic      Unit Cost       Economic Rate of
US$/km             Return, %
Group   Road      Section     Length  Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual
(kmn)
I    SP280  Km 78-134         56       2861       5185        75.5      62.4      57         90
SP280  Km 134-180       46       2349       2948        75.5     100.6       43        44
SP280  Km 180-228       48       1436       3292        75.5      58.5       37        40
SP280  Km 228-278       50       1204       2731        80        90         31        45
SP300  Km 425-446       21       3414       3528        51.8      56.8       93        92
2    SP127  Km 0.3-31         31       3284       4565        81        62.5      65         68
SP225  Km 235-291       56       3719       4334        91        41.4       92       137
3    SP258  Km 288-313        25       1498       2171        86.7    166.6        64        28
SP270  Km 168-195       27       2389       2819        60.7      96.7       63        43
SP270  Km 195-223       28       1116       1926        59.1     126.9       23        21
SP300  Km 597-664       76       3454       4080        78.8    135.5        56        47
SP350  Km238-268        30       2208       3124       119.3      86.1       39        43
Total                  494         -          -          -         -          -         -
Average                          2512       3576        68.1      89.3       53        61
B)      Road Network Condition
Condition                              Appraisal (1985)                   Actual (1995)
Good                                        29%                                84%
Fair                                         49%                               10%
Poor                                        22%                                6%



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section    Covenant Type    Present           Description                Comments
Loan       3.03    (5) Management       C        Borrower to present the
2830-BR             Aspects                     completed Bank Data sheet for
prior subproject approval
3.04    (9) Monitor, review    CD    Borrower to furnish quarterly   Quality progress reports
and reporting               progress report             were not always to desirable
standards and often
supplied with delays
6.05    (1) Accounting/Audit C       DER/SP to open a revolving
account and to maintain
adequate records
6.07    (5) Management      CP       DERISP to furnish the Bank    Only discussion took place
Aspects                     recommendation of Phase 1 of  with Phase 2 still on-going,
Management Study before    and financed with local
starting Phase 2           funds
4.01    (1) Accounting/Audit  CD     Borrower to supply audit   Audit reports were
report before April 30, each    generally submitted with
year                       some delay
4.02    (10) Implementation   CP     DER/SP to assess impact of    Only action plan for the
axle load control and to  future has been presented
present action plan
4.03    (10) Implementation   C      DER/SP to assess measures to
improve routine maintenance
and maintenance by contract
4.03(c)  (9) Monitor, review    CP   DER'SP to present annual   Highway expenditure and
and reporting               highway expenditure and     funding programs were not
funding program            regularly submitted, each
year
C = Complied with    CP = Partially complied      CD = Complied with delay
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle                    Weeks                         US$ (000)
Preparation to appraisal                      33.4                             70.2
Appraisal through Board approval              35.1                             80.6
Supervision                                   93.3                            281.8
Completion                                      6.0                            18.0
Total                                         157.8                           450.6



21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project    Month/year  Number of  Days in   Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development             Types of problems
cycle                        persons     field        represented             status          impact
From Preparation                       4          -       Eng., Inst. Specialist,
through Appraisal     10/85-7/86                         Procurement Specialist
Appraisal through                     5                                                                         Delay due to change in Government
Board approval        8/86-4/87                                                                                 which needed to review project
Board approval                         3          -                                                    - -      Delay due to state assembly's and
through Effectiveness   10187-5188                                                                              national Congress's authorization to sign
loan
Supervision             3/88          2          7               Eng.                  2               2
11/88         3          6              Eng.                   2               2
Low quality Engineering & cost overrun
4/90          3          3              Eng.                  I                I        on works
Delay in payment to contractors &
1/91          2         11              Eng.                  I               I        consultants
Counterpart funds
Counterpart funds. Threat to suspend
10/92         3          10     Econ., Eng., Inst. Spec.      2                2        disbursement
Counterpart funds. Delay in
10/93         4          6        Eng. & Inst. Spec.          2                2        procurement due to new Brazilian law on
Procurement
Delay in institutional component. Threat
1/94          4          5        Econ., Eng. & Inst.         2               2        to suspend disbursement
Change in Administration. Slow
6/94          3          3        Eng. & Inst. Spec.          U               S        progress. Debt to contractors US$50M
Slow progress due to negotiation with
10/94         3          6           Eng. & Inst.             U               S         contractors
Negotiation successful with only 30% of
6195          5          6           Eng. & Inst.             U               S         contractors
12/95 '       3          4           Eng. &Inst.              S               S
Completion              12/95         2           1          Eng. & Inst.              S               S






,                                                  _                                     18 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 2791 4
,'   A.,W>'._.'_vrt ,         ~~~~~~~~~MINAS    GERAIS                                                   BRAZIL
-20              S--Crnd;ia~~~~~2et< sov.wQ.tsG~~~~Wdc  <_wso  %          .oG_,3-  -wv1  .o    *97m                                   STATE  HIGHWAY STAE HIGH AY       20
MATO  GOSSO  s  5a4n7>-  o9~b'       2c    ati  ,               9s0        g-      SMANAGEMENT PROJECT
D   SU             z e           d1 aD........... t.W  Q  +  7@7  QW      Q.       '         A   *C_  C4 wCU                                    SAO PAU LO
/  QWSG           W      Aw    S   W  N  M  .o.  P  Aw  - OIQ' 7555 1 ., - ,, REHAEILITATION WORKS.~~~REHBILITTION ORKS
~~~~~Tiow Q9I. C-. G-  773 A          DI                    It                                                                                 T5K_OTAL . 391 MINIVER
)                 /          fiol.    tLww  oSi-ww . ,ow,wLa *     o> ;        ,    't  ''        , wS I o  332     S542      '  L'~X0X-377_ * _ SPAVE50NDARIE
-    Ews   'LubsTw_ < <>e, -4  F - _ \ /71,5A 7
Rd   <   oAl   '  -    957g93-)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~   e  -~~P                                                             MAI DRIVERS ';C ^
TB.W_W  bhuS,   *|_   *   D        '>         ,  7=__ \753~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i16 0   ' 'I_.
!w---N^---vet---,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAE AIA
_ki,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-5-s__ STT OUDRE
<4tnM    ge   l   PA   R   A  N  A  Tvz> ,* ,tt X 0~~~~~~~~~1                                                       C.
T.AAOA PR eR DC..p G 2Xo-n-d .rR 94  72PL ;b+  WC 
J   R   PIAUI *-w>AMbL;O          Onr od meot on eh ego1   <*1                  ot w G0>JW                        t 5         G~~~~~~~~~~~-                              24 _
TERU  >    _._    MArO   9AItlA 8   >tNs O1az MU SK      -i7 OW S                         j-,0*  O     7454-8 ~~~~~~~'o  751-
- t 30L1VIA \._ G 15 . Z | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--PTI WP#| I r_WW t22N
22              RSO-GRI  S,XOKLMI3                                                                I0  V             MOP                
O  .CHIIE-)   . PARAGUAWLI  7   J FlT RO   O  2D~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~773.
E   ?   3G TN IN A //2 '   CA 41^4   A tonsi  O C e n  M ,ES                           f r >   h     c_.IU R U Uh     _  l rOR77AN4L-58  g z4945-AP31319
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-A









IMAGING
Report No:       16026
Type: ICR



