Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2830-BR
Loan Agreement
(State Highways Management Project - Sao Paulo)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SAO PAULO
Dated December 11, 1987
 LOAN NUMBER 2830-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF SA0 PAULO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, a 
political sub-division of the Guarantor, having been satisfied as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
N0W THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set  forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(b)
"DER-SP" means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Sao 
Paulo, an autarquia of the Borrower's Secretariat of Transport designated by the 
Borrower to act on its behalf as the agency charged with the execution of all parts of 
the Project other than Parts D.1 and D.2 thereof;
(c)
"Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project" means a specific highway project to 
be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project, consisting mainly of one or more of the 
following works in respect of a given road segment for which an Approved Engineering 
Sub-project, as the term is defined in paragraph (f) below, has been carried out: 
pavement overlay, strengthening   and rehabilitation, bituminous surface treatment and 
improvement of roadside drainage; 
(d)
"Approved Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project" means a Highway 
Rehabilitation Sub-project which has been approved by the Bank for financing under the 
Loan;
(e)
"Engineering Sub-project" means a specific Sub-project consisting of 
detailed engineering of a Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project;
(f)
"Approved Engineering Sub-project" means an Engineering Sub-project which 
has been approved by the Bank;
(g)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brazil, the Guarantor's Central 
Bank;
(h)
"Account Bank" means Central Bank in respect of CESA and the bank 
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement in respect of FESA;
(i)
"Project Revolving Account" means the account to be maintained by DER-SP 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(j)
Training Steering Committee means the committee established by DER-SP by 
means of the Portaria No. SUP/DER 036 dated September 24, 1986  published in the 
Borrower's Diario Oficial on October 1, 1986, for the purpose of providing policy 
guidelines for DER-SP's training program, including Part (C) of the Project;
(k)
"Pavement management Steering Committee" means the committee established 
by DER-SP by means of the Portaria No. SUP/DER 046 dated November 13, 1986, published 
in the Borrower's Diario Oficial on November 18, 1986, for the purpose of providing 
policy guidelines for the development, and continuous operation thereafter, of the 
system described  in Part D.3 (d) of the Project;
(l)
"Equipment Management Steering Committee" means the committee established 
by DER-SP by means of the Portaria No. Diario Oficial on November 18, 1986, for the 
purpose of providing policy guidelines for the development, and continuous operation 
thereafter, of the system described in Part D.3 (e) of the Project;
(m)
"Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 26, 673, published dated January 
28, 1987 in the Borrower's Diario Oficial on January 29, 1987 authorizing the 
reorganization of DER-SP's administration;
(n)
"Management Study" means a two-phased study whose Phase I was begun by 
the Borrower in August 1986 with the objective of preparing immediate follow-up 
measures to the Decree, and whose Phase II is included under Part D.3 (c) of the 
Project;
(o)
"Cruzado" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
 
(p)
"CESA" means the cruzado expenditures special account to be opened 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
(q)
"FESA" means the foreign exchange expenditures special account to be 
opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy four million dollars ($174,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in the Central Bank an account in dollars on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this account (hereinafter called CESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in cruzados incurred in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be 
financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, an account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this account (hereinafter 
called FESA) shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in currencies other than 
cruzados incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required to 
carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall 
cause the Account Bank to furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the 
CESA and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Superintendent of DER-SP, or the person or persons designated 
by him, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking 
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of all Parts of the 
Project other than Parts D.l and D.2 thereof.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DER-SP, except for Parts D.l and D.2 of the Project that shall 
be carried out through the Borrower's Secretariat of Transport, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative, road 
management  and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank, promptly upon  their 
completion, the final report and recommendations deriving from each of  the studies 
included in Part D of the Project; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
comment and exchange views thereon and (iii) put into effect those recommendations 
mutually agreed by the Borrower and the  Bank deriving from such studies.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement  of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) When presenting to the Bank a Highway Rehabilitation 
Sub-project for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application in a 
form satisfactory to the Bank containing: (i) a description and analysis of the 
respective Sub-project including: (1) design standards; (2) final cost estimates;  (3) 
average daily traffic by vehicle type; (4)
final implementation schedule; and (5) economic evaluation, including an economic rate 
of return calculation; and (ii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
When presenting to the Bank an Engineering Sub-project for approval, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application in a form satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing: (i) a description ant analysis of the respective Sub-project including: 
(1) information concerning the rationale for Sub-project identification and 
alternatives considered; (2) average daily traffic by vehicle type; (3) recommended 
design standards; (4)  preliminary cost estimates; (5) tentative implementation 
schedule; (6) preliminary economic evaluation; and (ii) such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall  present to 
the Bank, for its approval, only Highway Rehabilitation Sub-projects or Engineering 
Sub-projects which are in accordance with  economic priorities consistent with the 
optimal maintenance strategies to be determined from time to time in accordance with 
evaluation methodologies satisfactory to the Bank, including the system to be 
developed under Part D.3 (d) of the Project, but which shall, in no case, have an 
economic rate of return of less than 127, such rate of return to be calculated in
accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes not to 
change the terms or scope of an Approved Highway Rehabilitation Project or an Approved 
Engineering Project.
Page  5
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, starting not later than 90 days after the Effective 
Date, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank quarterly  progress reports on the 
execution of the Project, containing all such information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.
Section 3.05. Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DER-SP to maintain a 
Project Revolving Account to be used to make payments for the cost of the goods and 
services required to carry out the Project.  The Borrower shall make available to 
DER-SP in the Project Revolving Account an amount equivalent to eight million dollars 
($8,000,000) and thereafter all such amounts as shall be required, from time to time, 
to permit the payments heretofore specified to be made, promptly as needed, in 
accordance with the Project Expenditures Schedules as such schedules may be modified 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, out of the Project 
Revolving Account, and the Project Revolving Account shall be  maintained until all 
such payments shall have been made. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Project 
Revolving Account.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable 
action required for the prompt issuance of such import and other permits and licenses 
as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of goods and services 
required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, through DER-SP, the 
findings and recommendations of Phase I of the Management Study and shall exchange 
views, and cause DER-SP to exchange views, with the Bank on  such findings and 
recommendations before beginning the carrying out of Phase II of the Management Study 
under Part D.3 (c) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, through DER-SP and  the 
Borrower's Secretariat of Transport, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Parts of the Project in which DER-SP and such 
Secretariat are respectively involved.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for CESA and FESA and the Project 
Revolving Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
            (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Page  6
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
           (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
            (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DER-SP: (i) to assess the impact of the 
measures being introduced within the Borrower's territory for  controlling vehicle 
axle-loading and weight, including the establishment of weigh bridge stations, 
permanent or mobile, and (ii) in light of such  assessment to, exchange views with the 
Bank on or before December 31, 1988, on further action planned for purpose of such 
control.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the highways included in its 
highway network to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs, strengthening 
and rehabilitation thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound 
engineering practice; (ii) cause all DER-SP's road maintenance, workshop and research 
equipment and facilities to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate technical and 
engineering practices; and (iii) provide or cause to be provided, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing. 
(b)
Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) above, the  Borrower 
shall cause DER-SP: (i) to assess the various measures being introduced by DER-SP for 
improving its routine maintenance operations, such  as the development of a 
comprehensive routine maintenance management system for those maintenance operations 
executed by force account and of a system for contracting with third parties the 
execution of some of DER-SP's routine maintenance operations; and (ii) to furnish to 
the Bank, for comments, by December 31, 1988, a report with the findings of the 
aforesaid assessment and of DER-SP's intended future policies on routine maintenance;
(c)
Without limiting the generality of paragraphs (a) and (b) above,  the 
Borrower shall cause DER-SP: (i) to review, in accordance with policies and economic 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, DER-SP's annual highway management 
expenditure and funding program, including construction, rehabilitation and 
maintenance works, and (ii) to furnish to the Bank, not later than in August 15 of 
each year, the results of such reviews, together with the adjustments. If any, to such 
annual program. The Borrower shall, at all times, provide all resources required for 
the  execution of each of such annual programs and finance them through the rolling 
three-year budget programming process of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
that the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of DER-SP or of the Training Steering  Committee or of the Pavement 
Management Steering Committee or of the Equipment Management Steering Committee or for 
the suspension of their respective operations or activities; and
(b)
that the Decree shall have been abrogated or revoked, or modified in a 
fashion that shall adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events  specified in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional  conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Borrower's 
Central Bank;
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or given in order 
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and the 
Borrower to perform their respective obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement 
and this Agreement,  together with all necessary powers and rights in connection 
therewith, have been performed or given; and
(c)
evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been provided showing  that the 
account specified in Section 3.05 to this Agreement has been  opened and that the 
equivalent of eight million dollars ($8,000,000) has been made available to DER-SP in 
such account.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all action required to be taken by the Senate of the Guarantor or by 
the Account Banks for the execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement, or for the 
ratification thereof, have been taken.
Section 6.03. The date of March 15, 1988 is hereby specified for the  purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of  this Agreement, the 
Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of  the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Av. Rangel Pestana, 300
Sao Paulo - SP - Brazil
CEP-01100
Page  8
Telex:
(11) 22863
(11) 23730
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
STATE OF SA0 PAULO
By /s/ Orestes Quercia
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the  percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in     Expenditures
      Category             Dollar equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)   Works:
      (a)   Under Part A.2     129,580,000  )
            of the Project                  )
                                            )    42%
      (b)   Under Part C.1         310,000  )
            of the Project                  )
(2)   Equipment:
      (a)   Under Part B         2,100,000       100% of foreign (f)
            of the Project                       expenditures
      (b)   Under Part C           210,000       85%
            of the Project
      (c)   Under Part D.3          70,000       100% of foreign
            (f) of the Project                   expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  9
(3)   Consultants'
      services:
      (a)   Under Part A.1       2,580,000       42%
            of the Project
      (b)   Under Part A.2       3,950,000       42%
            of the Project
      (c)   Under Part C           542,000  )    100% of foreign of
            the Project                     )    expenditures and
                                            )    85% of local
      (d)   Under Part D         3,200,000  )    expenditures
            of the Project                  )
                                            )
4)    Training courses           3,100,000       85%
      under Parts C.2 and
      C.3 of the protect
(5)   Fellowships in               358,000       100% of foreign
      Brazil and abroad                          expenditures and
      and foreign                                85% of local
      specialists under                          expenditures
      Part C.4 of the
      Project
(6)   Unallocated               28,000,000
            TOTAL              174,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or  services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $15,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1986.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the protect are to improve significantly the condition of the 
Borrower's road infrastructure over a four-year period and  to improve its highway 
administration system, thereby ensuring that the Borrower's dominant transport mode, 
the road system, will function with increased efficiency in terms of transport costs 
and time savings.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Highway Rehabilitation
 
1.
Execution of Approved Engineering Sub-projects for the maintenance and 
rehabilitation of the Borrower's highway system.
2.
Execution of Approved Rehabilitation Sub-projects in the Borrower's highway 
Page  10
system which have a high priority for the economic and social development of the 
Borrower and, consequently, of the Guarantor.
Part B:
Equipment Rehabilitation
 
Execution of a program of rehabilitation of Imported units of equipment partly 
to be contracted by DER-SP with privately owned workshops  and which shall include the 
acquisition of imported spare parts and the utilization thereof for purposes of the 
program.
Part C:
Training
 
1.
Provision for and utilization of training facilities by DER-SP,  including 
building improvements in DER-SP's principal training center in Campinas and in two 
regional training centers to be established, furnishings, equipment, such as 
audio-visual, other training aids, books and manuals.
2.
Execution of a highway maintenance and rehabilitation training  program for 
about 3,290 members of DER-SP staff, including about 390 professionals, 1800 
sub-professionals, 900 mechanics and 1,200 equipment operators.
3.
Extension of the training program included in 2 above to about 600  
sub-professionals, 800 mechanics and 600 equipment operators employed in highway 
maintenance operations by about 200 municipalities within the  Borrower's territory. 
This program shall be undertaken only after a  thorough pilot exercise of analyzing 
the staff structure and training needs  of a sample universe of about 50 
municipalities is carried out and shall be based on the results of such exercise.
4.
Specific courses by selected foreign experts and about 60 man-months of 
fellowships, mostly abroad, all for DER-SP staff.
5.
Provision and utilization of technical assistance for all of the above.
 
Part D:
Studies and other technical assistance services
 
1.
State transport policy studies, comprising: (a) development and  implementation 
of an analytical framework to assist the Borrower's Secretariat of Transport in fixing 
adequate levels for the road pricing elements under the Borrower's jurisdiction, in 
the context of an equitable road cost recovery system; and (b) assessment of the 
Borrower's role in the regulation of public inter-municipal passenger transport 
through a review  of the effectiveness and efficiency of the existing regulatory 
system, and elaboration of recommendations of the adjustments thereto required to  
ensure adequate levels of service at competitive rates.
2.
Transport planning and operations studies, and other activities,  comprising: 
(a) the preparation and putting into effect of a transport  information system for the 
Borrower, including a methodology for its continuous updating, that will constitute 
the basis for the formulation, analysis and monitoring of transport program and 
policies in the short and medium term; (b) the refinement of the 1978 comprehensive 
transport planning model for the Borrower and the recalibration of its parameters, 
both with reference to a new data base; (c) a training program for relevant 
professional staff of the Borrower's Secretariat of Transport and modal  agencies in 
systemic transport planning analysis, policy formulation and economic evaluation 
techniques; and (d) preparation of the institutional measures required for improving 
the coordination between the Borrower's Secretariat of Transport and other public and 
private sector institutions involved in the management of road transport.
3.
Highway management studies, and other activities, comprising: (a)  Assessment of 
highway subsectoral issues at federal, state and municipal levels taking into account 
recent decentralization trends and restructuring of highway funding with 
recommendation for achieving greater cooperation on administrative, financial and 
technical levels among the agencies
responsible for road infrastructure; (b) identification and analysis of the impact of 
feeder road development on the economy and social structure of  the communities, 
primarily in the Northeastern municipalities of the Borrower; (c) phase II of the 
Management Study; (d) development of a system  that will facilitate the preparation by 
DER-SP of pluri-annual investment programs for highway rehabilitation, periodic 
Page  11
maintenance and paving of earth or gravel roads, or both, based upon up-to-date road 
condition  surveys and appropriately evaluated economic priorities for project 
selection; (e) reviewing DER-SP's present equipment administration  practices with a 
view to identifying areas which require immediate  strengthening and recommending 
changes thereto so as to enable DER-SP to develop and put into effect an equipment 
management system that would provide criteria for equipment repair and replacement, 
use of privately owned workshops, warehouse administration, spare parts acquisition, 
and determining the costs associated with each equipment unit; and (f) establishment 
of a Road Research Unit within DER-SP's Directorate of Engineering, charged with the 
responsibility of expanding gradually DER-SP's  research activities and carrying out 
independent research with the  assistance of universities, research institutions, 
consultants and experts, and acquisition and utilization of research-related 
equipment.
*  *  * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1990
through  March 15, 2002
$7,250,000
 
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to 
the balance outstanding on the Loan 
on the day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.25
Page  12
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but
0.87
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
 SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works under Part A of the Project 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$10,000,000 each.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, 
that the contracts so awarded shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of 
$225,000,000.
2.
Goods for Parts B, C and D.3 (f) of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited  from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in  accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that in respect of goods for Parts C and 
D.3 (f) of the Project, and to the extent the contracts thereof do not exceed the 
equivalent of $50,000 each, or $360,000 in the aggregate, said suppliers may be 
located in the Guarantor's territories.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards ant final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $3,500,000 or more, and $100,000 or  more, respectively, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the CESA or FESA, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of CESA or FESA in
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of CESA or FESA, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
Page  13
together with the other information  required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of supervision of civil 
works under Parts A.2 and C of the Project, detailed engineering under Part A.1 of the 
Project to the extent said detailed engineering is not executed by DER-SP personnel, 
and Parts C and D of the Project, the  Borrower shall employ consultants, and experts 
in the case of Part C.4 of the Project, whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories, other than Category 
6, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to  the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$11,000,000 and to $1,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and  deposited in 
the CESA and FESA, respectively, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule. The Account Bank shall authorize withdrawals from the 
CESA or FESA, or as the case may be, on the basis of the evidence that the Bank shall 
have reasonably determined and provided that: (i) in the case of CESA, payment of the 
corresponding eligible expenditures has been made out of the Project Revolving 
Account; or (ii) funds for such payment are readily available in the Project Revolving 
Account. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Account Bank shall debit or cause 
to be debited CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with the dollar equivalent of the 
amount of the eligible expenditures in question in cruzados, in the case of CESA, or 
with the actual dollar amount or the dollar equivalent of the eligible expenditures in 
currencies other than dollars or cruzados, in the case of FESA. The aforesaid 
equivalencies shall be determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the 
dollar and the cruzado or such other currency in effect at the time each payment for 
eligible expenditures shall have been made.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA or FESA, as 
the case may be, has been duly opened, withdrawals of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the  corresponding Authorized 
Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amount or amounts as the 
Page  14
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for  replenishment of 
CESA and FESA, as the case may be, at such intervals as  the Bank shall specify. On 
the basis of such requests, the Bank shall  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments 
made out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the  respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such 
request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,  the Bank 
may deny any request for a further deposit into CESA or FESA when either of the 
following situations arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
corresponding Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date 
of such notice, will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
CESA or FESA: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not  eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, deposit into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the Bank shall 
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into CESA 
or FESA shall be made until the Borrower shall have made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in CESA or FESA will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
