                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR1915




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (TF056895 AND TF057749)

                                           ON A

                              GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                  US$15 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                         FOR THE

            AVIAN INFLUENZA SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL PROJECT


                                     October 29, 2011




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective 1 April 2011)

                             Currency Unit = Indonesian rupiah (IDR)
                                 IDR 1.00 = US$0.00012
                                  US$1.00 = IDR 8,665

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 – December 31


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHIF          Avian and Human Influenza Facility (funded by the EU)
AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
DGLS          Directorate General of Livestock Services
Dinas         District services (livestock, agriculture etc.)
DSO           District Surveillance Officer
EU            European Union
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GOI           Government of Indonesia
GOJ           Government of Japan
HPAI          Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICR           Implementation Completion and Result
IEC           Information and Education Campaign
ILRI          International Livestock Research Institute
Komnas FBPI   National Committee for Avian Influenza Control and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness
KVM           Community Vaccination Coordinators
LDCC          Local Disease Control Center
Menko Kesra   Coordinating Ministry for People‘s Welfare
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           Ministry of Finance
OR            Operational Research
PDO           Project Development Objective
PDSR          Participatory Disease Surveillance and Response
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development – Trust fund of Government of Japan
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VM            Community Vaccinators
WB            World Bank
WHO           World Health Organization




                            Vice President:    James W. Adams, EAPVP
                          Country Director:    Stefan G. Koeberle, EACIF
                           Sector Manager:     Franz R. Drees-Gross, EASIS
                      Project Team Leader:     Shobha Shetty, AFTAR
                         ICR Team Leader:      Takayuki Hagiwara (FAO)
                                                              INDONESIA

            THE AVIAN INFLUENZA SURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL PROJECT

                                                              CONTENTS


Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 19
6. Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................... 23
Annex 2: Outputs by Components ........................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any).......................................................................... 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ................................................. 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower‘s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................... 42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 48
MAP ......... ............................................................................................................................... 50
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Indonesia-Avian and
                                                                        Human Influenza
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:
                                                                        Control and
                                                                        Preparedness
Project ID:            P103654                 L/C/TF Number(s):        TF-56895,TF-57749
ICR Date:              11/10/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:
                                                                        INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 15.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 3.75M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 3.75M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 KOMNAS FBPI
 Ministry of Agriculture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process               Date          Process             Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/24/2006   Effectiveness:            09/06/2007        09/06/2007
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/15/2006   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                  07/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                      Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                 Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                    80                  80
Health                                                               20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                          34                  34
Other communicable diseases                                          33                  33
Rural services and infrastructure                                    33                  33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                  Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:            Franz R. Drees-Gross                Rahul Raturi
Project Team Leader:       Shobha Shetty                       Louise F. Scura
ICR Team Leader:           Shobha Shetty
ICR Primary Author:        Takayuki Hagiwara


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Objective is to assist the Recipient in controlling the Highly Pathogenic
Avian Influenza (HPAI) infection at the source in domestic poultry, reducing the amount
of HPAI virus circulating in the environment, and thereby reducing the risks of human
infection as well as possible mutation of the HPAI virus to a form which is more easily
transmitted from human to human.



                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                    approval            Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)            Values        Target Years
                  Participatory disease surveillance and response (PDS/R) system detected
Indicator 1 :
                  outbreaks in poultry (if any) in 12 districts
                                                                                   PDS/R systems
                                              PDS/R systems                        strengthened in 70
                  Coverage and reliability
                                              reliably detect                      lower-priority
Value             of existing systems is
                                              outbreaks of HPAI                    districts, with 140
quantitative or   uneven; continuity and
                                              in about 12 high-                    PDS/R staff trained,
Qualitative)      sustainability of systems
                                              priority target                      and 21 confirmed
                  needs to be reinforced.
                                              districts.                           HPAI cases
                                                                                   detected
Date achieved     12/29/2006                  07/31/2009                           12/01/2009
                  Target shifted after original districts covered by other donor. Outreach to 1,053
Comments
                  (8%) of the district villages detected 5 active cases, 16 under control, 87 under
(incl. %
                  monitoring. Awareness improved, but detection of reliability not certain.
achievement)
                  Partially achieve
                  Communities trained and empowered to undertake quarterly vaccination of
Indicator 2 :
                  poultry in 6 districts
                                                                                   40 community
                                                                                   vaccinator
                  Communities lack
                                              Six districts able to                coordinators and
Value             training, equipment,
                                              vaccinate their                      640 community
quantitative or   support, and vaccines to
                                              poultry on a                         vaccinators trained;
Qualitative)      undertake regular
                                              quarterly basis.                     270,000 chickens
                  vaccinations.
                                                                                   vaccinated in 10
                                                                                   districts
Date achieved     12/29/2006                  12/31/2009                           12/15/2009
Comments          Vaccination was carried out as part of Operational Research (OR) in 12 high-risk
(incl. %          districts later reduced to 10 due to late start of project. No baseline/target values.
achievement)      Partially achieved.
Indicator 3 :     Culling compensation system re-designed and piloted in 6-9 districts
                  No culling compensation
                  Compensation is not         Compensation
Value
                  systematic and more         system redesigned
quantitative or                                                                    Not implemented
                  formal system needed to and piloted in 6-9
Qualitative)
                  ensure early reporting and districts.
                  culling.
Date achieved     12/29/2006                  12/31/2009                           01/12/2009
Comments          Not acGovernment dropped component because (a) it appeared culling was
(incl. %          taking place without compensation, (b) it did not want to set a precedent, and (c)


                                                   iii
achievement)    it was seen as too unwieldy for the small-scale producers targeted by the project.
                Not achieved.
Indicator 4 : Poultry sector restructuring options assessed.
                                          Study to assess
                Better control and
Value                                     options for
                regulation of poultry                                         Assessment not
quantitative or                           restructuring
                sector required to reduce                                     carried out.
Qualitative)                              poultry sector
                risk and spread of HPAI
                                          completed.
Date achieved 12/29/2006                  12/15/2009                          12/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved.
achievement)
                HPAI information and data management and coordination of HPAI-related
Indicator 5 :
                actions improved.
                                                                              More than 3,000
                                          Management and                      people trained to
                .Management and           coordination                        carry out
Value           coordination between      between agencies                    Information and
quantitative or agencies and between      and different                       Education
Qualitative)    different levels of       levels of                           Campaign (IEC),
                government is weak.       government                          but outcomes for
                                          improved.                           coordination are
                                                                              mixed.
Date achieved 12/29/2006                  12/31/2009                          12/15/2009
Comments        Partially achieved. Coordination between DSOs and PDS/R improved as also
(incl. %        coordination with the Ministry of People's Welfare and KOMNAS-FBPI.
achievement) However, no baseline and quantitative figures available. Partially achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                           Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                             Revised
                                             approval                      Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   TORs for culling compensation study developed and approved
Value
                                        TORs drafted and
(quantitative   No TORs available
                                        reviewed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2006                08/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Was not achieved since GOI decided to drop the component.
achievement)




                                                iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                       Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP          Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1    06/26/2008         Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory              1.50
                                                   Moderately
  2    06/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                  1.59
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  3    06/25/2009                                                            1.84
                        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context

1.1.1 Across the 53 countries worldwide affected by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
(HPAI), Indonesia was thought to have among the highest HPAI risks and lowest capacity to
respond to an HPAI emergency situation. Since the first recognized outbreak in Indonesia in
August 2003, the H5N1 virus continued to spread progressively in poultry throughout the country,
and HPAI was considered endemic in most provinces. At the request of the Government of
Indonesia (GOI)/Ministry of Planning, BAPPENAS, project identification was initiated in March
2006 with a joint World Bank (Bank)-World Health Organization (WHO)-Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) mission. At that time, it was estimated that sector 3 (small-scale commercial
chicken producers) and sector 4 (back-yard chicken producers)1 alone had more than 400 million
poultry.2 However, surveillance coverage for these two sectors was generally unreliable to detect
outbreaks and assess the level of virus circulation among birds. Given such a high poultry and
human population, the related human health risks were considered very high in Indonesia. During
2006 alone, nearly 50% of human cases (55 out of 111) and approximately 60% of human deaths
(44 of 75) which were attributed to HPAI worldwide occurred in Indonesia.

1.1.2 In late 2005, the GOI prepared the ―National Strategic Plan for Avian Influenza Control
and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness 2006 – 2008.‖ The plan became the key document to deal
with HPAI and receive support from donors. The GOI presented the plan at the Avian and
Human Influenza international pledging conference held in Beijing in January 2006,3 requesting
donor assistance in the order of US$900 million (US$300 million per year over three years). The
donor response did not come close to meeting the GOI‘s expectations, providing about 10% of
the requested assistance.

1.1.3 A joint Bank, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization
(WHO) assessment mission fielded in March 2006 in response to a request from the National
Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) found the plan was weak in technical details and
organizational arrangements for implementation and coordination. In addition, the mission found
that the estimate of funding needs of US$900 million was reasonable given the size of Indonesia
and the endemic nature of the virus, but there was a significant financial gap, as well as a
mismatch between the stated priorities in the plan and allocation of GOI budget. Discussions
were held between the Bank and GOI on the possibility of using International Development
Association (IDA) financing to close the financing gap. The GOI declined to seek IDA financing
because in their view controlling the virus was an international public good and therefore
Indonesia should receive the level of international assistance needed for this purpose. As a result,
the GOI and the Bank agreed to formulate this project financed by Government of Japan‘s (GOJ)
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant and European Union‘s (EU) Avian
and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF) grant. However, there remained a significant financing gap

1
    The poultry industry is conceived to comprise of the four sectors adopted by FAO and OIE. Essentially sub-
    sector 3 is small-scale commercial producers; sub-sector 4 is back-yard producers. For more details of the
    definitions of each sector, see: http://www.fao.org/avianflu/en/poultryproduction.html.
2
    It was estimated that there were 286 million native chickens, 98 million broiler chickens and 34 million ducks.
3
    The Government of China together with the European Commission and the World Bank co-sponsored an
    International Pledging Conference on Avian and Human Influenza in Beijing on 17-18 January, 2006. The
    conference assessed the financing needs at the country, regional and global levels. During this event the
    international community pledged US$1.9billion in financial support and discussed coordination mechanisms.

                                                         1
which meant that not all elements of the plan could be fully implemented and not all geographic
areas could be covered. To get the biggest impact from the donor funding available, the project
design focused on funding a geographic slice of a coordinated program, which also was funded
by other key donors (particularly USAID and AusAID).

1.1.4 The same year, the GOI installed the National Committee for Avian Influenza Control
and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness (Komnas FBPI)4 with an aim to implement the plan. It was
established by a Presidential Decree and given a key role to coordinate GOI administration and
create an effective chain of command ensuring coordination from the national to the village level.
It is important to note that when established, Komnas FBPI did not have sufficient capacity to
fully take on its intended leadership and coordination role.

1.1.5 While other donors including UN agencies were concentrating on technical development
aspects, the rationale for Bank‘s assistance was justified by stressing importance of planning and
policy development capacity in this sector, and the provision of funds for field operations both at
the central and local government levels through the national budget system. In addition, none of
donors were interested in working on culling compensation and poultry sector reform at the time
of project preparation, in which the Bank had a comparative advantage. The Bank believed that
due to lack of immediately available technical capacity in the country and the unprecedented
animal-disease-control emergency that was being faced, it would be prudent to use a sole-source
contracting option to recruit international organizations such as FAO and International Livestock
Research Institute (ILRI) to work with the Government. To this end, it also put in place the co-
implementing agreement with USAID to carry out the same project design for Components A, B
and D to ensure no delays.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The objective of the project is to assist the Recipient in controlling the Highly Pathogenic
Avian Influenza (HPAI) infection at the source in its domestic poultry, reducing the amount of
HPAI virus circulating in the environment, and thereby reducing the risks of human infection as
well as possible mutation of the HPAI virus to a form which is more easily transmitted from
human to human.

1.2.2 The key performance indicators at the outcome level were as follows:

        (i) Participatory disease surveillance and response (PDS/R) system detected outbreaks in
              poultry (if any) in the twelve districts;
        (ii) Communities trained and empowered to undertake quarterly vaccination of poultry in
              the six districts;
        (iii) Culling compensation system redesigned and piloted in six to nine districts;
        (iv) Poultry sector restructuring options assessed; and
        (v) HPAI information and data management and coordination of HPAI related actions
              improved.

These indicators were in the project documents prepared for the AHIF and PHRD grants and
reflected in the grant agreements (see Section 2.1). No intermediate indicators were specified.

4
    Komnas is an acronym for Komite Nasional, which means National Committee in Indonesian.
    FBPI: Pengendalian Flu Burung Dan Kesiapsiagaan Menghadapi Pandemi Influenza.

                                                      2
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification

1.3.1 The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The direct primary beneficiaries of this project were the approximately 30 million small-
scale poultry producers who account for 20% of the 1.4 billion poultry population in Indonesia.
The main intended benefit for these producers was reduced economic and health risks. The
broader group of beneficiaries also included the larger immediate rural and peri-urban
populations especially women. Women are relatively more economically affected than men by
the HPAI crisis, since they are often the ones directly involved in the care and handling of poultry
particularly in small-scale backyard production. All socio-economic groups may have faced
difficulties in accessing information about the disease but the barriers were greatest for the poor
and the women. Other beneficiaries included the national veterinary service, the district level
officers and other animal health professionals. Indirect beneficiaries also include all persons who
might be exposed to HPAI virus if mutation occurs and a more transmissible human-to-human
form results.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1 The project had six components. The Directorate General of Livestock Service (DGLS)
under Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was responsible for the implementation of components A,
B, and D and Komnas FPBI for components C, E, and F. The three components under DGLS
were implemented in coordination and in parallel with other donor funded activities, mainly by
USAID, through this was not formally counted as project cofinancing. FAO provided technical
assistance to component A and B under a sole-source contract, while International Livestock
Research Institute (ILRI) was also hired under a sole-source contract for component D.

Component A: Participatory Animal Disease Surveillance and Response (US$3,010,000)

To reinforce the continuity and sustainability of PDS/R through the local disease control centers
in about 12 districts through the provision of consultant services, goods, and operating support.

Component B: Community-based Preventive Vaccination (US$5,725,000)

To improve vaccination effectiveness by introducing a community-based approach to preventive
vaccination of poultry through provision of required poultry vaccines, related equipment and
operational support. Vaccines procured under this component were supposed to be used in the
Operational Research (OR). Training for GOI staff and community vaccinators who participated
in the community vaccination program of OR was undertaken under this component.

Component C: Culling Compensation System (US$2,779,500)

To undertake a comprehensive study for effective culling compensation mechanisms,5 provide

5
    The purpose of culling is to break the virus transmission cycle by quickly eliminating infected, virus-shedding birds and
    reducing the susceptible bird population in the immediate vicinity of the outbreak. To promote early notification of suspected

                                                                3
compensation payments to affected poultry owners in the event of culling and evaluate said
compensation mechanisms after the first year of implementation. Under this component, three
activities were proposed including: (i) a comprehensive design study for an effective
compensation system; (ii) paying compensation for poultry culled; and (iii) evaluation of the
redesigned system based on the experiences gained from this activity.

Component D: Project Impact Monitoring and Evaluation (US$825,000)

To monitor and evaluate the epidemiological impact of the control interventions taken under the
project and conducting targeted studies to address key epidemiological issues through provision
of consultants‘ services, goods, and operational support. This component, which was commonly
called Operational Research (OR), aimed to evaluate the feasibility and impact of the
implementation of alternative control strategies for HPAI in village-based poultry in Indonesia.
Despite the fact that this component was named ―Project Impact Monitoring and Evaluation,‖ it
solely aimed to analyze outputs/outcomes of component A, B, and C as a research project; this
component did not intend to provide M&E information for project management as M&E is
normally used in other projects. OR was to evaluate the following four strategies agreed on
following stakeholder consultation:

  (i) PDS/R system with a preventive blanket vaccination program against HPAI;
  (ii) PDS/R system with a preventive blanket vaccination program against HPAI and
        Newcastle Disease;
  (iii) PDS/R system with immediate compensation and Control; and
  (iv) PDS/R Program implemented as per the standard operating procedures that have been
        developed by MOA /FAO.

Component E: Poultry Sector Restructuring Options Study (US$240,000)

To conduct a comprehensive study of options for poultry sector restructuring through provision
of consultants‘ services. This component also aimed to come up with a recommended strategy
and action plan to reduce transmission risks, as well as to prepare a regulation for poultry
movement.

Component F: Coordination of HPAI Control, Pandemic Influenza Preparedness, and
Community-based Public Information Campaign (US$2,420,500)

To support the Komnas FBPI for its overall coordination of HPAI control, pandemic influenza
preparedness, and community-based public information campaign through provision of
consultants‘ services and operational support.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The components were not formally revised but during project implementation the
geographic focus shifted and other elements of the project were realigned because of evolving
conditions and priorities on the ground.



  outbreaks of HPAI and cooperation of households holding poultry, compensation for culled birds at an acceptable level of the
  birds‘ market value would be critical, especially for poor and vulnerable households.

                                                             4
1.7 Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 Component A aimed to cover 12 districts in the design, while actual PDS/R activities
under the component were implemented in 70 districts of 9 provinces (Local Disease Control
Centers: LDCCs). The vaccines to be used for component B and D were not procured because
excess vaccines previously procured by USAID were used instead. Activities under component F
were only partially implemented, including the Information and Education Campaign (IEC) and
support of Komnas FBPI in its core role to coordinate HPAI-related activities. After an
acceleration team was established by the Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare (Menko
Kesra6), it took charge of implementing Component F, instead of Komnas FBPI. A short closing
date extension was granted to provide sufficient time to GOI to complete ongoing activities to the
maximum extent possible based on the Action Plan provided at the time by DGLS and
KOMNAS-FBPI. It took into account the fact that the budget year for GOI is the same as the
calendar year.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 The government of Indonesia did not request a loan to support the activities under the
project. The task team essentially prepared project documents to apply for funds under the AHIF
and PHRD facilities. There were no counterpart funds associated with the project either. No
Project Appraisal Document was prepared. The grant agreements were prepared on the basis of
the applications to the AHIF and PHRD.

2.1.2 The project formulation responded to the global attention to HPAI, as well as the national
strategic plan to reduce risks of HPAI outbreaks and human-to-human transmission following
possible virus mutation. Based on a wide range of experiences from the Bank‘s previous
operations in the country and available funding instruments, the rationale for Bank involvement
was sound. It was also relevant to build GOI capacity, including that of local governments to
respond effectively against the HPAI emergency situation by using the national budget system
while ensuring transparency and accountability of the use of the funds. This approach was
particularly welcomed by the GOI when other donors were mainly concentrating on building
technical capacity and used direct implementation which bypassed the national budget procedures.
The involvement of the Bank in the project preparation also strengthened the government‘s
understanding that a national strategy to prevent and control HPAI would require building not
only technical capacity but also GOI‘s planning and policy development capability. All these
were well reflected to the Bank‘s comparative advantage. Given the weak technical capacity in-
country and the rapidly evolving situation, the design laid out an option to work with technical
agencies—FAO (Component A and B), and ILRI (Component D). This option was well
coordinated with USAID, and the design intention to assure quality technical assistance inputs
through sole-source contracts was valid, given that these two are uniquely qualified for the
technical assistance in a complex and rapidly changing emergency situation.

2.1.3 However, the design overestimated the capacity of Komnas FBPI and DGLS and failed to
suggest a sound implementation arrangement. While the project design clearly recognized risks to
use the national budget system for an emergency project, the mitigation measures that were put in

6
    The abbreviation of the Ministry.

                                                5
place included single source selection (SSS) of key contracts to reduce administrative overload
on the implementing agencies and ensure that the activities were completed expeditiously, with
attention to quality and with technically sound agencies. DGLS elected to request a SSS and sent
a request to the Bank with the justification for SSS in line with the Bank‘s procurement
guidelines. The justification was that the agencies were: (i) uniquely qualified provide the
technical assistance in a complex and rapidly changing emergency situation; and (ii) the work
was part of a larger program of activities funded by other donors with which this work needed to
be coordinated. There were no substantial delays resulting from the use of SSS. Indeed, a
competitive selection process would not have assured quality technical assistance and would have
taken significantly more time.

The Project Operation Manual that includes the procedures for fund disbursement was prepared
in December 2008, only six months before the original closing date. Furthermore, the condition
given to the GOI for project effectiveness was only the appointment of senior officers at both
Komnas FBPI and DGLS, which demonstrates that the Bank did not take better account of the
potential risks identified.

2.1.4 Quality at Entry review was not conducted on this project.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 The Project was expected to play a key role at the initial stage to develop the HPAI
prevention and control infrastructure in the 12 districts, by funding a geographic slice of a
coordinated program also financed by other key donors, especially USAID. However, the project
was inactive for about two years and its funds were not utilized by the GOI until the foundations
were established largely with efforts financed by other donors. Project implementation improved
dramatically during the final eight months from May 2009 until the project‘s completion on 31
December 2009 with an effort from both MOA and the acceleration team established by Menko
Kesra. Over the 2.5 years duration of the project, however, implementation was generally
unsatisfactory. Key factors that contributed to this included:

        Missed timing to approve the project budget according to the national budget
         procedures: The regular national budgetary operation follows the fiscal timetable:
         budget plans for the next year are prepared in June by government agencies, submitted to
         Ministry of Finance (MOF) in July, examined in the parliament from September to
         November, approved in December, and executed beginning in January of the following
         year. The grant agreements were signed in June and became effective in September
         20077: this meant unless the implementation agencies had included the project activities
         and financing in their respective budgets approved by the GOI or amended at mid-year to
         include the project activities and financing for 2007, the Project would not be able to
         implement any activity in 2007. Komnas FBPI failed to do so and as a result, the project
         remained idle during 2007. The more significant blow occurred when the budget
         deadlines were missed again for the 2008 budget and as a result the project was also idle
         for most of 2008. At the same time, the GOI reduced its own budget for HPAI in 2008,
         giving a clear indication of a reduced priority. A special task group to prepare a budget
         plan, in which the Bank team participated, was finally installed in DGLS in June 2008. It
         spent five months to prepare the 2009 budget plan with MOF, which was approved in

7
    The grant proposals were approved by EU in December 2006 and the GOJ in January 2007.

                                                      6
    October 2008. The majority of grant funds started to flow in May 2009, only two months
    before the original closing date.

   Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures: Neither of the two agencies (Komnas FBPI and
    DGLS) directly involved in this project had any previous experience with implementing a
    project with the Bank. The lack of budget at the initial stage also meant that the project
    did not have any help from consultants in preparing and amending budgets, which
    created a vicious cycle of no budget expenditures.

   Different level of priority for HPAI between national and global perceptions: Prior
    to the Beijing conference, there was little apparent local initiative to prevent and control
    HPAI. Following the wide global publicity given to HPAI at that time, the disease was
    regarded as an “international? problem and one for which control should be funded from
    international sources. This is understandable, given the incidence of other serious
    infectious human (dengue, malaria, hepatitis, tuberculosis), and zoonotic (rabies, anthrax)
    diseases in Indonesia that claim far higher numbers of human lives than HPAI. In
    addition, the government‘s initial attitude was that HPAI was a national priority, but not
    a national emergency. The lack of an official declaration of emergency on HPAI made
    the project unable to speed up fund disbursements by bypassing the official budget
    procedures.

   Lack of ownership/capacity issues in Komnas FBPI: While Komnas FBPI and DGLS
    endorsed the project during a national workshop in August 2006, in a session jointly
    chaired by the Executive Secretary of Komnas FBPI and the Bank Country Director,
    subsequently the overall involvement of Komnas FBPI on the details of the project
    design was limited. This was also compounded by lack of capacity in KOMNAS-FBPI.

   Change of domestic attitudes made the initial project design difficult for Komnas
    FBPI to implement: While the project proposal was prepared and officially reviewed by
    the GOI, the Bank, the EU and the GOJ, local experiences and good practices to deal
    with HPAI were progressively built up in Indonesia. In parallel, Komnas FBPI started
    preparing ―the Jakarta by-law on the raising and movement of poultry‖ in 2007, and the
    process of preparation of the by-law helped Komnas FBPI to build its knowledge through
    official and unofficial meetings with local experts, poultry industries, local government
    representatives, etc. Partly as a result of these consultations compounded by its own
    internal lack of capacity, two of the key activities to be implemented by Komnas FBPI—
    Redesign of the Culling Compensation System (Component C), and Poultry Sector
    Restructuring (Component E)—became politically very difficult for Komnas FBPI to
    manage. At the same time, the GOI increasingly viewed foreign criticism of their efforts
    in controlling HPAI as foreign interference in domestic affairs, and began taking a more
    selective approach to cooperation (e.g., suspension of reporting of HPAI human cases).

   Decision to use GOI Budget: Under the AHIF, the grants could have been implemented
    by UN agencies, as was done in other countries. However, the GOI insisted that the grant
    go through the national budget. When the funds became available to the GOI,
    bureaucratic inertia took over which delayed the preparation and approval of the budget.




                                             7
       Direct Funding Received Immediate Attention from the National Management: At
        the time of implementation, numerous other donors (USAID, GOJ) were already
        assisting the Indonesian program to control HPAI with inputs, outputs and outcomes that
        were similar to those of the Bank project. As these funds were provided directly and did
        not have to go through the government‘s financial procedures, they were far easier to
        access and more immediately available. This easier access to grant funds inevitably
        resulted in local project managers having more incentives to deal with non-Bank donor
        projects because of the ease of access to funds and quick disbursement procedures.
        However, AusAID also had to wait over a year for their program document to be
        approved by GOI all the while under pressure from Menko Kesra to put the funds on
        budget.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design: Komnas FBPI was supposed to be responsible for monitoring overall project
progress, but specific staffing requirements and M&E systems were not defined. Plans were to be
prepared through collaboration involving central and provincial level officers, while expenditures
and activities would be monitored according to the plans of each implementer. This input and
output data was part of the project‘s data management system, though it did not constitute a
distinct and dedicated M&E system.

2.3.2 Implementation: During implementation, no staff were assigned specifically for M&E
and no project M&E system was installed. There is little evidence that the KPIs were measured
during the short period of project implementation (last eight months of the project).The Bank
team in Jakarta provided continual supervisory inputs to the DGLS and KOMNAS-FBPI teams to
resolve technical and other implementation issues, but since the budget issue was the overriding
issue, all attention was focused on getting that aspect functional first. The supervision provided
by the Bank‘s Jakarta team was continuous during 2007-08, but much of this was not
documented officially. All project related data including PDS/R and community vaccine
activities were handled by responsible sections/officers in charge. Output data on component A
and B are available from DGLS, while activities under component D were managed and
monitored by ILRI. The acceleration team under Kesra followed up the effectiveness of IEC with
a questioner-based scoring method and its findings are available.

2.3.3 Utilization: There is a database at DGLS of HPAI reported cases by networking 31
LDCCs. DGLS is now able to provide monthly up-dates of HPAI cases across the 31 provinces.
This database and system was largely supported by USAID/FAO. Contribution of the Bank to the
establishment was limited to advice given by the FAO assigned Chief Technical Adviser during
the assignment period. However, this was not set up in time to provide sufficient data for the
baseline and targets under the project.The database, however, continues to be used by the
Ministry of Agriculture and DGLS has sufficient capacity now to keep it updated and use it for
regular monitoring.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

2.4.1 The project was classified as a Category C (no EA required) and did not trigger any
safeguard policies.
                                                8
Procurement

2.4.2 The project implementers followed GOI‘s procurement procedures, which were in
accordance with the Bank‘s procurement guidelines and agreed between the GOI and Bank. The
sole-source contracts given to FAO and ILRI were a first for the GOI. Such precedents made
contracts proceed slowly, but they were eventually awarded as planned. No fiduciary issue
related to procurement that could potentially trigger Bank‘s objection was observed during the
implementation.

Financial Management

2.4.3 The financial management followed the agreement between the GOI and Bank. There was
one GOI audit in 2009 and one in June 2010. The 2009 audit found no financial management
issue but implementation issues. It pointed out (i) delay of budgeting preparation; (ii) delay of
disbursement; and (iii) lack of technical inputs. With the submission of the June 2010 audit, the
Bank found that fiduciary compliance was met during project implementation.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The Bank operation is only one element of an ongoing, overall program supported by the
national government and other international donors. While Bank no further Bank activities are
planned, there is a clear indication that a number of other donors will continue their support, and
the GOI is committed to continue developing the current national program (especially PDS/R,
targeted vaccination and IEC). Currently, DGLS has started further development of PDS/R to
move from the HPAI specific to animal-health PDS/R. For vaccination in 2010, IDR 3 billion
(US$330,000) was allocated to procure 10 million doses of HPAI vaccine for the second phase of
intensified vaccination program (In-Vak) in 10 districts where the project provided support.
While this represents only a tenth that was foreseen under the project, it does represent a
promising step. The national budget for 2011 is expected to have IDR 6 billion (US$660,000) to
procure 20 million doses for 20 districts including the project targeted 10 districts. DGLS‘s plan
is to support In-Vak for three years until 2012 and shift to ―self-reliance of vaccination‖ where
DGLS will guide and supervise the targeted vaccination in high risk areas while the local
government and individual poultry owners bear the costs of vaccination.

Overview of current HPAI Disease situation in Indonesia

2.5.2 HPAI was first suspected in August 2003 in a commercial layer flock and Indonesia
submitted its first HPAI outbreak notification in January 2004. By December 2004 poultry deaths
due to HPAI were estimated to be more than eight million in over 100 districts/cities. By the end
of 2005, the disease had spread to 23 provinces covering 151 districts/cities and registered over
10.45 million poultry deaths. By June 2009, 31 of the country‘s 33 provinces had been affected.
The disease is considered endemic in Java (especially DI Yogyakarta), Sumatra (Lampung),
Sulawesi and probably Bali. No cases have been reported since January 2009 in Kalimantan,
while Maluku, Papua and Nusa Tenggara have reported no cases since January 2008.

2.5.3 Indonesia continues to report a high number of H5N1 HPAI outbreaks in poultry
associated with antigenic sub-type Clade 2.1 and the country reported more outbreaks than the
rest of the world collectively. The high number of reports each month is partially explained by

                                                 9
the implementation of the PDS/R program that targets village poultry production systems (mainly
backyard) and reports evidence of virus circulation in the village.

Figure: Outbreaks of HPAI in Indonesia (January –December 2009) compared with the
rest of the world.




       Source: GOI/ECTAD Indonesia as cited in FAO (2010) AIDE NEWS No. 65, April 2010

2.5.4 The first human influenza case from H5N1 was confirmed in June 2005. This and other
cases in the ensuing months precipitated a heightened awareness and concern over the potential
impacts of HPAI in Indonesia and beyond. As of December 2009, 155 human
cases had been confirmed, with 129 fatalities. The absolute risk of humans becoming
infected is low, but the relative risk when compared to other countries is high. The persistent
spread and incidence of the disease in both animals and humans has been blamed on the
complexity and size of the Indonesian poultry sector, the weak capacity of government agencies
to deal with animal diseases, the relatively late recognition and support provided by donor
partners and, ultimately, in the entrenched risky behavior limiting the success of prevention and
intervention campaigns.

2.5.5 A recent survey assessed Indonesia‘s current capacity and remaining gaps and has
particular relevance to current and future donors as shown the table below.




                                                10
Table: Current status of six key activities for HPAI control in Indonesia.




       Source: FAO (2010) AIDE NEWS Number 65 for April 2010

2.5.6 The national HPAI program achieved significant progress on the prevention and control
of HPAI and the Bank project did well to collaborate early on with USAID and FAO to ensure
that activities on the ground were in place in accordance with the project design despite the
delays in actual project implementation. However, there is no doubt that the problem of HPAI
due to H5N1 will continue in Indonesia for some time. It must be understood that this is a
continually changing situation, which would require a flexible response from GOI and donors to
these ever-evolving changes.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objective

3.1.1 Since the peak in 2006, the cases of HPAI and human deaths have declined significantly
and increased awareness of HPAI risks has contributed to reducing the cases of human infections.
However, the number of human fatalities (146 out of 178 reported) continues to be high. The
mainstay of the Government‘s national strategy has been the vaccination program and the IECs
have also helped in raising awareness. Nevertheless, there are still many challenges in preventing
and controlling HPAI, and continuous public engagement is critical for the success of the national
program. The risk of future outbreaks is still high in Indonesia where HPAI is endemic. The
project objective remains relevant to the priorities of the GOI.

Relevance of Design

3.1.2 This project was prepared as an emergency pilot project in response to a quickly
worsening situation, and therefore was not reflected in the Bank‘s Country Assistance Strategy
nor based on a comprehensive sector strategy. The design intention to prepare an HPAI
prevention and control framework was valid at the time of project preparation, but it was no
longer relevant under the circumstances prevailing at the time of ICR. Given the fact that the

                                               11
PDS/R system and a targeted vaccination program have become the central pillars of the new
HPAI prevention and control strategy, these two elements of the design are still sound.

Relevance of Implementation

3.1.3 There have been Bank projects successfully implemented by national coordination
committees with a structure similar to Komnas FBPI. However, the implementation structure that
this project employed under Komnas FBPI did not work as envisioned in the project design. The
lengthy financial procedures of the national budget system to implement this emergency project
caused inordinate delays and the relevance of project implementation was diminished because
many of the needs that it was designed to address were no longer there by the time the project got
started.

3.1.4 The Bank‘s decision to strengthen national capacity for technical and management
preparedness for HPAI control emergency situation at all levels is valid. This support to develop
capacity in planning, policy making, and budgeting and procurement aspects reflected the
comparative advantage of the Bank. However, Komnas FBPI, under which this project operated,
was staffed by people with limited previous experience in implementing either Bank projects or
similarly complex projects, which undermined the relevance of having the project coordinated by
this new agency. In addition, lack of ownership of the project by Komnas FBPI exacerbated
delays in project implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 As mentioned above (see para 3.1.1), this ICR recognizes that the National HPAI
Prevention and Control Program as a whole has substantially strengthened GOI‘s capacity to deal
with HPAI. To some extent, the project contributed to these successes, as noted in paragraph
3.2.12, at the end of this section. However, the project‘s contribution to the entire national
program is considered limited, given the fact that the project was actively implemented for less
than one year in the field and the GOI failed to use the Project when it was most needed right
after the Project became effective. The following table summarizes the performance of each
component.

                            Table 2. Summary of Each Component Performance
         Component                        Main Achievements                       What was not implemented
 A. Participatory Animal       1. Helped to intensify PDS/R activities     1. It aimed to establish PDS/R in 12
 Disease Surveillance and      in 70 districts.                            HPAI high risk districts in Central Java.
 Response                      2. Helped to instill maintenance of         2. Instead, it worked in 70 districts
                               PDS/R at both the central and local         where HPAI risks were low and PDS/R
                               levels of government.                       had already been established.
                               3. The processes have led to capacity       3. With USAID funds, PDS/R in the 12
                               building among staff members and            HPAI high risk areas were established.
                               increased awareness of the importance
                               of PDS/R resulting in the development
                               of a new strategy to use PDS/R with a
                               wider focus to include other zoonoses.
 B. Community-Based            1. Trained 40 Community Vaccination         1. Did not procure vaccines (approx.
 Preventive Vaccination        Coordinators (KVM) and 680                  US$3 million)
                               Community Vaccinators (VM).
                               2. A ‗pilot‘ program of In-Vak in small-
                               scale layer flocks and intensively reared
                               native chicken flocks.

                                                        12
                                  4. A total of around 287,000 chickens
                                  were vaccinated.
                                  5. Socialization (community vaccination
                                  campaign) and profiling in the 10
                                  districts.
    C. Improving Culling          Not implemented
    Compensation System
    D. Impact Monitoring and      1. Implemented as planned with USAID       1. The study recommendations have not
    Evaluation of Control         funding. The project funding was used to   been integrated into the national strategy
    Strategies, and Targeted      reimburse the funds advanced to ILRI       for preventing and controlling HPAI,
    Epidemiological Studies       and FAO.                                   which was the main aim of the study.
    E. Poultry Sector             Not implemented
    Restructuring Option Study
    F. Coordination of AI         1. More than 3,000 people were trained     1. Coordination improved between
    Control and Pandemic          in IEC                                     District Surveillance Officers and
    Influenza Preparedness and                                               PDS/R, Ministries of health and
    Community-Based Public                                                   agriculture, the Ministry of People‘s
    Information Campaign                                                     Welfare (Menko Kesra) and KOMNAS-
                                                                             FBPI. IEC results good, but coordination
                                                                             outcomes mixed.2. Inactivity of Komnas
                                                                             FBPI in preparing and processing the
                                                                             budget hindered all project activities.

3.2.3 Participatory Animal Disease Surveillance and Response (Moderately
Unsatisfactory): The Bank played a key role to promote the concept and importance of PDS/R
during the design stage, but its role in implementation became marginal due to the project
implementing agencies inability to get the budget documents required by GOI procedures in
place. Thus, the contract given to FAO for providing technical assistance to DGLS was not
signed until December 2008. The late intervention meant a failure of demonstrating the Bank‘s
comparative advantage and value-added for activities in high risk areas.8

3.2.4 The data provided by DGLS show that it is receiving reports of dead chickens regularly
from communities in the 70 project districts, which implies the PDS/R system is working.
However, Project‘s inputs were limited to intensify PDS/R activities, which had already been
installed by DGLS and other donors, and therefore, it is unclear to what extent this outcome can
be attributed to the Project.

3.2.5 Community-Based Preventive Vaccination (Moderately Unsatisfactory): This
component was implemented in 10 of 16 high risk districts in West Java, Central Java and
Yogyakarta provinces, which had participated in OR. There was a total of four vaccination
campaigns each consisting of an initial (USAID support) and 3 booster rounds (by the Project). It
is important to note that the Bank funding (around US$3 million) was not used for procuring the
vaccines (vaccines used in this component were purchased with the USAID funding). Project
support was given only for the training of KVM and VM as well as the operation of In-Vak in the
10 districts. When the approval was given to procure vaccines in 2009, a new HPAI strain was
found, and thus procurement of vaccines was dropped due to DGLS‘s decision to suspend further
procurement of vaccines until a vaccine effective for the newly-mutated virus could be identified.



8
      Despite the fact that the project was inactive, DGLS was able to implement the same activities supposed to be
      carried out by the Project with USAID funding, which also provided a sole source contract to FAO. As a result,
      DGLS was able to achieve what needed to be achieved in the high risk areas under FAO‘s technical assistance.

                                                           13
3.2.6 Although DGLS now has a group of KVM and VM, it is uncertain to what extent their
skills will be used due to the limited availability of vaccines and operational budget under the
national budget. The majority of vaccines used in the In-Vak have been funded by donors so far,
and the national budget allocated in 2010 to procure vaccines is IDR 3 billion (US$330,000) to
provide only 10 million doses which is about one-tenth of the planned scale under the project,
and the budget does not include operational costs (see para 2.5.2). Furthermore, the failure of
vaccine procurement under the Project suggests that the lengthy national procurement procedure
resulted in unsatisfactory procurement of the vaccines.

3.2.7 Improving Culling Compensation System (Not Implemented): There are a couple of
reasons for the non-implementation of this component, according to the former Komnas FBPI
director. Culling compensation was seen as necessary during project preparation, but it was no
longer the case after project approval. While the culling compensation proposal was being
prepared and reviewed (April 2006 until July 2007), Komnas FBPI received (i) ample evidence
that poultry owners culled their chickens without compensation; and (ii) resistance from the local
government for the complex and expensive logistics and procedures to implement compensation
(i.e. poultry owners usually demand immediate compensation, but GOI needed to have validated
evidence of the value of birds that the poultry owners lost, which would usually take around six
months). It was judged that this time-lag and the series of difficult and costly procedures would
not be favored by both poultry owners and local governments, and as a result, a political decision
not to carry out this component was made (the timing of the decision is unclear). In addition,
there was little evidence that the GOI would continue paying compensation after the termination
of the project. There was political pressure that the GOI should not create precedents that they are
forced to follow after closure of donor projects. The ICR considers that the planned study at least
should have been carried out to assess the impact of culling poultry without paying compensation.

3.2.8 Impact Monitoring and Evaluation of Control Strategies, and Targeted
Epidemiological Studies (Moderately Unsatisfactory): This component was entirely
subcontracted to ILRI and carried out as planned under separate USAID and AusAID financing.
The Bank project‘s involvement was limited during the design and the booster vaccination stages.
There was a debate on the study design among the Bank, ILRI and FAO during the project
preparation, and there is further debate between ILRI and FAO on the interpretation and
conclusions emanating from the results of the study. This ICR neither judges the quality of study
design nor interpretation of results but notes that the study recommendations have not been
integrated into the national strategy for preventing and controlling HPAI. Unfortunately, this
study was carried out by ILRI without involving any national research institute, and thus was not
very useful for the capacity building of national institutions.

3.2.9 Poultry Sector Restructuring Option Study (Not Implemented): According to the
former Komnas FBPI director, this component had also become difficult to implement after the
project became effective in 2007. The same year, GOI issued ―The Jakarta By-law on the Raising
and Movement of Poultry,‖ with an aim to regulate the distribution, transportation, collection and
marketing of poultry. Komnas FBPI felt that the study to examine options to prepare such laws
was no longer necessary as the law had already become effective (see 2.2.1, fifth bullet point).

3.2.10 Coordination of AI Control and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Community-
Based Public Information Campaign (Moderately Unsatisfactory): There is little evidence
that Komnas FBPI was committed to carrying out this project. Poor coordination and
management of the project resulted in unsatisfactory performance of the Project. As a result of
                                                14
this inactive role by Komnas FBPI, Menko Kesra replaced it with the acceleration team toward
the end of the project. Under the limited circumstances given to this team, it did well but time
was too short.

3.2.11 According to data provided by the project, more than 3,000 people were trained in to
carry out IEC activities. Anecdotal evidence gathered during the ICR mission demonstrated that
many District Surveillance Officers (DSOs) and Community Facilitators (unpaid volunteers) are
active in preventing HPAI and keep communicating with poultry owners on basic hygiene issues,
potential risks of HPAI and best practices in small-scale poultry management. The Information
and Education Campaign (IEC) system is sound and the Project contributed to the maintenance of
the system. As an isolated activity, the achievement of IEC is remarkable, but as seen in the
context of the other components, it is uncertain to what extent the Project contributed to the
achievement of the overall national IEC.

3.2.12 In terms of the overall PDO of (i) controlling the HPAI infection at the source in its
domestic poultry sector; (ii) reducing HPAI circulating in the environment; and (iii) reducing
risks of human infection and of a violent mutated virus, the project partially achieved its
objectives especially (i) and (ii) through supporting GOI in its strategy through the following:

       Restructuring LDCCs to respond to HPAI quickly;
       Establishing effective PDS/R systems that respond to outbreaks quickly through a cadre
        of trained professionals;
       Building technical capacity among GOI staff members and community vaccinators in
        carrying out vaccination campaigns;
       Developing strategies to cope with HPAI as well as other zoonoses;
       Creating synergies between Ministry of Health and MOA through collaborative work
        between DSOs and PDS/R; and
       Implementing a community based HPAI-control IEC.

    However, due to the fact that there were other donors whose activities in parallel were also
    supporting this project‘s objectives, makes it difficult to quantify exactly the contribution of
    this project.
    

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 An economic rate of return was not estimated for the project at the time of appraisal, nor
was it calculated after its closure. For the reasons explained in Annex 3, it is not possible either to
carry out a formal ex-post economic analysis of the project based on the results obtained at the
time of its closure. Therefore, the discussion of economic and financial/ fiscal aspects is mainly
qualitative.

3.3.2 There is limited comprehensive data on the impacts of HPAI on the poultry sector in
Indonesia especially in the backyard poultry (Sector 4) targeted by the project. The value of birds
lost as such to HPAI during the 2003-04 HPAI crisis has been estimated at US$16-32 million, the
total direct loss to the broiler and layer breeders and producers at US$171 million and, after
adding indirect losses, the total goes up to US$387 million. However, these estimates do not
account for the losses incurred by village/ backyard farmers, i.e. Sector 4 which consists of an

                                                  15
estimated 30 million households keeping 200 million chickens. In general, the cost of controlling
HPAI is clearly justified even by simply comparing the estimated damages (above) incurred due
to HPAI; far greater if secondary costs and risk to human life are included.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.4.1 The overall outcome rating of the Project is unsatisfactory. It has been seen as a
problematic project both by the GOI and Bank throughout project implementation. The Project‘s
intention and technical design were sound at the time of the preparation, but it failed to build the
institutional structure based on the Bank‘s experiences to work with the national budget system
while elaborating detailed risk mitigation measures. Due to the late start-up of most of activities,
the Project was unable to achieve the PDO, with shortcomings in all components. Fortunately,
initiatives of other donors have substantially improved the technical aspects of HPAI prevention
and control—in a way, the other donors‘ projects helped the GOI to achieve this Project PDO
within their projects.

3.4.2 Unsatisfactory performance of this Project might imply that Bank‘s support to Indonesia
through the national budget may not work in an emergency disease control which would require
immediate actions. However, it is important to note that there are successful cases (i.e. Vietnam)
supported by the Bank. The Bank sent a strong message to national policy makers that any
emergency project should not only be limited to technical development but also to strengthen
planning and policy capacity development. Unfortunately this Project failed to demonstrate such
importance with its performance, but the Bank should not compromise this aspect.

3.4.3 The reasons given to forego using funds under Components C and E were interesting and
perhaps valid from the Government‘s perspective. However, the proposed studies under these
two components could have provided a useful discussion document for wider use among
stakeholders. It could have also supported the policies for not providing culling compensation
and the options regarding restructuring of the sector or otherwise. Considering no other donors
were interested in such reforms, this was a lost opportunity to carry out solid, analytic work on
the poultry sector/industry that would have been useful to GOI and other stakeholders.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The Project was elaborated in an emergency situation and its design focused on the
technical aspects of HPAI prevention and control. Poverty impacts, gender aspects and social
development were not explicitly included in its objectives. The Project is nonetheless thought to
have had an impact in these areas, due to the nature of its interventions. In the absence of specific
M&E activities, the actual specific impacts of the Project (and, more generally, of the whole
National Program for Control and Prevention of HPAI) on these aspects cannot be captured and
measured.




                                                 16
Poverty Impacts

3.5.2 Poultry plays a vital role in many rural households in Indonesia. It is an asset of many
households especially those who live on and below the poverty line. Poultry and poultry products
are a key source of animal protein, in the form of meat or eggs, and thus contribute to family
nutrition, particularly for children. They are sold or bartered for essential family needs such as
seeking medical treatment or buying medicines and clothes, or paying school fees. Improvements
in children‘s health have been linked to additional income earned by women in small-scale
backyard poultry keeping.

3.5.3 Project design had an indirect poverty focus as it focused on backyard poultry production,
which at the time was thought to be a main source of contamination and risks for human cases.
The activities implemented under the Project for the control and prevention of HPAI contributed
to reduce losses for this vulnerable group, as poor households rely relatively more on poultry as a
source of income than do other sectors of the community.

Gender Aspects

3.5.5 A significant number of smallholder and village poultry are reared by women. Women are
relatively more economically affected than men by the HPAI crisis, since they are often the ones
directly involved in the care and handling of poultry particularly in small-scale backyard
production. All socio-economic groups may have faced difficulties in accessing information
about the disease but the barriers were greatest for the poor and the women. Women face
particular problems and risks because of their direct contact with backyard poultry. The risk
factor increases as women have generally less education than men and they are the ones who are
usually exposed to the virus during cooking. The IEC has played an important role to reduce this
gender gap.

3.5.6 Women are in the frontlines of defense against the disease. With their traditional roles as
primary caretakers for backyard poultry, and for the health care of the family, their knowledge
about HPAI can effectively make a difference in reducing risks for their children and family, and
to society in general. Although no specific provision was made under the Project to conduct
activities specially directed towards women, a significant and growing number of animal health
specialists in the veterinary services are themselves women. Women have also been particularly
active as community volunteers in IEC.

Social Development

3.5.7 Although there is no specific indicator available, it is thought that the Project contributed
positively to social development, in particular through the PDS/R system. The communication
campaigns, aimed at generating stronger social awareness regarding the risks of HPAI and the
benefits of improved handling and poultry raising methods, added positively to this particular
aspect. The Project also contributed to the development and training of a network of village
vaccinators.

3.5.8 Under the PDS/R system, data are collected in the field through participatory methods,
progressively taking a village-level approach to work with all poultry farmers, traders and
community leaders within the village, to promote effective and efficient disease prevention and


                                                 17
control. The PDS/R activities also actively involve local governments and facilitate the links with
the official veterinary services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.9 The Project contributed to the capacity of some relevant government agencies involved.
In particular:

        The PDS/R approach—which has now been introduced in 9 provincial and 70 district
         livestock services (Dinas) in Kalimantan and Sulawesi, with USAID/FAO initially, and
         support of this Project for eight months in 2008 and early 2009—has strengthened the
         capacity of field animal health services in the Dinas. Most of the Dinas staff have seen
         their institutional reputation enhanced in the towns and villages served.

        The LDCCs, established under the national program with support of other donors, have
         enabled more effective communication and coordination between central and local
         governments within the highly decentralized Indonesian governance system.

3.5.10 There is, however, still a need to ensure the long-term sustainability of these positive
developments, through increased budget funding from the central government and cost-sharing at
the provincial and district government levels. The PDS/R system is also often viewed as an
external project, partly because it receives much of its funding from external sources.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.11 While the Project dealt only with HPAI, the scope of the animal health surveillance
system supported by the Project could easily be enlarged to other zoonoses and epizooties of
economic importance, which in fact has already started. This would also lead to higher potential
benefits, as well as enhanced commitment from GOI and beneficiaries and hence improved
prospects for sustainability.

3.5.12 Other positive outcomes would include the development of a network of village
vaccinators whose services are paid by the beneficiaries.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

4.1     As this Project is an integral part of the National HPAI control program, the risks
identified below are more from the National Program rather than from this specific Project.
Vaccination is an important component of the current program while current marketing practices
are regarded as the most important contributor to continuing outbreaks in poultry.

   (a)    Vaccination—the shift in government-funded and supported programs (i.e. free to
          poultry owners) to concentrate only on caged poultry in sectors 3 (and 4 where
          available) may exclude poor owners of village chickens who cannot afford housing.
          Even temporary (e.g. at night) containment would greatly facilitate the ability to
          vaccinate the majority of poultry in a village where the goal should be >80%. Risks

                                                18
         would be minimized by providing funding for materials so that these poorer poultry
         owners would be able to construct their own cages/enclosures.

   (b)   Marketing—there are thousands of traditional markets for the sale of poultry
         throughout Indonesia at the provincial, district, sub-district and village levels which
         employ tens of thousands of agents, transporters and traders. Due to the local consumer
         preference for live birds, they are the main commodity sold and are either slaughtered at
         the market or at home. Initial efforts have been made to ban live-bird markets but with
         limited success as customers need assurances that what they are buying is fresh and
         disease-free.

   (c)   Continued government commitment—given the continued high number, broad
         distribution, widespread prevalence and easily recognized importance of other
         infectious diseases of humans (dengue, malaria, hepatitis, tuberculosis), other zoonotic
         diseases (Rabies, Anthrax, SARS), other poultry diseases (Newcastle Disease, Fowl
         Cholera, Gumboro) and other livestock diseases (Haemorrhagic Septicaemia, PPR,
         classical swine fever) currently endemic in Indonesia, there is a real risk that HPAI will
         not be regarded as a high government priority.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1      Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated ―moderately unsatisfactory.‖
Despite the positive aspects of the Bank‘s performance during project preparation—the design
was built on best knowledge on HPAI at the time of project preparation—it failed to provide
detailed mitigation plans based on lessons, especially on project implementation that the Bank
had accumulated in Indonesia. It clearly anticipated risk factors, and listed these critical risks, but
in fact, all of them materialized during implementation. In addition, the design did not look at the
capacity of Komnas FBPI; which employed many freshly recruited college graduates, with little
experience in planning and budgeting procedures that require a long bureaucratic exposure. In
addition, it took more than 1.5 years after the Beijing conference to prepare the Project by which
time the numbers of HPAI cases had substantially declined and the sense of emergency felt by
the GOI in early 2006 had diminished. The lack of a formal preparation process even for an
Emergency Recovery Loan and the lack of a proper Project Appraisal Document/Project Paper
likely contributed to the subsequent problems in implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1.2 The ICR acknowledges the Bank team‘s frustration with the project‘s poor performance
despite the team‘s efforts to move it forward. Since the team was based in the Country Office, it
met with GOI staff and other donors on a regular basis, as well as with the FAO and ILRI
advisors. Moreover, there were numerous communications to the GOI expressing concern over
implementation issues, and indicating actions which needed to be taken. Nevertheless, very little

                                                  19
was achieved by such communications and as there was little, if any, initial activity: no formal
supervision missions were undertaken since there was little to supervise although there was
continual support being provided by the Jakarta-based Bank team. However, these active efforts
by the team were not documented in formal Aide- Memoires/and or BTORs during project
implementation and hence there was little documentation in the files.

5.1.2 There were discussions between the Bank team and the implementing agencies regarding
possible extension of the project closing date. There were also discussions around restructuring
during the EU-financed review mission of the AHIF projects in March/April 2009. However, it
was dropped due to the following reasons:

       Restructuring of the grants would have required going back to the GOJ and EU for the
        PHRD and AHIF, respectively. This would have taken time, but would probably have
        been possible for the AHIF grant. It may not have been possible for the PHRD grant,
        since this grant was already a restructuring of funding that had been approved earlier by
        the GOJ.

       However, restructuring would not have helped in 2008, since the GOI again failed to
        have the grants included in the budget documents, and implementation of any kind was
        paralyzed. There was an option to cancel the grants completely at end 2007, when this
        became apparent. However, Bank management was reluctant to withdraw the grants from
        the most severely affected country in the world.

       At the time of the discussions in 2009, it was understood (perhaps incorrectly) that the
        closing date of the HPAI grant could not be extended, which would have defeated the
        purpose of a restructuring or project extension. At a later point arrangements were made
        for a very limited extension to complete ongoing activities and close down the project in
        an orderly fashion.

       The Bank received another request for extending the closing date of the project through
        2010. However, due to the fact that the first extension (already granted as an exception
        when the project was in Unsatisfactory status) failed to yield the required actions on the
        part of the Government in a timely manner. It was also unclear if the second extension
        would actually provide enough time for the necessary vaccines to be procured and DGLS
        were unable to provide a firm commitment that this would be completed. The lack of
        capacity in KOMNAS-FBPI/Kesra and DGLS continued to be an issue that did not
        generate confidence. In view of these factors, the request for the second extension of the
        closing date was denied by Bank management.

5.1.3 Although Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) reports were regularly submitted, the
initial ISR was not archived until 18 months after project approval. While it correctly rated
overall implementation progress as unsatisfactory, the DO rating and all six components were
rated satisfactory, which contradicted the IP rating, reflected a failure to base ratings on actual
rather than anticipated conditions, and did not incorporate consideration of other factors, such as
relevance of the objectives and project design.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

                                                 20
5.1.4 Despite the fact that risks that materialized during project implementation were all
identified in the project design, the Bank compounded these risks with its own poor performance
and was not able to take corrective actions, restructure, or cancel the Project. Together with the
lack of active or regular supervision and reporting during implementation, overall Bank
performance is unsatisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 The Government performance in supporting the Project is rated “unsatisfactory‖. As the
number of fatal human cases remained low compared to other infectious diseases in Indonesia,
the GOI downgraded its priority against HPAI to a regular disease status. When the project stood
still after the effective date, no effective measures were put in place to ensure that the
implementing agencies, especially DGLS could use the grant funds expeditiously by putting the
budget on the fast track.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.2 There are two implementing agencies, Komnas FBPI (component C, E, and F) and (ii)
DGLS (component A, B, and D). Komnas FBPI was given an overall responsibility and
coordinating role as well as to prepare the budget and oversee implementation progress. It did
play a key role in the overall national program, but there is little evidence that Komnas FBPI
provided sufficient support to project implementation. The work given to DGLS was inevitably
affected by the slow response and poor performance of Komnas FBPI. The overall performance
of the two implementing agencies is rated as “moderately unsatisfactory,? merited by the
intensified final efforts of DGLS and Menko Kesra in achieving during the short final time period.
The results of the acceleration included: increased campaigns on avian influenza (AI) in rural
areas and strengthening institutions related to AI. The evaluation of the financial disbursement by
the Controlling Financial and Development Body (BPKP) for components C, E, and F was
satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.2.3 The GOI‘s initial commitment to control HPAI led to the establishment of Komnas FBPI
in 2006 and the preparation of the national plan. However, such a high level of commitment
diminished during the implementation of the Project. Although DGLS and Menko Kesra
accelerated project activities toward the end of the project period, it was too difficult for the two
agencies to recover what had been lost during the initial stages of the Project. The GOI insisted
on using the national budget system in project implementation but the results of the decision were
not properly followed up by the implementers, and failed to deliver the PDO. As such, an overall
rating of unsatisfactory is justified.


                                                 21
6. Lessons Learned

Indonesia-specific

6.1     Closer coordination with MOF is critical during project preparation. The Bank has a
long history of having problems working with the national budget system in Indonesia and
unsurprisingly, this project faced the same problem. In addition, the Project was designed to have
four special accounts, which was unusual for MOF and this problem persisted for a long period of
time. All of budget related issues could have been avoided if there had been greater coordination
with MOF during project preparation.

6.2     Multiplicity of implementing agencies is detrimental to speedy implementation. The
key factor that led to major delays in implementation was the fact that three agencies were
involved—the Ministry of Agriculture, KOMNAS FBPI, and the Coordinating Ministry of
People‘s Welfare (Kemenko Kesra)—and their coordination was weak. This was compounded by
the fact that KOMNAS FBPI was not a line agency and hence budget releases proved to be even
more cumbersome. Given the fact that the project focused mainly on animal health, the project
objectives may have been better served by having just the DGLS/Ministry of Agriculture as the
sole implementing agency, especially given the emergency nature of the Project.

6.3     Lack of experience in implementing agencies: The multiplicity of implementing
agencies was compounded by the fact that none of these agencies had any familiarity with Bank
procedures and processes. Training in advance for key project management staff in Bank
fiduciary procedures could have helped in accelerating project implementation. The
implementing agencies also need to have a clear understanding of fund disbursement mechanisms
and requirements under their own national and Bank procedures if there is no prior experience
within the implementing agencies.

6.4     Operational Research (OR) carried out under the project has been implemented by
ILRI largely in isolation. OR did not involve any national research institute. Instead, it did use
the field veterinary staff as mere enumerators. It would have been desirable to involve national
research institutes in research design and interpretation, in order to ensure efficiency and
sustainability of the research efforts that will continue to be needed for the analysis of HPAI
control strategies.

6.5     Lack of technical capacity to ensure adequate supervision. Despite the limited time
that the project was actually operational, it would have been useful for both the Bank and GOI to
include sufficient technical expertise in the Bank team to carry out official supervision missions
and a mid-term review mission.

General lessons on animal disease control and the Bank’s response

6.6    Move away from specific disease interventions: As seen in the use of PDS/R for the
animal health surveillance system, this trend should be well recognized to create a system of One
Animal-Health Concept for the Bank‘s future interventions in this sector. Similarly, the Bank
should recognize and support the transition toward a broader surveillance and control strategy of
transboundary animal diseases.



                                                22
6.7      Selection of best match financial instruments according to the situation of the
recipient countries and other donors’ responses. Because of the initially perceived threat of a
potential global human pandemic outbreak of influenza, the project was regarded as an
emergency but this was a mismatch for the Bank‘s modality to integrate the grants into the
national budget system without the nationally recognized emergency status of HPAI in the
country. While other donors were better situated to respond more quickly, GOI staff, especially
managers, became saturated with the work implemented by other donors. The Bank project that
required cumbersome procedures to receive funds was understandably given lower priority by the
managers. When the Bank sees that other donors are pouring their direct funding under an
emergency, the Bank needs to choose carefully financial instruments and a modality based on an
institutional analysis of possible time allocations by the implementers.

6.8      Does the Bank need to be present in an emergency situation when the issues require
a specific technical framework at first? Or should the Bank wait to see how such a
framework is being established and can be scaled-up, while preparing a project? Once the
budget issues were solved, the Project played an important role in expansion (PDS/R in 70
districts and intensification of In-Vak). The donor community was also able to demonstrate its
ability to work together to address a perceived emergency under the entire program, whose
framework was built by the proactive role played by the Bank for sharing the project design.
Such coordination was essential where a number of individual specific projects funded by
bilateral donors or UN special agencies were quickly responding to the situation. This
coordination must be handled carefully to prevent any overlap in services, contradiction of inputs,
and the infringement of professional or national interests. But at the same time, donors‘ pledges
must also be met with the same speed to ensure that there are no disruptions in the national
program. Based on the experience gained in this project, the Bank needs to examine its role in
HPAI operation throughout the region and revise its modality for supporting animal-related
disease control and preparedness accordingly.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agency Partners

The GOI was advised of its responsibility for preparing a Borrower‘s Completion Report by both
the Bank supervision team and the ICR team, but did not provide the Bank with its own
completion report. The Coordinating Ministry of People‘s Welfare and the Ministry of
Agriculture provided comments on an earlier draft of the Bank‘s ICR and a specific mention was
made of the the proposed HU rating for Government performance. The Bank team subsequently
discussed the ratings and decided to upgrade the rating slightly to U. Annex 7 provides a full text
of the comments received.

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate        Actual /Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
         Components
                                      (US$M)                        (US$M)
A. Participatory Animal Disease
                                          3.01                        1.03                     34%
Surveillance and Response
B. Community-based Preventive
                                          5.73                        1.29                     23%
Vaccination


                                                       23
C. Culling Compensation
                                            2.95                   0                      0%
System
D. Project Impact Monitoring
                                            0.83                0.79                    96%
and Evaluation
E. Poultry Sector Restructuring
                                            0.24                   0                      0%
Options Study
F. Coordination of HPAI
control, Pandemic Influenza
Preparedness, and Community-                2.25                0.64                    29%
based Public Information
Campaign
            Total Project Costs            15.00                3.75                   25%

(b)     Financing

                                                    Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                                                                Percentage of
        Source of Funds        Type of Financing    Estimate      Estimate
                                                                                 Appraisal
                                                     (US$M)       (US$M)
        Avian and              WB-administered TF      10.00         1.81           18%
        Human Influenza
        Facility (EU)
        Population and         WB-administered TF      5.00            1.94         39%
        Human Resources
        Development
        Fund (Japan)
        Total                                         15.00            3.75         25%




                                                     24
Annex 2: Outputs by Components


1. Component A: Participatory Animal Disease Surveillance and Response
(Estimate: US$3,010,000, Actual US$1,034,017: 34%)

1.1      This component commenced in May 2009 and continued until end of project on 31st
December 2009. The main purpose of this component was to establish PDS/R9 in 12 high risk
districts. As planned, FAO was contracted to provide technical guidance, operational support and
the employment of technical staff, while DGLS disbursed project funds through its national
budget system. The project design intended to cover 12 districts in high risk areas, but it resulted
to work with 70 districts (kabupatens) in Kalimantan (Banjarbaru, Palangkaraya, Pontianak,
Samarinda), Sulawesi (Gorontalo, Kendari, Manado, Palu) and Nusa Tengarra Barat (Mataram,
Lombok). Due to its late start-up, its activities were to take over and intensify activities that were
initially developed by other projects. A total of 140 PDS/R staff were trained and supported to
undertake active surveillance for HPAI in 70 districts. During the life of the project, 1,053
villages were visited, from a total of 12,587 (8% of the total). Of these, 5 were confirmed as
being infected, 16 as under control, 87 under monitoring and 945 as apparently free of HPAI. The
table below shows PDS/R HPAI cases detected nationwide.

Figure 1: PDSR HPAI Surveillance case numbers – 07/08 (old database), 08/09 (new data base)




          Cited from FAO (2010) AIDE NEWS Number 65 for April 2010

1.2     During their village visits, the PDSR teams increased awareness, knowledge and
understanding of HPAI of the village communities, established close working relations with the
local animal health posts (pusat kesehatan hewan) and provincial HPAI control centres (LDCCs)
and improved communication on disease status between all levels of government. Anecdotal
evidence show, however, many of community members are still not aware of PDS/R and some
mentioned that they do not report to the government when they find dead chickens even in an


9
    Indonesia‘s PDS/R has recently been recorded in the prestigious international journal dedicated to avian health
    ―Avian Diseases‖ Vol 54 (2010): pages 749-753 in a paper entitled ―Participatory Disease Surveillance and
    Response in Indonesia: Strengthening Veterinary Services and Empowering Communities to Prevent and Control
    Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza‖ by M.Azhar, Ade S Lubis, Elly Sawitri Siregar, Robyn G Alders, Eric
    Brum, James McGrane, Ian Morgan and Peter Roeder with specific acknowledgement of World Bank support.

                                                        25
HPAI free district. On the other hand, they seem to understand risks associated to HPAI and
knowledge of not-to-touch dead chickens appeared well shared among community members.

1.3     Establishment of PDS/R has been one of the major highlights of not only this project but
also others initiated by FAO through funding from USAID and AusAID. The institutionalisation
of PDS/R activities, within the DGLS, provincial and district livestock offices, is having
enormous benefits for the control of not only HPAI but also all other infectious diseases of
poultry and livestock. It would be strongly advisable for this activity to continue for both the
early detection of disease or, alternatively, for the provision of evidence that the disease is indeed
absent in specific areas. During field visits undertaken by the mission it was obvious that local
government at both the provincial and district levels were keen to maintain PDS/R activities
utilising their own funds.

2. Component B: Community-based Preventative Vaccination
(Estimate: US$5,725,000, Actual US$1,290,771 : 23%)

2.1     Given the prevalence of HPAI due to H5N1 and the complexity of poultry production
systems in Indonesia, vaccination has become an important component of the national disease
control programme. The project supported two specific vaccination activities, the Operational
Research (see under Component D below) from January 2008 until July 2009) and Intensive
Vaccination (In-Vak) from August 2009 until December 2009. Expenditure was directed at field
operations of three booster rounds for about 270,000 chickens, but no vaccine was procured; the
latter coming from USAID. Under this component, the project also trained 40 KVM and 640 VM.

2.2      There are currently 20 HPAI vaccines registered for use in poultry in Indonesia. The
current preference is for Legok, manufactured by Medion, a private company in Bandung.
Recently, a variant strain of H5N1 has been identified in commercial poultry. The prevalence of
this variant in poultry in sectors 3 & 4 is unknown but there is evidence of continuous genetic
drift in indigenous isolates of H5N1. Given the current situation of HPAI in Indonesia,
government authorities prefer to use this strain in all future vaccination programmes. It is
understood that a foreign operative has adapted this strain to produce a seed isolate which is
currently ready for vaccine production and an offer has evidently been made to GOI to make this
available to a local vaccine producer. The Campaign Management Unit , set up in the DGLS to
coordinate the overall HPAI program, advised the mission that such a vaccine could be available
for local use by August 2010.

2.3      In-Vak has concentrated on parent stock and layer flocks surrounding infected premises
(both small holders and villages). Practical problems identified during the campaign included the
difficulties in capturing unrestricted scavenging village chickens and the stressing of quail during
the procedure. One positive outcome from the project was the understanding and implementation
of an effective cold chain for the distribution of vaccine from central to provincial and district
disease control centres. The project procured refrigerators and polystyrene cold boxes to support
this activity. This output will obviously have broader benefits for the storage and distribution of
other vaccines used in the control of other diseases of poultry and livestock. Local authorities in
one district visited advised that, following an intensive HPAI vaccination campaign, there was an
observable increase in the number of poultry owners, the number of poultry/owner, the number of
poultry confined in cages, and the amount of poultry meat and eggs consumed. At the same time,
the price of chickens under vaccination could fetch higher prices than non-vaccinated.


                                                  26
2.4      Along with other interventions, specific targeted vaccination will continue to be an
important component of the Indonesian national disease control programme for some time. Given
the well recognised genetic instability of influenza viruses, it is absolutely necessary for the
disease control authorities and decision makers in Indonesia to be aware of the antigenic
characteristics of H5N1 (and other) influenza strains circulating in the poultry populations to
ensure that vaccines used are appropriate to ensure adequate protection from infection. In
addition, current vaccines are highly heat labile necessitating an effective cold chain and having a
relatively short shelf-life thus requiring regular procurement of smallish quantities. Funding
specifically allocated for vaccine procurement from this project was not utilised for a number of
reasons, including adequate supplies received from other donor projects and genetic drift of
indigenous viruses. It is apparent that Indonesia is about to require significant quantities of
vaccine specifically targeted against the recently recognised variant strain. Follow-up measure
should be serious consideration to providing adequate funding for regular vaccine procurements
at least over the next 3 years.

3. Component C: Culling Compensation System
(Estimate: US$2,950,000, Actual US$0: 0%)

3.1      Culling and disposal of poultry affected by H5N1 virus and those assessed to be at high-
risk of infection, is an important component of the national HPAI control programme and will
continue to be for some time. As such actions are for the ―common good‖ and are detrimental and
of obvious cost to the affected poultry owner, many other countries have traditionally practiced
compensation to farmers who have had their poultry destroyed with the understanding that this
will encourage early notification of disease outbreaks to ensure rapid containment and control.

3.2     Initially in the current HPAI outbreak, the GOI apparently paid some degree of
compensation to affected farmers but this became extremely difficult, unwieldy and unacceptable
to both poultry owners and local governments. The government thus decided to cease payment of
compensation. As a result, this component of the project was not implemented nor expenditure
committed (see para 3.2.7 of the main text).

3.3     The mission was advised that this has had little, if any, impact on the notification of
outbreaks by poultry owners as the latter are more concerned with the health and well-being of
their families and communities. PDS/R teams persuade affected farmers to cull infected and
exposed poultry for the social benefit of the community and the population understands the
important zoonotic implications of H5N1. Given that this WB project is concentrating on sectors
3 (small holders) and 4 (back-yard) producers, this concern is of particular relevance and
compensation for culled birds is of less significance when dealing with a zoonotic disease.

4. Component D: Impact Monitoring and Evaluation of Control Strategies and Targeted
Epidemiological Studies
(Estimate: US$825,000, Actual US$787,974: 96%)

4.1     The major part of this component was an “Operational Research Project in Indonesia for
more Effective Control of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza? (ORIHPAI). This activity was
originally conceived by DGLS, USAID and the World Bank in 2006 in response to the lack of
any apparent reduction in the prevalence of HPAI in Indonesia up to that time. The program was
originally to ―evaluate suites of control responses implemented as on-going field activities to
suppress HPAI‖ and the expected outcome was a ―field response that led to suppression of virus
                                                27
circulation in a verifiable manner‖. The component was implemented through a research contract
with the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI). ILRI was requested to design the
overall program, supervise data collection and analyse results; FAO was responsible for
supporting the GOI to implement control strategies; John Snow International (USAID) was
responsible for the provision of procurement and logistical support; this WB project was
responsible for funding the analyses and reporting. The actual design was subsequently changed,
became more restricted, concentrating mainly on an evaluation of vaccination strategies rather
than assessing the impact of other interventions and control measures being undertaken at that
time (eg quarantine, confinement, culling, disinfection, bio-security, movement control, etc.). The
final report of results and conclusions, running to a total of 780 pages, was strongly criticised by
collaborating organisations and considered unsuitable and of limited value for the decision
makers in Indonesia. Unfortunately, the OR did not involve a collaborative research institute in
Indonesia (eg Balitvet) and field operatives interviewed by this mission appeared to have little
understanding of the project‘s design. Furthermore, the mission became aware of friction
between the two major operatives which would have seriously restricted the beneficial aspects of
this project.

5. Component E: Poultry Sector Restructuring Options Study
(Estimate: US$240,000, Actual US$0: 0%)

5.1     The mission was advised that this component was included in the original project design
to specifically study the situation of poultry production and marketing. Before the project became
operational, the Jakarta administration had passed a law to ban free-range chicken production and
wet markets in Jakarta. So, in effect, the law was passed before the study to justify it was
undertaken, thus making this component of the project redundant. Therefore, this component was
not implemented and there was no financial expenditure nor commitment.***

5.2      The government‘s revised strategy is to concentrate on sectors 3 (smallholder) and 4
(backyard) of the national poultry production systems while sectors 1 (highly intensive, vertically
integrated) and 2 (highly intensive, privately owned) in the private sector are largely left to their
own devices. To assist in control of HPAI (and other infectious diseases of poultry), the
government is encouraging confinement of poultry in cages or pens within the village. In addition,
it is universally recognized throughout the country that marketing and movement of live poultry
is a significant contributor to the continued presence of the disease.

6. Component F: Coordination of HPAI control, Pandemic Influenza Preparedness, and
Community-based Public Information Campaign
(Estimate: US$2,250,000, Actual US$641,892: 29%)

6.1     Other than the expenditure for Komnas FBPI‘s coordination activities, all activity under
this component was directed at IEC programs. Field visits undertaken by the mission revealed an
active and comprehensive public information campaign. However, there were still many poultry
owners unaware of potential risks of HPAI due to their poor management of poultry. According
to data provided by the project, the project trained more than 3,000 people in two-day training
sessions conducted in districts and municipalities.

6.2     The implementation of this, in addition to other donor HPAI projects, appears to have
assisted with overall coordination of HPAI control under the National Programme. There is good
evidence of strong cooperative and coordinated activities between human and animal health
                                                28
authorities at the subdistrict, district and provincial levels. Thus information on outbreaks in
poultry detected by livestock staff is rapidly shared with their counterparts in the human health
sectors and vice-versa for detected human cases.

6.3     Unlike other countries affected by H5N1, the (Human) Health Ministry was not involved
in this WB project and presumably receives adequate support from other sources. The mission
was advised that, similarly, a National Preparedness Plan for Pandemic Preparedness has been
developed by others with coordination from Komnas FBPI.




                                                29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. Background – the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Crisis

1.1     The outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), which began in late 2003 in
several Southeast Asian countries and occurred thereafter in Europe, have had an important
negative impact on the poultry industry in these two regions and have raised serious global public
health concerns, including fears over the potential emergence of a human pandemic that might
have devastating effects on human health and livelihoods.

1.2     At the same time, there are many uncertainties about whether and when a pandemic might
occur, as well as about its potential impact. In the 20th century, influenza pandemics occurred in
1918, 1957 and 1968. It is impossible to anticipate when the next influenza pandemic may occur
or how severe its consequences might be. Humans are highly sensitive to the Asian H5N1 strain
(high mortality rates), but not very susceptible to infection. Current fears over a possible
influenza pandemic are fueled largely by the persistence of this highly virulent strain of avian
influenza in Asia and its potential capacity to mutate in ways that would allow sustained human-
to-human transmission.

1.3     Studies of the economic impact of the HPAI crisis have shown that the countries of East
and Southeast Asia have been especially hard hit. Losses have not only been sustained by farmers
but also by others in the value chain, including traders and feed suppliers. Poor poultry keepers
have been most affected. The total losses accruing from the damaged poultry sector in Asia is
estimated at around US$10 billion.10 From late 2003 to mid-March 2009, WHO reported 411
human cases in the world (including 327 in Asia) of which 256 were fatal (221 in Asia). H5N1
infection in humans remains relatively rare, but when it occurs such infections have been
frequently fatal, with a case/fatality rate well over 60%.

2. HPAI Control and Prevention Measures

2.1     The HPAI virus is transmitted by direct contact with feces or secretions of infected birds
or by consumption of (or contact with) contaminated meat or eggs, or indirectly via contaminated
feed, water, or materials. Highly pathogenic strains like H5N1, which has spread across Asia, are
transmitted between birds by direct contact and are also transmissible from birds to humans. As
yet, there are no documented cases of direct human-to-human transmission of H5N1. However, a
mutation of the virus and ultimate person-to-person infection could trigger a global pandemic.

2.2       The measures available to prevent, control and eliminate the HPAI virus are:
         Effective disease surveillance for early detection of outbreaks in poultry.
         Enhanced biosecurity of poultry farms and associated premises.
         Control of movement of birds.
         Changes to industry practices (production, marketing) to reduce risk.

10
     Source: World Bank. This is calculated on the basis of over 150 million poultry destroyed as the result of the
     2003 and 2004 Asian HPAI outbreaks. It includes direct and indirect economic impact and trade losses for the
     region as a whole.

                                                          30
      Rapid destruction of infected poultry (culling).
      Disposal of carcasses in a biosecure and environmentally acceptable manner.
      The proper use of vaccination.

2.3     Countries can institute some of these measures, such as enhancing surveillance and
biosecurity and changing industry practices, over the medium to long term to prevent the
disease and soften its long-range impact, or eradicate the virus from the population if the
infection is already present.

2.4     The tools available to combat the disease in the short term are destruction of stock (and
control of poultry movement) and vaccination.

2.5     One choice that countries have to make in their HPAI control plans and strategies is
whether or not to use vaccination as an additional tool to support stamping out. The use of
vaccines has been limited by fears that the disease could spread further through trade, and the
banning of entry of poultry from vaccinating countries. On the other hand, it is very difficult and
very expensive to control an HPAI outbreak solely by stamping out stock in high bird density
regions, since so much of the bird population would have to be slaughtered. Consequently,
countries have been exploring more effective vaccination options, though export ban issues have
yet to be resolved and are of particular concern to exporting countries.

2.6     It has often been argued that for HPAI stamping out programs to work, they must be
coupled with a compensation scheme to pay poultry farmers a specified sum for each infected
bird that is culled. If producers know that they will be compensated for lost stock, they are more
likely to report infected birds rather than sell them to cut their losses when faced with HPAI
symptoms. Compensation would then play a critical role in early detection and eradication of
outbreaks.

2.7     The success of vaccination and stamping-out as HPAI control measures depend on
another set of medium- to long-term measures that cannot be improvised after an outbreak, as
they take time and require pre-crisis investment. These longer-range measures, when properly
implemented, heighten the effectiveness of control measures like vaccination and stamping-out.
They include mainly:

      Strengthening of animal disease surveillance systems.
      Improved coordination of prevention planning and preparedness between agricultural and
       public human health institutions.
      Strengthening of tools and measures to control and manage HPAI outbreaks.

3. Economic Analysis of HPAI Control and Prevention

3.1     Ex-ante analyses of HPAI control and prevention measures have been carried out in the
wake of the 2003-04 crisis. Usually, these analyses have considered the full set of comprehensive
measures to be taken by a country, i.e. the overall national HPAI control and prevention plan,
since these various measures are in general complementary and need to be implemented all
together in order to be effective in the medium to long term.



                                                31
3.2      In these analyses, the costs of control and prevention measures are compared with the
corresponding economic benefits, i.e. the reduction in economic losses (or costs) from the disease
that is obtained as a result of these measures.

3.3      Some of these analyses do take into account the hypothetical costs of a possible human
pandemic. The most direct impact of such a pandemic would be through the impact of increased
illness and mortality on the size and productivity of the human labor force. Another significant
set of indirect economic impact would result from the uncoordinated efforts of private individuals
to avoid becoming infected or to survive the results of an infection (resulting in a demand shock
for services sectors such as tourism, mass transportation, retail sales, and increased business costs
due to workplace absenteeism, disruption of production processes and shifts to more costly
procedures). A last set of economic impacts are those associated with government‘s policy efforts
to prevent the epidemic, contain it, and mitigate its harmful effects on the population.

3.4     Often, it is recognized that containing and eradicating the virus would be a desirable
objective even if the problem were restricted to one of animal health in a given country. So far,
the HPAI crisis has remained mainly an animal health crisis. Economic costs that need to be
considered in this regard include:

      Death of poultry due to the disease and to culling, with losses affecting not only farmers
       but also upstream and downstream sectors such as poultry traders, feed mills, breeding
       farms etc.
      Costs to the government of containing the disease outbreak, including hiring workers for
       culling and cleanup, surveillance and diagnosis, hire of transportation and purchase of
       poultry vaccines, medications, etc.
      Secondary or indirect effects especially due to the fear of human transmission resulting,
       for example, in a reduction of consumer demand for poultry products, trading bans and/or
       a negative impact on activities such as tourism.

Distributional and social impacts also need to be evaluated. Relevant factors include:

      The structure of the poultry industry and the relative importance of smallholder versus
       large scale industrial production. In the former case many households will experience
       losses, but the effect may be cushioned by their having other sources of income.
       Nevertheless, poor households may still be hurt more if they derive more of their income
       from poultry or if poultry losses force them below key subsistence margins.
      Distributional consequences of higher prices paid by consumer for poultry, eggs and their
       substitutes.
      The nature of the government‘s policy (or lack of policy) for compensation of poultry
       owners whose birds are culled.

3.5     Whenever a quantitative economic analysis is carried out – i.e. calculation of Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IERR) or Net Present Value (NPV) of investments made for HPAI
prevention and control – a main assumption consists in assessing the probability of occurrence
of specific events and their impact on the animal (and possibly human) population and
production. Typically, several scenarios are presented in the analysis, corresponding to low,
medium or high impact. For instance, estimates are made of the average poultry mortality and
culling rates ―with‖ and ―without‖ the HPAI control measures supported by the project or plan.
Alternatively, the costs of an AI outbreak are estimated on the basis of experience from the 2003-
                                                 32
04 crisis, and the economic analysis is based on ―guesses‖ about the probability of such an HPAI
outbreak ―with‖ and ―without‖ the project. These guesses are not estimates based on scientific
methods, simply because statistics on the HPAI or similar diseases do not exist.

3.6     In reality, the dynamics of the rapid spread and persistence of HPAI virus, as well as the
magnitude of its possible impact on poultry stocks and production, remain most unclear.
Therefore the assumptions made under the various economic analysis scenarios are highly
arbitrary and speculative, even when the analysis is limited to animal health aspects based on
experience from the 2003-04 crisis. When estimates are made about the costs and probabilities of
a possible human pandemic, parameters become totally imaginary.

3.7     Another basic underlying assumption of the ex-ante economic analyses of HPAI is that
for any level of expenditure on disease prevention and control, that expenditure is undertaken in a
way that maximizes economic benefits. To ensure this, however, is often not an easy task. For
instance, the effectiveness and hence actual benefits of stamping out or a vaccination campaign
depend on factors such as timeliness, acceptance or adoption by a sufficient number of farmers,
etc. Similarly, the actual need for a compensation system to support culling measures may
depend on a number of cultural and other factors including the degree of awareness and
sensitivity of poultry owners towards the risk for human transmission of the disease to their
family. Unless these parameters are monitored and true costs assessed on the basis of experience
in a given country, the economic analysis of HPAI prevention and control measures may be
based on purely theoretical (and potentially illusory) assessment of actual benefits derived from
these measures.

3.8     In general, even when confining the analysis to the effects solely on animal production,
the ex-ante economic analyses carried out so far indicate that economic benefits would exceed
costs by a very large margin. In some scenarios taking into account the impact of a possible
human pandemic, the benefits of HPAI prevention and control are estimated to exceed the costs
by a factor of over 100.

3.9     In these circumstances, a traditional economic analysis of the project costs and benefits is
not particularly useful. .The most useful economic analysis would consist in assessing the
relative cost-efficiency of alternative measures to prevent or control an HPAI outbreak and a
possible pandemic, with a view to identifying least-cost measures to achieve the objective of
HPAI control and prevention.

3.10 A main related issue is the financial/ fiscal sustainability of HPAI control and
prevention measures. These measures are often costly and involve significant recurrent costs
which are expected to be covered by national governments. As governments are faced with other
conflicting priorities – including other concrete animal and human health issues that are of much
more pressing and actual concern both to governments and rural producers – their commitment
and ability to effectively meet the recurrent costs of HPAI prevention and control measures are
sometimes questionable. While awareness was heightened during 2003-04 crisis, since then
―HPAI fatigue‖ has started creeping over the years. The issue is then to reduce the overall costs
of HPAI prevention and control in a sustainable way in the long term.




                                                 33
4. Poultry sector in Indonesia

4.1     Indonesia has a dynamic and diverse set of poultry enterprises, ranging from the highly
industrial, through the small scale semi-intensive broiler and layer enterprises, to the scavenging
backyard poultry. These often interconnected enterprises play a very important role in providing
protein of animal origin to the diet of Indonesians.

4.2     Based on the type of business and the level of bio-security, the poultry sector in Indonesia
has been divided into 4 categories. Sector 1 is a highly organised industrial poultry system. This
sector of the poultry industry group reportedly implements a high level of biosecurity and its
products are sold in urban areas and some are exported. Sector 2 comprises poultry business
groups that enter the commercial poultry production system and implement mid- to high-levels of
biosecurity. Their products are sold in both urban and rural areas. Sector 3 is the group of poultry
farm businesses which are very similar to those in sector 2, but have a weaker financial base, and
as a consequence a low level of biosecurity which is less regularly applied; producers in this
sector often have lower and more variable levels of other inputs. Sector 4 is the backyard keeping
of poultry, often done as a subsistence or hobby enterprise, with little if any in the way of inputs,
and no biosecurity. This type of poultry keeping is usually found in rural villages and in peri-
urban and urban residential areas; it is often a side-business for extra income or for home
consumption of poultry.

4.3     In 2008, total poultry population in Indonesia was estimated at 1.522 billion head, of
which 70.7%, 19.1%, 7.7% and 2.4% were broilers, village chickens (almost 300 million head),
layers and ducks. In the years of 2006, 2007 and 2008, there has been a consistent continuous
growth (7-15% annually) in the poultry population.

4.4      About 80,000 poultry farms, holding 60 percent of the total national commercial broiler
and layer production are located in Java, followed in number by Sumatra. Since most of the
poultry infrastructure (comprising feed mills, abattoirs, cold storage and urban markets) is located
on these two islands, the industry has shown little incentive to move to outlying regions, to which
it transports eggs and live birds. Consequently, most H5N1 influenza cases in both animals and
human have been concentrated in these two islands.

5. Economic impact of the HPAI crisis in Indonesia

5.1    Even though Indonesia submitted its first avian influenza outbreak notification in January
2004, HPAI was suspected in August 2003 in a commercial layer flock. By December 2004
poultry deaths were estimated to be more than 8 million in over 100 districts/cities. By the end of
2005, the disease had spread to 23 provinces covering 151 districts/cities and registered over
10.45 million poultry deaths. By June 2009, 31 of the country‘s 33 provinces had been affected.

5.2    In Indonesia, the first human influenza case from H5N1 was confirmed in June 2005. This
and other cases in the ensuing months precipitated a heightened awareness and concern of the
potential impacts of HPAI in Indonesia and beyond. By December 2005, 20 human cases were
confirmed with 13 fatalities. As of December 2009, 155 human cases have been confirmed with
129 fatalities (i.e. the highest case fatality rate in the world). The absolute risk of humans
becoming infected is low, but the relative risk when compared to other countries is high.


                                                 34
5.3     In 2009, Indonesia reported more than one thousand outbreaks in domestic poultry,
qualifying the country as the most infected country in the world.11 The disease is considered
endemic in Java, Sumatra, Sulawesi and Bali (i.e. provinces where active cases have been
reported in the last six months). No cases have been reported since January 2009 in Kalimantan,
while Maluku, Papua and Nusa Tenggara have reported no cases since January 2008.

5.4     There is limited comprehensive data on the impacts of HPAI on the poultry sector in
Indonesia especially in Sector 4. An FAO survey indicates that in the most seriously affected
parts of Indonesia more than 20 percent of permanent industrial and commercial farm workers
lost their jobs. The Indonesian Poultry Information Centre estimated the value of birds lost as
such to HPAI during the crisis at US$16-32 million, the total direct loss to the broiler and layer
breeders and producers at US$171 million and, when indirect losses are added, the total goes up
to US$387 million or a factor of two.

5.5     These estimates do not account for the losses incurred by village/ backyard farmers, i.e.
Sector 4 which consists of an estimated 30 million households keeping 200 million chickens.
Small commercial and backyard producers lost the least in absolute terms, but the most relative to
their assets and income.

6. International support for HPAI prevention and control in Indonesia

6.1     FAO is by far the most active agency supporting the Government of Indonesia in
controlling HPAI. Its activities are funded by USAID, AusAID, Japan and the Netherlands.
Agencies such as UNICEF (funded by Japan and Canada), ILRI (funded by USAID and the
World Bank), CBAIC (funded by USAID), ACIAR (funded by the Government of Australia),
US$A and the Indonesian Dutch Partnership (funded by the Netherlands) also have programs
supporting HPAI control in Indonesia.

6.2    The AHIF (funded largely by the EU) and PHRD (Japan) grants managed by the World
Bank have been implemented by government agencies (DLGS, KONMAS), FAO and ILRI.
Disbursements for a total of about US$3.8 million have taken place mainly in 2009. This
accounts for less than 10% of total international assistance on HPAI in Indonesia over the period
2005-09.

              Annual delivery in Indonesia by project (2005- May 2009) – FAO (US$)
 Funded by                      2005          2006             2007          2008         May 2009      Grand Total
 OSRO/RAS/505/USA                31,054        803,455                                                       834,509
 GCP/INS/077/AUL                               488,372      1,167,652           5,079                      1,661,103
 OSRO/INS/701/AUL                                             723,867       2,349,203      1,655,841       4,728,911
 OSRO/INS/604/USA                            1,028,067      6,784,231       9,258,510      4,191,282      21,262,090
 OSRO/RAS/602/JPN                              616,000      1,193,608          37,400                      1,847,008
 OSRO/INS/703/USA                                                             449,718          86,807        536,525
 OSRO/INS/501/NET                               17,000        105,867          30,000                        152,867
 Grand Total                     31,054      2,952,894      9,975,225      12,129,910      5,933,930      31,023,013




11
     However, caution is required as the recording system differs from other countries. In Indonesia, since the
     introduction of PDSR programme in 2006 (with revisions in 2008), data are collated at farm or sub–village level.

                                                          35
7. Economic and financial analysis of the Avian Influenza Surveillance and Control Project
(AHIF and PHRD grants managed by the World Bank)

7.1     Control and eradication of HPAI are complicated tasks that can only be achieved using a
combination of measures. No single measure is likely to be appropriate and effective. The
composition of measures must be chosen and adapted according to the conditions in the country
and its disease status, and must therefore be phased and based on a careful monitoring of their
actual impact.

7.2   It is not possible to carry out a formal quantified economic analysis of the project in a
meaningful way, for the following main reasons:
         The AHIF/PHRD project managed by the World Bank is quite a small project (US$15
          million total allocation, of which only about US$3.8 million has actually been disbursed)
          especially in relation to the size of the country, and it tackles only a very limited part of
          the full set of complementary activities that are required for effective AHI surveillance
          and control.
         Other complementary activities funded by different donors are outside of this project and
          cannot be costed in detail in the context of this ICRR, although they are at least equally –
          and even more – important to enable the project benefits to materialize. For FAO alone,
          this amount to over US$31 million actually disbursed over the period 2005-09.
         The initial project duration was limited to two years. In actual fact, even after a six-month
          extension, the project was effectively implemented only for about a year due to very slow
          start-up. Only 25% of the original allocations were effectively disbursed.
         Many activities implemented under this project have been, in reality, at least partly (if not
          entirely) funded by other donors, mainly due to delays in making the funds managed by
          the WB available in the field.
         Some activities originally included in the project (e.g. compensation system for culling)
          have not been carried out at all, although they might be essential for an effective HPAI
          control and prevention strategy.12
         Partly due to its limited size, the WB project is essentially of a "pilot" nature. Its benefits
          could actually be reaped only through scaling-up and generalizing surveillance and
          control measures on a country-wide or at least island-wide scale. Therefore the economic
          analysis would require to take into account also the costs (hypothetical) of scaling-up,
          which are not yet really known at this stage.
         A bona fide system of monitoring and evaluation is still lacking, both for this project and,
          more generally, the whole National Program for Control of HPAI. As a result, there is
          only anecdotal evidence of the actual outcomes and impacts of most HPAI control
          measures implemented so far in the field, which would make quantification of benefits
          hazardous. One exception is the mass vaccination program carried out as part of the
          Operational Research implemented by ILRI under the project. However, results of this
          research remain very controversial.


12
     It is generally thought that a well-designed ―compensation framework‖ is an essential element to obtain real
     cooperation from affected stakeholders (farmers/ producers) and to ensure the efficacy of the surveillance and
     diagnosis mechanism.

                                                          36
      Another important factor is the limited time during which the Project has actually been
       implemented (less than a year). Some activities, such as the targeted vaccination program
       (InVac), really started only in the last few months of Project implementation. These
       activities are still ongoing and, even if a detailed monitoring system were in place, no data
       would be available yet to assess the actual outcomes and impacts.

7.3     As a result of these factors, even if an ERR could be calculated – which is always a
speculative endeavour for investments in control and prevention of AHI, as explained in the
above section 4 – in this particular case, due to the limited scope and pilot nature of the project, it
would have to relate to a full set of investments that are mostly beyond the project and largely
exceed it. Benefits would also have to be estimated mostly on an ex-ante (and not ex-post) basis,
due to the lack of actual data on outcomes and impacts of the investments made so far. In the end,
such analysis would not provide any meaningful information on the actual economic impact of
this particular project.

7.4     Nonetheless, the economic and financial/ fiscal benefits that can be specifically
attributed to the project can still be analyzed in a qualitative manner. As explained above in
section 4, a key concern is to ensure a minimum cost composition of HPAI prevention and
control measures. The main impacts and outcomes of the project and their corresponding
economic and financial implications are described below qualitatively.

7.5     Through its pilot nature and Operational Research component (component D), the project
aimed mainly to clarify the effectiveness and respective benefits of various HPAI control and
prevention strategies in the backyard poultry of Sector 4. A main thrust of the original project
design was to carry out a range of activities on a pilot scale – Participatory Animal Disease
Surveillance and Response (component A), mass village chicken vaccination (component B),
culling compensation system (component C) – and to monitor and evaluate their impact through
―Operational Research‖ (Component D) carried out by ILRI.

7.6    The project thus clearly aimed to assess the relative cost-efficiency of alternative
measures, and hence to improve cost effectiveness of HPAI control and prevention in Indonesia
through identification of the most appropriate measures. In this way, the national HPAI control
and prevention program would be guided by relevant and timely locally produced evidence and
rigorous analytical work.

7.7    The results of Operational Research have been somewhat disappointing, mainly because
only one set of measures (i.e. mass vaccination of backyard village chicken) was actually
assessed. This shortcoming resulted in part from the fact that other components of the project
were not all implemented as planned.

7.8     The principal finding of the Operational Research is that it is logistically feasible to
mount a mass vaccination campaign against HPAI in backyard poultry. The study also concludes
that such mass vaccination would actually reduce HPAI outbreaks in backyard poultry – a
conclusion that has raised controversy from other partners such as FAO, who have criticized the
study design and its scientific validity. Regardless of this controversy, however, the Operational
Research study conducted by ILRI also concludes that, while mass vaccination in Sector 4 is
technically and logistically feasible, it is not feasible from an institutional or economic
perspective. Such mass vaccination in the backyard poultry of Sector 4 entails substantial
recurrent costs that are not sustainable.
                                                  37
7.9    Even before the Operational Research was actually conducted, the national HPAI
program started to move towards a targeted vaccination program (InVac) focused on small scale
commercial poultry production situated at the limit between Sector 3 and Sector 4.

7.10 The Operational Research carried out under the project did not provide the breadth of
analysis (i.e. different control measures) initially expected and, at best, contributed only
indirectly to the evolving HPAI vaccination strategy in Indonesia. Nonetheless, it has contributed
to fuel the debate about the need for appropriate analysis of alternative control strategies which
should be based on field experience and local evidence.

7.11   Other direct benefits from the project include its contributions to:
      improving access to information for small poultry farmers through the Information,
       Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns conducted under component F; and
      strengthening the capacity of relevant government agencies involved in the project, in
       particular the field veterinary services which have been strengthened through the training
       received under the project and the introduction of the Participatory Animal Disease
       Surveillance and Response (PDSR) approach.

7.12 Jointly with other projects for the control and prevention of HPAI in Indonesia, the
project has contributed to lay the foundations for an effective surveillance system that could be
applied as well to other rapidly spreading infectious diseases. While the project dealt only with
HPAI, the scope of the animal health surveillance system supported by the project (and other
projects/ donors) could easily be enlarged to other zoonoses and epizooties of economic
importance. This would also lead to higher potential benefits, as well as enhanced commitment
from GOI and beneficiaries and hence improved prospects for sustainability.

7.13 Other positive outcomes of this and other projects for HPAI control in Indonesia, which
are not related solely to the main focus on HPAI but can be of broader use and benefit, include:
(i) the development of a network of village vaccinators whose services are paid by the
beneficiaries; (ii) the establishment of the cold chain and logistics system for handling of
vaccines; and, specifically related to the Bank supported AI project, (iii) the testing of modalities
to transfer funds from the central government to local governments to carry out animal disease
surveillance and other activities that need to be sustained after external funding will cease.




                                                 38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
               Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Louise Scura                    Lead Natural Resources Mgmt Specialist   EASIS   TTL

Supervision/ICR
                                                                                 Previous TTL/Rural
Louise Scura                    Lead Natural Resources Mgmt Specialist   EASIS
                                                                                 Development
                                                                                 TTL/Rural
Shobha Shetty                   Sr. Economist                            EASER
                                                                                 Development
Bisma Husen                     Senior Procurement Specialist            EAPPR   Procurement
Laurent Msellati                Operations Adviser                       EAPCO   Animal health
Erman A. Rahman                 Operations Officer                       EASIS   Project Management
Claudia Rokx                    Lead Health Specialist                   EASHH   Human health
Isono Sadoko                    Consultant                               EASIS   Social safeguards
Unggul Suprayitno               Sr Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM   Financial Management

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending
  FY07                                                8                            59.04
  FY08                                                                              0.00
                                Total:                8                            59.04
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                              0.03
  FY08                                                6                            36.83
  FY09                                               12                            73.66
                                Total:               18                           110.52




                                                    39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N.A.




                                               40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N.A.




                                            41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(a) Borrower’s Completion Report

The GOI was advised of its responsibility to prepare a Borrower Completion Report by both the Bank
supervision team and the ICR team, but did not provide the Bank with its own completion report.

(b) Borrower Comments on the Bank ICR

Note: The Coordinating Ministry of People’s Welfare and the Ministry of Agriculture (DGLS)
provided comments on an earlier draft of the Bank’s ICR (received August 2010) in which a key point
was made that the Government performance rating of Highly Unsatisfactory was not warranted. The
Bank team subsequently discussed the ratings and decided to upgrade the rating slightly to
Unsatisfactory. The comments by the government on the draft ICR are presented below.

Comments from DGLS, Ministry of Agriculture:




                                                42
43
Comments from Menko Kesra:




                             44
45
46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

      N/A




                                            47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    DGLS (2007) Participatory Disease Surveillance and Response, A Review, January 2006 – May
       2007
2.    DGLS (2008) Annual Report of Implementation Activity 2008
3.    DGLS (2008) National Strategic Work Plan for the Progressive Control of Highly Pathogenic
      Avian Influenza in Animals, Proposal for Phase II for Implementation 2009 to 2011
4.    DGLS (2009) Progress Report, Indonesia Avian Influenza Surveillance and Control Project,
      Quarterly I, January – April 2009
5.    DGLS (2010) A letter to ILRI on the Operational Research, 22 March 2010, Ref.
       22063/PD.620/F/03/2010
6.    DGLS and FAO (2008) Agreement between DGLS and FAO Concerning the Carrying out of
      Consultant‘s Services Financed by the World Bank
7.    EU (2009) Mid-Term Review of the Contribution of the European Commission to the Avian and
      Human Influenza Facility in East and Southeast Asia, Final Report
8.    EU (2010) Outcome and Impact Assessment of the Global Response to the Avian Influenza
      Crisis
9.    FAO (2008) Annual Report, Avian Influenza Control Programme in Indonesia
10.   FAO (2010) FAO Regional Strategy for Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza and other Emerging
      Infectious Diseases of Animals in Asia and the Pacific
11.   FAO (2010) Third Report (October 2008 – December 2009) Global Programme for the
      Prevention and Control of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
12.   FAO (2010) AIDE NEWS Number 65 for April 2010
13.   FAO/World Bank (2006) Rapid Assessment of the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
      Compensation Scheme in Indonesia
14.   Kesra (2010) Final Report on Indonesia Avian Influenza Surveillance and Control Project, World
      Bank Grant
15.   Komnas FBPI (2010) Building A Plane While Flying It. 2006 – 2010
16.   Komnas FBPI (2010) Avian Influenza Surveillance and Pandemic Influenza Preparedness
      Information and Education and Communication Training
17.   Ministry of Agriculture (2005) National Strategic Work Plan for the Progressive Control of
      Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Animals, Avian Influenza Control Campaign 2006 – 2008,
      Indicative Outline
18.   OIE and FAO (2008) The Global Strategy for Prevention and Control of H5N1 Highly
      Pathogenic Avian Influenza
19.   Republic of Indonesia (2005) National Strategic Plan for Avian Influenza Control and Pandemic
      Influenza Preparedness 2006 – 2008
20.   United Nations and World Bank (2010) Animal and Pandemic Influenza: A Framework for
      Sustaining Momentum (Draft) International Ministerial Conference on Animal and Pandemic
      Influenza, 20 – 21 April 2010, Hanoi, Vietnam

                                                 48
21.   World Bank (2006) Aide Memoire 27 March – 7 April 2006
22.   World Bank (2007) Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA 39690 JPN 54219) to
      The Socialist Republic of Vietnam for The Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery Project
23.   World Bank (2007) Japan PHRD Co-financing Grant Agreement
24.   Avian and Human Influenza Facility Grant Agreement
25.   World Bank, Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) # 1-3 Archived
26.   World Bank, Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) Report, PHRD: Reporting period
      (07/01/2007 to 06/30/2008, and 07/01/2008 to 06/30/2009) and AHIF: Reporting period (
      06/13/2007 to 12/31/2009
27.   World Bank/FAO/IFPRI/OIE (2006) Enhancing Control of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in
      Developing Countries through Compensation, Issues and Good Practice




                                                49
                    95°                            100°                         105°                            110°                         115°                       120°                        125°          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
              15°                                                                                                                                                                                                 or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                          MYANMAR
                                                                                                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                         Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135°                    140°


               Banda Aceh
                                                                                           L          A        Y
              5°                                                               A                                          S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5°
                            1
                                              Medan                     M                       Natuna
                                                                                                                               I                                                    Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.

                           Pematangsiantar
                                                                                                 Besar
                                                                                                                                                              Tarakan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea                                                      PACI F I C                 OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24




                                                                                                                                   A
               Simeulue
                                                                                                 19                                                                                                                             Morotai
                                                2                                                                                                                                           Manado
                                                                               SINGAPORE                                                            23
                                Nias                                              Tanjungpinang                                                                                                             Ternate           Halmahera
                                                               Pekanbaru                                                                                                             25
              0°                                                   3                              Pontianak                           AN TAN
                                                                                                                              K AL IM ANTAN                                26              Gorontalo                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                      Lingga                          20                                  Samarinda                                                                                     Manokwari
                                       Me




                                              Padang                                                                                                                                                            30                                                             Biak
                                                                                                                                                         Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                          Palu                                                                     Sorong
                                                          4             5                                                                                                                      Peleng                      Obi
                                         nt




                                              Siberut                         Jambi        Bangka                                   21
                                         aw




                                                                                               Pangkalpinang                                                       SULAWESI                                                                 Misool     32              Yapen                   Jayapura
                                                              SUMATERA                                                    Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                                                         Mamuju
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sula Is.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ceram
                                              ai




                                                                                                 9                                              22
                                                                   6               Palembang              Belitung
                                                                                                                                                                 27                                                                Amahai Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                  Is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buru
                                                                                   7                                          Bandjarmasin                                        29      Kendari                                                                              33     PAPUA
                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW GUINEA
                                                         Bengkulu                                                                                             Parepare                                                 Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika        Puncak Jaya
                                                                                      8                                                                                                      Muna                                                                                     (5030 m)
              5°                                                             Bandar                                  Java Sea                             Makassar                                                                                     Kai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA
                                                        Enggano
                                                                            Lampung
                                                                                        11                                                                                                 Baubau                        Banda 31                      Is.
                                                                                          JAKARTA
                   0       200         400 Kilometers                            Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                                   Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Is.
                                                                                           12Bandung Semarang                      Madura
                                                                                      10                       13                                                                                               Wetar
                                                                                                                                   Surabaya                                                                                        Babar             Tanimbar
                   0      100      200      300        400 Miles                           JAWA          Yogyakarta
                                                                                                                                               16          Sumbawa                                  Alor                  Moa                        Is.
                                                                                                                                   15          Bali Lombok       Raba            Flores
                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                  Merauke
                    95°                            100°                         105°                                                 Denpasar       Mataram                         Ende                                                                    Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                   TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                         17
               PROVINCES:                                                                                                                10°                     Waingapu Sumba                      Timor                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kupang
               1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                    12      JAWA BARAT                         23   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
               2   SUMATERA UTARA                              13      JAWA TENGAH                        24   SULAWESI UTARA
               3   RIAU                                        14      D.I. YOGYAKARTA                    25   GORONTALO
               4
               5
                   SUMATERA BARAT
                   JAMBI
                                                               15
                                                               16
                                                                       JAWA TIMUR
                                                                       BALI
                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                               SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                               SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
               6   BENGKULU                                    17      NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                28   SULAWESI SELATAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33420R2
               7   SUMATERA SELATAN                            18      NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                29   SULAWESI TENGGARA
AUGUST 2008




               8   LAMPUNG                                     19      RIAU KEPULAUAN                     30   MALUKU UTARA              15°                                                                                                                                                              15°
               9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                             20      KALIMANTAN BARAT                   31   MALUKU
              10   BANTEN                                      21      KALIMANTAN TENGAH                  32   PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA
              11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                              22      KALIMANTAN SELATAN                 33   PAPUA                         115°                       120°                        125°                              130°                            135°                    140°
