                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 27426

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (CPL-39780 SCL-3978A SCPD-3978S TF-29183)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$373 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                          FOR A


               SECOND POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT




                                      March 31, 2004




Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Infrastructure Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective at ICR - December 2003)

                                         Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                                               Rp 1000 = US$ 0.120
                                                 US$ 1 = Rp 8350
                       (Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal - January 1996)
                                              Rp 1000 = US$0.445
                                                 US$1 = Rp 2246
                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                          January 1   December 31

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    - Asian Development Bank                      L/C    - Letter of Credit
CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy                 LV     - Low Voltage
CIS    - Customer Information System                 MBMS   - Multi-Buyer - Multi-Seller
DGEED  - Directorate-General of Electricity and      MFO    - Medium Fuel Oil
         Energy Development                          MMSCF - Million Standard Cubic Feet
DGEEU  - Directorate-General of Electricity and      MV     - Medium Voltage
         Energy Utilization                          MME    - Ministry of Mines and Energy
DO     - Development Objective                       MTR    - Mid-term review
DSM    - Demand Side Management                      MVA    - Megavolt-ampere
ECA    - Export Credit Agency                        MW     - Megawatt
EDP    - Efficiency Drive Program                    NCB    - National Competitive Bidding
EIRR   - Economic Internal Rate of Return            NBF    - Not Bank-financed
EMSA   - Electricity Market Supervisory Agency       NPV    - Net Present Value
ERP    - Enterprise Resource Planning                O&M    - Operation & Maintenance
FIS    - Financial Information System                PAH    - Project Affected Households
GIL    - Gas Insulated Line                          PJB    - Subsidiary Generating Company of PLN
GIS    - Geographic Information System                        (Surabaya)
GOI    - Government of Indonesia                     PLN    - Perusahaan Listrik Negara (the State
GPS   - Global Positioning System                             Electricity Corporation)
GWh    - Gigawatt Hour                               PKK    - Paiton-Kediri-Klaten
HSD    - High-sulfur diesel                          PSR    - Project Summary Report
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding           PSRP   - Power Sector Restructuring Policy
ICPI   - International Consumer Price Index          PTDII  - Second Power Transmission and
ICR    - Implementation Completion Report                     Distribution Project
IDC    - Interest during construction                P3B    - PLN's Java-Bali Transmission System
IDO    - Industrial Diesel Oil                                Business Unit
IP     - Implementation Progress                     RAP    - Resettlement Action Plan
IBP    - Industry Best Practice                      ROR    - Rate of Return
IPP    - Independent Power Producer                  ROW    - Right of Way
IT     - Information Technology                      TA     - Technical Assistance
JABETU - Java-Bali Electricity Transmission Unit     SAIDI  - System Average Interruption Duration
JBIC   - Japan Bank for International Cooperation             Index
JEDU   - Jakarta Electricity Distribution Unit       SAIFI  - System Average Interruption Frequency
KEIII  - Export Credit loan package III                       Index
kV     - kilovolt                                    SBM    - Single Buyer Market
                                                     SBU    - Strategic Business Unit



                                       Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                                   Country Director:      Andrew D. Steer
                                     Sector Manager:      Junhui Wu
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Noureddine Berrah

                                            INDONESIA
              SECOND POWER TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
   6. Sustainability                                                                14
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              18
   10. Additional Information                                                       21
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

MAP: IBRD No. 32880

Project ID: P004021                                                  Project Name: Second Power Transmission and
                                                                     Distribution Project
Team Leader: Noureddine Berrah                                       TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Power Transmission and Distribution               L/C/TF Number: CPL-39780; SCL-3978A;
                            Project                                                                  SCPD-3978S; TF-29183
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Decentralization (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/19/1995                                     Effective: 06/27/1996
     Appraisal: 05/19/1995                                         MTR:                             04/30/1999
      Approval: 02/20/1996                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/Perusahaan Listrik Negara
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Junhui Wu                                      Peter Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:             Noureddine Berrah                              Judith Magyari
ICR Primary Author:             Kurt Schenk; Mohammad
                                Farhandi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the Project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report dated January 22, 1996 was to improve
customer service by: (a) increasing the physical capacity, efficiency and reliability of the Java-Bali
transmission system and distribution network; and (b) promoting sector efficiency, competition and private
sector participation by implementing functional decentralization (unbundling) of Perusahaan Listrik Negara
(PLN) operations in Java-Bali and developing effective regulatory oversight and institutions.

The objectives were consistent with Government of Indonesia's (GOI's) long-term vision for the power
sector at the time. This vision was derived mainly from GOI's Policy Statement of March 1993. This
statement called for reform of the regulatory framework to promote private sector participation and
improve PLN's performance through decentralization, commercialization and corporatization. From the
Bank's perspective, the primary focus was to help steer the power sector away from the monopoly of a
single power utility to a competitive, decentralized, multi-operator environment. GOI's shorter-term plan
for the sector included decentralization and unbundling; corporatization of PLN; and reform of the
regulatory framework. The Project was also in line with PLN's own Restructuring Plan. This plan
included the first stage of restructuring for the Java-Bali system, focused on decentralization through
increased autonomy to the four regional distribution units.

The objectives had links to the Bank's prevailing Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Report No. 13988
-IND, 1995. This strategy and related operations aimed at assisting the country meet its critical demand
for electricity in an efficient and environmentally sustainable way. The CAS supported investment in
transmission and distribution, since generation could be readily financed by the private sector at that time.
Investment in transmission to reduce bottlenecks was a key element in the strategy to promote Indonesia's
productivity. The CAS also supported the Government's decentralization efforts.

At appraisal, PLN was connecting over 2 million new consumers a year and had an average annual
electricity growth rate of 16%. The Project's design reflected the Bank's prevailing optimism about the
possibilities for sector reform and the way in which policy issues were being handled. Furthermore, several
independent power producers (IPPs) were investing in Indonesia, although many aspects of these
transactions were not transparent. In July 1997, the East Asia financial crisis arose, resulting in the rapid
deterioration of GOI and PLN finances; the Project was implemented under very different circumstances
from those under which it was prepared [see Note 1 in Section 10, Additional Information].

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's main objectives of improving the efficiency of the sector through competition and private
sector participation and increasing the system's capacity to improve reliability and quality of supply
remained valid throughout the project's implementation period. However, given the effect of the East Asia
crisis affecting the project (Section 5.1), and design deficiencies (Section 3.5), there should at least have
been some fine-tuning of the expectations for meeting the objectives. An appropriate time to do this was at
the mid-term project review. During this review, the Bank and the Borrower had the opportunity to
establish realistic project implementation indicators.

3.3 Original Components:

The original scope of the Project consisted of:



                                                     - 2 -

I. PLN Component (all costs include contingencies)

A.      Investment Component

    500-kV Transmission Component: US$389.8 million of which US$200.5 million IBRD.

    (a)     Construction of about 415 kilometers of 500 kilovolt (kV) double circuit overhead power
            transmission lines between Paiton and Kediri and between Kediri and Klaten.
    (b)     Extension of three existing 500-kV substations at (i) Paiton, (ii) Kediri and (iii) Klaten.

    150-kV Transmission Component: US$43.0 million of which US$33.2 million IBRD.

    (a)     Construction of about 60 kilometers of 150-kV double circuit overhead transmission lines in
            Jakarta and West Java.
    (b)     Construction of three new substations in Jakarta and West Java, including about 240
            megavolt-ampere (MVA) transformer capacity.
    (c)     Extension of four existing 150-kV substations in Central Java, including about 120MVA
            transformer capacity.

    Distribution Component: US$127.7 million of which US$100.5 million IBRD.

    Implementation of PLN's distribution investment program for Java-Bali to support the projected
    increase in sales and connect about 420,000 new consumers in 1997, including US$27.2 million in
    erection costs.

    Compensation and Resettlement: US$44.1 million.

B.      Technical Assistance Component

    Project Engineering: US$12.9 million of which US$8.2 million IBRD.

    (a)     Design, engineering and construction supervision services for the 500-kV and 150-kV
            transmission components.
    (b)     Design and engineering of the distribution components.

    Efficiency Improvement and Training: US$7.3 million of which US$6.7 million IBRD.

    (a)     Upgrading of PLN's Geographic Information System (GIS) to enhance its transmission and
            distribution investment planning capability (US$0.6 million).
    (b)     Upgrading of PLN's power-plant simulator at Suralaya Thermal Power Plant (US$6.0 million
            including US$4.2 million for simulator equipment).

    PLN Restructuring: US$21.8 million of which US$21.8 million IBRD.

    (a)     Establishment and strengthening of the Java-Bali Electricity Transmission Unit.
    (b)     Establishment and strengthening of the Jakarta Electricity Distribution Unit, including
            implementation of a Distribution Management Program.
    (c)     Preparation for the restructuring of PLN's remaining distribution operations in Java into West
            Java, Central Java and East Java Distribution Units.




                                                   - 3 -

II. Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) Component: US$2.0 million of which US$2.0 million
    IBRD.

Resources provided under the loan supported both the policy components as well as the physical and
institutional components.

The Master Plan for establishing an efficient and least cost transmission system for Java-Bali up to
2003/2004 was completed in 1994 with financing from Loan 3349-IND. It included, for construction in
1998 and 1999, the 500-kV and 150-kV transmission lines and substations to be financed under the
Project. The distribution component of the Project, which was to finance about one-sixth of the distribution
investment program in Java-Bali for 1997, was essential to meet demand.

The technical assistance (TA) under the Project was provided mainly to support GOI's long-term vision for
the power sector and the first stages of PLN's restructuring plan, as described in Section 4.1. The major
focus of the Project in support of PLN's restructuring efforts was for the: (a) establishment of an
autonomous Jakarta Electricity Distribution Unit (JEDU); (b) creation of the independent transmission unit
Java-Bali Electricity Transmission Unit (JABETU); and (c) formulation and implementation of regulations
that would govern the power sector.

3.4 Revised Components:

The component providing TA for PLN's restructuring was augmented to accommodate the urgent need to
restructure the sector and mitigate the impact of the crisis. Two of the three original TA activities were to
support converting JEDU and JABETU to fully functioning business units.             The third was to help
formulate and implement regulations to govern the power sector. A further task was introduced to support
corporate and financial restructuring of PLN. Combined with other TA activities financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), they helped pave the way for passing the new electricity law, establishing the
regulatory body, and the functional and geographical restructuring of PLN.

Some investment components were slightly revised during implementation to fund a Java Distribution
Information Technology Project. Originally, a Java Distribution Project was supposed to finance this
activity but it never materialized because new lending to Indonesia was placed on hold. The aim of the
revision was to fund the procurement of information technology (IT) infrastructure that could support a
prototype Customer Information System/Financial Information System (CIS/FIS) for JEDU. This would
have allowed PLN's IT program, as conceived in the design of the Java Distribution Project, to accelerate;
in turn, the Java Distribution Project would have provided financing to extend the prototype to the other
three distribution units.

In addition, several other components were revised during project implementation: (a) the Bank loan did not
continue to finance the 150-kV component due to serious delays in its implementation at the time of the
MTR in April 1999, and subsequent loan cancellations (Section 5.4), and PLN took over financing of this
component; (b) a second-round distribution component of about US$30 million was added in late-1998
from savings achieved in the first round of procurement; and (c) seven additional distribution lots were
procured for JEDU.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no quality-at-entry assessment at the time of the project's appraisal. Although the project's
objectives addressed the main issues in the power sector, with hindsight, the ICR has rated the quality at



                                                    - 4 -

entry as unsatisfactory for three reasons: (a) the objectives were complex and numerous, and expected to
be achieved in a remarkably short­and optimistic­timeframe;            (b) although some of the risks were
identified, as the result of lessons learned in previous projects, their impacts were stated to be minimal on
the grounds that sufficient corrective measures were included in the project design. The measures were
neither effective nor sufficient; and (c) the design did not seem to provide adequate time or resources for
preparatory work. A brief discussion follows.

First the objectives were complex, numerous and inconsistent, and the implementation period was
unrealistically short. For example: (a) on inconsistency, a key objective was to "formulate and implement"
a new regulatory framework to govern a competitive power market. However, at appraisal, the prevailing
electricity law, No. 15/1985, was intended for a vertically integrated monopoly (PLN) with the right and
obligation to supply electricity to the entire country. Although the law was later augmented by several
regulations aimed at authorizing private sector participation and allowing other legal entities to generate,
transmit and distribute power for public use, a comprehensive market-based law did not exist until
November 2002. Absent such a law, it is unclear how the project, as designed, could have led to the
development and implementation of an effective regulatory framework for a competitive market, since
regulations are normally derived from laws; and (b) on implementation timeframe, it was unrealistic to
assume that: (i) regulations could have been prepared by June 30, 1996 and finalized and enforced by
September 30, 1996, (ii) the Government, in addition to formulating and implementing regulations, could
have also prepared draft rules and procedures to govern private sector participation in the power sector by
June 30, 1996, and finalized and enforced them by September 30, 1996, and (iii) eighteen months after
effectiveness, the largest of the four distribution units (JEDU) and the transmission operation unit
(JABETU) could be converted into fully operational business units.

Second, with regard to project risks, two areas were identified in the SAR, which were based on two
lessons learned: (a) the cancellation of substantial amounts of previous loans. The SAR reasoned that the
original, high cost estimates in past operations were due to reliance on PLN's outdated data. However, this
project, in hindsight, has suffered from the same problem. The Project cost was estimated at US$650
million (excluding taxes and interest during construction), but the actual cost was US$292 million; (b) the
lower-than-expected outcomes of previous TA were due to the Borrower's limited absorption capacity.
However, the allocation of a substantial amount for TA (US$40 million) in the project seemed to ignore
this lesson. At closing date, only US$20 million were used, including US$5 million for the additional
corporate and financial restructuring activity which was not part of the original design.

Third, the Bank and the Borrower substantially underestimated the potential right of way and land
acquisition problems in designing the resettlement component, resulting in significant project
implementation delays.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Despite a regional economic crisis­tantamount to force majeure­(see Section 10) and project design
deficiencies, the overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project's sector restructuring and
institutional development achievements, though substantially delayed, actually went beyond the scope
originally envisaged at project appraisal. The Government passed a market-based Electricity Law and it
will soon establish a regulatory agency. PLN changed from a vertically-integrated, Government-owned
monopoly to a holding company with two subsidiary generation companies, a transmission company and
five distribution companies, designed to operate in a competitive framework.               Furthermore, PLN



                                                     - 5 -

renegotiated contracts with 26 independent power producers providing a more transparent framework for
private sector intervention. The project also achieved most of its physical objectives, improving the
reliability of the power system. (See Annex 1.) The construction of the new 500-kV transmission line has
led to improved power dispatch and lower production costs. It also has improved security and voltage
levels that prior to the project had fallen below acceptable limits. Furthermore the extension of the
distribution network exceeded expectations, connecting about 42 percent more customers than originally
anticipated.

Before the crisis, PLN had a reasonably sound operation in the Java-Bali market, which represented over
75% of its electricity sales.

The crisis had a devastating impact on the finances of PLN, as the Rupiah devalued from about 2500 to the
dollar to 15,000 and the financial covenants and other indicators stipulated in the loan became invalid.
Some contracts financed by Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) had become contentious, due to their high cost.
And finally, government commitment to implementing the TA component was hampered because officials
were compelled to focus on urgent daily problems related to the crisis.

In mid-1998, the Bank downgraded the prospects for achieving the development objectives of the entire
portfolio of Indonesia's power projects from satisfactory to unsatisfactory. This "U" rating continued until
mid 2001, when PLN's financial restructuring was completed through major rescheduling and debt to
equity conversion (see below).

Between the downgrading of the portfolio and its upgrading in 2001, the Bank supervision missions
focused on securing the Government commitment to (a) restore PLN's financial health to a reasonable level
(including tariff increases), (b) implement PLN's corporate restructuring, and (c) pave the way for laws
that would promote a competitive electricity sector. These efforts were successful and led to achievement
of the institutional objectives noted above.

A. Objective: Improving customer service by promoting efficiency, competition and private sector
    participation, through implementing functional decentralization (unbundling) of PLN operations
    in Java-Bali and developing effective regulatory oversight and institutions.

Outcomes:

The achievement of this objective was satisfactory.

Restructuring Policy Despite the country's difficulties, in August 1998, the Government formally adopted
a comprehensive Power Sector Restructuring Policy (PSRP). The Bank and ADB provided a wide range
of TA and associated studies to help prepare the PSRP, including some of the TA under the Project's
original scope. The policy envisaged a world-class power sector able to provide high quality, reliable
service with increasing levels of efficiency. Six areas targeted for reform were: (a) restructuring and
unbundling the industry; (b) introducing competition; (c) setting tariffs to recover costs and remove/limit
subsidies; (d) rationalizing and subsequently expanding private sector participation; (e) redefining the
Government's role; and (f) revising and strengthening laws and regulations.

Donor Coordination in Policy Implementation. Subsequent to a formal statement of the Policy, a
workshop was held in December 1998 to support implementation. At that time, the Bank and ADB agreed
to focus on complementary areas of restructuring activities. ADB provided support for sectoral aspects of
the reform, such as preparing the draft electricity law and implementing regulations, including market rules,


                                                      - 6 -

tariffs and grid codes, and creating a single-buyer-model (SBM) and multi-buyer, multi-seller model
(MBMS).       While the Bank worked closely with ADB to provide feedback on the sectoral
aspects--particularly the draft laws and regulations--it focused on PLN's financial and corporate
restructuring. Through the Corporate and Financial Restructuring TA, the Bank helped PLN design its
restructuring implementation plan and implement it.       Once the implementation of the Corporate and
Financial Restructuring TA began in 2001, the project development objective (DO) rating was upgraded to
satisfactory.

Financial Restructuring and Tariff Levels. PLN's financial restructuring was completed in 2001. The
Government converted the unpaid balance of Rp5.2 trillion debt to a new long-term (20-year) loan, and the
overdue interest of Rp29 trillion, to equity. The Government injected Rp6.7 trillion as targeted cash
subsidies by the end of 2001. Furthermore, there was a major asset revaluation in 2002 that resulted in an
increase of Rp110 trillion which has substantially improved the debt-to-equity ratio of PLN. At the same
time, the Government kept its commitment and increased tariffs from about US$0.03 per kWh to the
current level of US$0.071 per kWh, through 10 consecutive quarterly increases.

Legal and Regulatory Framework. In November 2002, a comprehensive, market-based electricity law
was passed which: (a) abolished PLN's monopoly over distribution, permitting producers to sell directly to
consumers, (b) decided the establishment, within one year from the enactment of the law, of a new
regulatory agency­the Electricity Market Supervisory Agency (EMSA)­that reports to the President
(though note that EMSA has not yet been established although the one year is now up) and (c) decided the
introduction of competition in generation within five years, with competition extended to the retail level
when EMSA deems that circumstances permit.

Contractual Relationships with Independent Power Producers (IPPs). PLN concluded its negotiations
with all 26 IPPs, which, due to non-payment resulting from the crisis had created contentious and (in a few
cases) litigious issues for the country and PLN.        Agreements have been reached on a rescheduled
repayment at lower tariff levels with all operating IPPs.

PLN's Actual and Planned Corporate Development. PLN's corporate restructuring is in an advanced
stage, consisting of PLN Pusat (its holding company), two wholly­owned subsidiaries that are generation
companies (PT Indonesia and PJB), one strategic business unit (SBU) that is a transmission company
(P3B) and five SBUs that are distribution companies. Retail operations are run through retail business
units. To prepare for future multi-generation companies, PLN has (a) placed new plants under a third
generation subsidiary; b) divided the transmission company (P3B) into two units: one owns, operates and
maintains the transmission assets, while the other deals with system operations, including dispatch and
scheduling; and (c) created an IPP trading company, as well as a proxy for a single-buyer market for
administering the contracts with the two generation subsidiaries and for billing the five distribution units.

To move forward to full corporatization of its generation, transmission and distribution operations, PLN
has arranged for: (a) binding contracts between the two subsidiaries and the single buyer unit; (b)
transmission service agreements between the transmission company and the SB unit; and (c) a bulk power
supply agreement between the SB unit and distribution companies. However, licenses for generation,
transmission, distribution and the SB companies/units have not yet been issued because a regulation for
licenses needs to be issued first and EMSA is not yet in place.

In the meantime, PLN continues to implement its Efficiency Drive Program (EDP). In 2000, after the
Government conducted an initial audit of PLN's operational performance, PLN initiated the EDP with
emphasis on improving cost savings in capital, human resources and operating expenditures. PLN is


                                                     - 7 -

committed to securing more efficiency from various parts of its operations, and it is also introducing
demand-side management (DSM) programs.

B. Objective: Improving customer service by increasing the physical capacity, efficiency and
    reliability of the Java-Bali power transmission system and distribution network.

Outcomes:

This objective was satisfactorily achieved.

The commissioning of the 500-kV Paiton-Kediri-Klaten (PKK) transmission line and associated
substations, although late, has allowed increased east-west power transfers and more economic dispatch of
the Paiton IPP, consequently decreasing production costs. It has also contributed to improving security and
voltage levels in southeast Java, which, in many areas, had fallen below acceptable levels. Notwithstanding
serious delays in the implementation of a small 150-kV component by the time of the MTR in April 1999,
PLN financed and finalized this component in its entire scope on its own. This additional line has partly
relieved bottlenecks in Jakarta, and West and Central Java. The improvement to the distribution facilities
has exceeded the original objective of connecting 420,000 consumers by the project, by connecting over
600,000 new consumers.

The project also included installing a generator simulator at Suralaya, as well as a geographic information
system (GIS). The former helped train staff to operate the three 600-MW units at Suralaya, which
improved their abilities and caused Suralaya to be operated more efficiently. The GIS was intended to help
PLN improve the effectiveness of system planning, reduce operating costs and provide better customer
services and management information for all its business units. However, the system's full capacities have
not yet been realized, since its intended use by a systems planning group has only been partly adopted.

The project also provided for a JEDU CIS/FIS prototype development at the DKI distribution unit head
office, which was to then expand to other distribution units. However, the FIS was cancelled in May 1999
due to the impending changes in PLN's organizational structure, and the prototype has only remained at
DKI. The benefits of using the CIS include reducing the loss of revenue, improving the security of the
data, and reducing billing deviations.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The appraisal of the project took place before the logframe matrix approach to analyzing outputs by
components.     Nevertheless, the ICR has reviewed and rated each component as satisfactory or
unsatisfactory, where relevant.

I. PLN Component

A.      Investment Components

500-kV Transmission component (US$389.8 million, of which US$200.5 million IBRD).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

This component was one of the key outputs for the Project. It consisted of the construction of the 500-kV
Paiton-Kediri-Klaten (PKK) transmission line and associated 500-kV substations at Paiton, Kediri and



                                                     - 8 -

Klaten.    It suffered a series of delays with final completion of the transmission line and associated
substations occurring only in November 14, 2003, about five years late. However, the Bank-financed part
of the component was completed in 2000.

There were three principal reasons for the delay.             First there was a breakdown in co-financing
arrangements for the substations. The original financing for Paiton GIL and Kediri substations were
arranged through Export Credit (Lot 3 of KE-III). The Klaten Substation was separately financed by the
Bank (Kediri side) and Export Credit (Ungaran side). However, in late 2000, GOI mandated a review of
all KE-III financed projects after uncovering unreasonable high prices for the Kediri substation, compared
to those received for the Depok III substation, which was of similar size and scope. In addition, GOI/PLN
could not meet their foreign and local financing obligations due to the economic crisis. Second, there were
land acquisition and right-of-way problems because the people affected by the construction of two tower
sections (T268-272 and T272-283 totaling about 6 km) demanded exceptionally high prices for their land.
Third, there was difficulty in opening letters of credit. The latter two issues caused a delay of about 24
months for the 500-kV transmission line, which was essentially completed by October 2000. The short
section of line was affected by the right- of- way problem. The substations were not completed because of
difficulties with the letters of credit. As a result, the line could not be energized. The delay caused some
theft of material, which was only averted when PLN energized completed sections at lower voltages, i.e.
20kV, 70kV or 150kV depending of the location.

To forestall further problems, PLN decided in mid-2001, with Bank approval, to construct a temporary
bypass at the Kediri substation and modify the Paiton GIL substation at a cost of about US$2.4 million.
This allowed one circuit of the 500-kV line to be energized on April 4, 2002, and an increased transfer of
about 600MW over the line (for a total of almost 1,200MW), with corresponding increase in the loading of
the Paiton IPPs, whose dispatch had been curtailed. The increased loading at Paiton was immediately
reflected in a decrease of PLN production costs at the Paiton complex.

The constraints on dispatching the existing and expanded Paiton and Grati complexes will disappear with
the commissioning of the 500-kV transmission line between Klaten and Depok, through Tasikmalaya,
currently targeted for first quarter of 2005. This would mark the completion of the southern section of the
long-planned 500-kV transmission loop connecting the east and west ends of Java via both the north and
south coasts. The southern 500-kV line will firm up the capacity for bulk power transfer between the two
ends of Java and will also support the heavily loaded parts of the 150-kV network supplying demand along
the south coast Furthermore, it will improve reliability and security of supply. The 500-kV PKK line and
associated substations are fully operational and are already providing the expected benefits.

150-kV transmission component (US$43 million, of which US$33.2 million IBRD).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

This component included 150-kV transmission lines and substations between Depok III, Tambun and
Poncol II in Jakarta and West Java and one transformer reinforcement in Central Java. However, the
implementation of this component suffered serious delays caused mainly by land acquisition/right-of-way
problems, which were not sufficiently assessed at appraisal. At the time of the mid-term review in April
1999, this component was already delayed by three years. This component included 150-kV transmission
lines and substations between Depok III, Tambun and Poncol II in Jakarta and West Java and one
transformer reinforcement in Central Java. However, the implementation of this component suffered
serious delays caused mainly by land acquisition/right-of-way problems, which were not sufficiently
assessed at appraisal. At the time of the MTR in April 1999, this component was already late by 3 years.


                                                       - 9 -

It was decided at the time that PLN would continue with the construction of this component with its own
financing to reduce the amount of the loan (at the request of the Borrower, a Memorandum of
Understanding on Portfolio Restructuring dated December 13, 1999 required that funds not required to
finance Project costs be cancelled ­ Section 5.4). Although not financed by the Bank, this component is
providing the benefits as assessed at appraisal. These are the reduction of localized transformer overloads,
and improved voltage levels in the adjoining MV network.

Distribution component (US$127.7 million, of which US$100.5 million IBRD).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

This component was successfully carried out in the four distribution units: Distribusi DKI Jakarta dan
Tangerang (Jakarta and Tangerang); Distribusi Jawa Barat (West Java); Distribusi Jawa Tengah (Central
Java); and Distribusi Jawa Timur (East Java). Initially there was a slowdown of new applications for
connections from large industrial/commercial customers particularly in the Jakotabek area due to the
economic/financial crisis in the region at the time of procurement for this component (1998). However, the
situation improved at the beginning of 2000, with the backlog of installations completed by the end of the
year. Savings of about US$30 million in the procurement of medium voltage (MV) and low voltage (LV)
distribution equipment and materials were used in a `second round procurement' initiated in late 1998.

The component connected additional consumers and extended or replaced the MV and LV networks over
and above those agreed at appraisal. The second round was completed by June 2001. In addition, due to
availability of an undisbursed balance, the Bank agreed to finance additional works at Jakarta and
Tangerang, within the 10% total contract amount. The additional works were completed by end of 2002.
One noteworthy contribution of this component was the decentralization of procurement processing to the
distribution units for undertaking the second round procurement. This was carried out successfully with
guidance from PLN Pusat. During the time the Bank intensified monitoring to make certain that delays
were minimized.     This component exceeded the scope set out at appraisal, as it included additional
equipment and materials, and connected about 600,000 new consumers compared with the 420,000
estimated at appraisal.

JEDU CIS/FIS Prototype (US$2.4 million of which US$2.4 million IBRD).

This component is rated as unsatisfactory.

The original intention was to develop a CIS/FIS prototype for JEDU at the DKI Distribution Unit Head
Office, two Branch Offices (Cabangs) at Gambir and Tangerang, and six sub-branch offices (Rayons).
However, in May 1999 FIS development was suspended until PLN's future organizational structure was
defined. In August 1999 the prototype CIS was modified to industry best practice (IBP) after a review
performed by the IBP-CIS Task Group. At present the CIS at JEDU (DKI) Head Office and at Gambir
Branch is operational after being upgraded to speed up its operation with a six function database. Limited
operation is also available at six other branch offices. Most of the computer hardware has been upgraded.
The implementation of the computing and network infrastructure in all of JEDU's Cabangs has benefited
from the standardization of the hardware which has reduced operating and maintenance costs, allowed
JEDU staff to develop and fully deploy an on-line payment system and allowed the consolidation of
previously-fragmented databases.




                                                    - 10 -

Compensation and Resettlement (US$44.1 million).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

There were 2,114 households were affected by the 500-kV transmission line, of which 75 families needed
to be relocated. All the relocated families were moved to the vicinity of their old houses where PLN
provided the project affected households with either cash compensation or a new house plot. The total
amount of land compensation and relocation that was paid by PLN amounted to US$11.1 million (due to
the decrease in the dollar amount as the compensation was paid in Rupiah). For the 150-kV transmission
lines, which were constructed from PLN's own resources, the number of PAH is understood to have been
minimal as the lines were only about 60 km in length, over existing ROWs. There were no PAH for the
distribution components.

The main problems encountered during implementation of the RAP for the 500-kV facilities were fourfold:
(a) demand by some affected people for higher compensation for houses and affected trees over those stated
in the RAP; (b) inadequate public information. PLN's efforts fell short of expectations, (c) delay in the
Project's implementation which caused many affected people to ask for an increase in the price that was
negotiated previously, and (d) weak internal supervision and monitoring of RAP implementation by PLN.
The Bank repeatedly urged PLN to complete all compensation assessments, negotiations and payment to
affected people at least two months prior to start of the civil works, but these recommendations went mostly
unheeded.

Due to the crisis, PLN had insufficient funds to pay the affected people once agreement was reached.
Payments were made in many cases weeks or even months late, which gave the opportunity for affected
people to change their minds about the agreed rates. PLN litigated against PAH who were demanding
exceptionally high prices and won a favorable outcome in all cases. On balance, therefore, the final
outcome of the implementation of the RAP was satisfactory, despite the many problems caused by
insufficient preparation and coordination, as well as insufficient initial socialization efforts.

B.       Technical Assistance Components

Project Engineering (US$12.9 million of which US$8.2 million IBRD).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

Project management for the 500-kV transmission lines and substations was carried by the Consulting
Engineers, despite very difficult conditions due to the economic crisis in the region during 1998-1999. It
was necessary to extend the contract twice from the initial contract completion date of February 1999,
firstly to end of August 1999, due to delays in the delivery of materials, and once again to February 2000.
Regular progress reports were provided on time and a completion report was submitted in February 2000,
which was finalized by PLN when all work was completed.

Efficiency Improvement and Training (US$7.3 million of which US$6.7 million IBRD).

This component is rated as satisfactory.

This technical assistance component of the Project consisted of (a) Upgrading of PLN's Geographic
Information System (GIS) to enhance its transmission and distribution investment planning capability, and
(b) Upgrading of PLN's power-plant simulator at Suralaya thermal power plant.



                                                     - 11 -

The output of the GIS component was not fully achieved. The main focus of the GIS as originally
conceived was to: (a) provide the required geographic and technical data for the whole of Indonesia,
together with a tool box of applications, including spatial analysis and system simulation and optimization
packages, (b) increase the effectiveness of system planning, and (c) reduce operational costs and provide
superior customer services and management information for all of PLN business units. At present the
system is supported by the Directorate of Information Technology at PLN. The work on system planning
applications proceeded to obtain a database of load forecast applications, and on GPS data capture for
substation, generation plant and transmission network. In addition, a load flow database application was
also completed under this activity. The GIS is presently mainly used for mapmaking and geographic
analysis, but its full capability of system simulation and optimization packages have not been fully
explored, particularly since the planning function at PLN has been downgraded from having its own
Directorate of Planning to being a Division within the Directorate of Transmission and Distribution. In
addition, sufficient staff have not been allocated for the capture, conversion and ongoing maintenance of the
GIS map database.

The Suralaya Plant simulator became operational in June 2000 and training was provided for the operation
of its 600-MW. This training contributed substantially to the successful operation of these units, even
though reductions of coal quality were a regular occurrence. Due to price increases of local goods and
services caused by the economic crisis, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply, however, this did
not impact the operation of the simulator.

PLN Restructuring (US$21.8 million, of which US$21.8 million IBRD).

This component is rated as highly satisfactory.

As discussed in Section 3.4, the impact of the crisis and the resulting GOI Power Sector Restructuring
Policy launched in August 1998 changed the design and the pace of the sector restructuring, including
changing the original objective of the activities under the TA component. The outputs of the redesigned TA
were of generally high quality, not only having achieved the original objectives but in several key areas
surpassed the objectives (Section 4.1.A--the outputs of the TA).

II. MME Component

This component is rated as satisfactory.

The achievement of the objectives of this activity is rated satisfactory.          Although the objective of
establishing a regulatory framework through this work was not accomplished, it did provide valuable
insight and inputs to subsequent phases of regulatory development.           Work began in late 1997, was
completed in June 1999 and carried out in the then DGEED (now the Directorate General of Electricity and
Energy Utilization - DGEEU), under the MME. To align it with the Power Sector Restructuring Policy of
August 1998, the work plan was updated to support properly the DGEED in leading the development of the
Electricity Regulatory Agency. The report entitled "Issues and Options for Indonesia New Electricity
Law" provided important inputs for the drafting of the Electricity Law, as well for the developing the new
Electricity Market Supervisory Agency. It also provided support in the preparation of a Grid Code, Tariff
Code, and Planning and Tendering Code, and training on regulation and of the role of regulator.




                                                     - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The SAR calculated an economic internal rate of return on the project's physical components that were part
of PLN's least-cost investment program.          The calculation covered the time slice of the program
corresponding to the project's planned implementation period (1996-2000).             The basis of the EIRR
calculation was the incremental costs and benefits associated with this time slice of the investment program
covering investments in generation, transmission, distribution and the cost of IPPs. The benefits were
based on willingness-to-pay estimates for various consumer groups. The appraisal estimate of the EIRR
was 25 percent. The ICR has re-estimated the EIRR based on a similar methodology but using the time
slice 1996-2003, corresponding to the project's actual implementation period. The ICR's re-estimate of the
EIRR is 16.3 percent. The EIRR was lower than the appraisal estimate due to a variety of factors,
resulting, to a large extent from the financial crisis. These factors included lower sales levels, a longer
implementation period and a reduced level of willingness-to-pay for electricity. Annex 3 provides the
details of the calculations for the ICR re-estimate.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

A financial rate of return was neither calculated at project appraisal, nor at project completion.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated as high.

In the face of extreme financial adversity, the project still was able to bring about a major transformation in
the institutional development of PLN. At the time of project appraisal, in 1995, the utility was operating as
a vertically-integrated, government-owned monopoly within a framework that was not market oriented and
did not encourage private sector participation in power sector operations. By the project's closing in
March 2003, both the legal framework and PLN's structure had changed considerably. The Government
had passed a comprehensive, market-based electricity law (2002) that abolished PLN's monopoly and
allowed other producers to sell directly to customers. Also a major restructuring of PLN had taken place,
transforming PLN into a holding company, with two generation companies; a separation between
transmission system ownership and maintenance and the system's operations; several distribution units; and
a company to handle power trade with IPPs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The economic crisis that beset Indonesia in 1997-1998 was clearly the most important factor outside the
control of both the Government and implementing agency, impacting significantly the sector as a whole and
particularly the financial situation of PLN (see Note 1 in Section 10). The crisis affected the Project in that
payments to contractors were delayed, letters of credit could not be opened and additional costs caused by
implementation delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government had arranged financing of KE-III projects for some 500-kV and 150-kV transmission
lines and substations. In particular for Lot 3, concessionary financing had been arranged for the Kediri and



                                                     - 13 -

Paiton GIL substations. As the cost of financing was depressed (referred to as `cosmetic rates'), the end
result was an increase of the cost of equipment and materials offered by the bidders. This was quite
apparent when a bid for Depok III, a substation of the same size as Kediri, was offered at a much lower
cost than the one for Lot 3. In light of this large differential, GOI mandated a review of all KE- III
projects. This had a very negative effect on the Project's implementation which caused a long delay and
was responsible for a large loss of revenue to PLN as the benefits of the PKK transmission line as expected
at appraisal were only realized after a delay of almost 5 years. Such financing arrangements worked to the
detriment of PLN.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Good Project Management. Despite the economic crisis and PLN financial difficulties, the Project's
Consulting Engineer did an excellent job in coordinating various activities and the work of the contractors,
even in the face of great uncertainty, financial difficulties and implementation delays.

Timely Action on Counterpart Funding. Due to the economic crisis in the region and PLN financial
difficulties, all projects in Indonesia were restructured and unnecessary loan proceeds cancelled. The Loan
Agreement was amended to allow for 100% of local financing (i.e. Bank loan disbursement percentage for
certain expenditures to increase from 65% to 100 % excluding taxes) effective from April 1, 1997 to
October 31, 1999. This timely action relieved considerably the pressure on PLN as it found it increasingly
difficult to make the required counterpart funding available to the Project.

Procurement Performance. Procurement processing was satisfactory. Very few delays were experienced
in the preparation of bidding documents or bid evaluation reports. The second round procurement was
carried out satisfactorily entirely by the Distribution Units.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The estimated total project cost at appraisal, including taxes and interest during construction, was
US$826.5 million equivalent. The latest estimate of the actual project costs and financing required is
US$392.8 million. The project costs were lower for several reasons. First, the original cost estimates were
too high. Second, PLN took over the financing of one of the Project's components. Third, there was a
worldwide decline in the costs of equipment and materials.           Fourth, there were savings in the land
compensation due to PLN taking over the financing of the 150-kV component of the Project.

The Bank loan provided US$209.3 million, compared to US$373 million at appraisal. At the request of the
Borrower a partial cancellation in the amount of US$53.7 million was made on November 21, 2000. In
addition, due to the economic crisis in the region all loans to Indonesia needed to be restructured. For this
loan, US$80 million was cancelled on August 26, 1998, followed by US$30 million on December 13,
1999. The resulting revised loan amount was US$209.3 million equivalent. The undisbursed balance upon
closing of the loan account on July 31, 2003 was US$9.5 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project is likely to be sustainable.

Despite a prolonged dip in performance during implementation, due to the Asian crisis, the objectives the
Project achieved are based on a solid sectoral framework that will probably be a sustainable outcome


                                                      - 14 -

during the economic life of the Project. The comprehensive, market-based electricity law has paved the
way for the sector to operate in a competitive manner. Although regulations associated with the law have
not yet been formally issued, they have been drafted and the short list of regulators is in the final stages of
approval. The regulators and regulations will be in place in the near future and are expected to be
effective. The project's achievements­despite the country's economic and political upheavals­show strong
Government determination to rationalize the sector. Its latest economic package clearly demonstrates that it
intends to move to a much more liberalized economy.

Contracts with IPPs. The contentious issue of the IPPs has basically been resolved--mainly through
negotiations. These efforts will provide the sector with rich experience on how to deal with IPP-type
contracts in the future and the resolution of the issue has also helped open the sector to private capital.

Tariff Levels and PLN Financing. The tariff is at its economic level of US$0.072; this is essentially the
same as before the crisis, but at that time, the exchange rate was about 2,300 rupiah/dollar, compared with
the current rate of 8,300 rupiah/dollar, and demand has been growing at about 7% a year. These numbers
point to consumer willingness to pay and sustainability of the tariff at this level. After major financial
restructuring (Section 4.1), the debt service cover and the debt-to-equity ratios improved substantially. The
rate of return (ROR) is still relatively low (4.5%) but will improve gradually to about 7%, by 2010. At
that point, the sector's structure will probably be different and the ROR will have a different implication.

Corporate Restructuring. PLN's corporate restructuring has advanced significantly, indeed, farther than
the extent envisaged by the Project. This restructuring in discussed in Section 4.1.

Follow-up Bank Support. Sustainability will be reinforced by the recently approved project (Java-Bali
Power Sector Restructuring and Strengthening Project--Loan 4712-ID), which includes covenants on
PLN's financial performance (i.e., ROR, DSCR), establishing an automatic tariff adjustment formula, and
meeting certain milestones for completing the remaining steps towards restructuring PLN and issuing
regulations.

Physical Operation of the Transmission System. The Project's physical components are also likely to be
sustainable, given the long substantial benefits resulting from constructing the facilities (Section 4.2), and
PLN's solid practices with respect to operations and maintenance. Even during the crisis, the Government
always protected the O&M budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transmission Line Operation. All the facilities under the Project are now fully operational. The 500-kV
PKK transmission line is operated by the Transmission Unit (P3B) which is well aware of the importance
of the line in securing economic and system benefits and maintaining the integrity of the Java-Bali system.
The distribution facilities built under the Project have connected additional consumers and providing
additional revenues to the four Distribution Units and hence for PLN Pusat. It is to be expected, therefore,
that these units have the incentive to provide sufficient resources for proper operation and maintenance of
their facilities.  The new project in the sector would ensure that PLN's Corporate and Financial
restructuring is effectively carried out as it is providing technical assistance for its continued
implementation with the ultimate goal of having independent successor generation, transmission and
distribution companies from PLN's operations in Java-Bali by September 30, 2007.

Corporate Development. To facilitate the transition to an unbundled power sector, the focus at PLN has
been, in the last few years, on decentralization and empowerment of operational units by making them


                                                      - 15 -

strategic business units (SBUs). SBU managers now exercise full responsibility of energy sales, including
the expansion of the distribution network. One of the objectives of the Project is of improving efficiency;
which is the main focus of PLN's Efficiency Drive Program, which aims at ensuring that tariffs reflect
efficient operation of the system.

Monitoring Plan.       During the supervision of the new Java-Bali Power Sector Restructuring and
Strengthening Project, which has various components to strengthen the 500-kV and 150-kV systems, as
well as a large IT component, would allow for the close monitoring of the performance of the transmission
and subtransmission systems in Java-Bali.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

See Section 3.5 Quality at Entry

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory.

The Bank established a very close and effective working relationship with GOI, PLN, as well as with ADB
and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). It provided substantial timely assistance to GOI
during the economic crisis. The concerted efforts of the three banks (World Bank, ADB and JBIC) was
cited by the GOI and private banks as exemplary in the power sector, particularly in mitigating the issues
arising out of the problems with the IPPs, and the passing of the Electricity Law. The supervision staff for
the project had considerable country experience. A total of 13 supervision missions were fielded, including
the ICR mission. The Bank project team comprised adequate skills and maintained good rapport with
PLN, DGEED (now DGEEU) and other counterparts.

The supervision missions were carried out in combination with other supervision or preparation for other
projects.  The frequency, timing, duration and skill mix of the supervision missions are considered
adequate.    The supervision aide-memoires were well prepared with very detailed findings and
recommendations recorded. Follow-up letters were sent to the borrower on a timely basis. Project Status
Reports were updated regularly; however, the early PSRs had limited use as they included only very few
details and useful information.

From the outset, the supervision team was concerned about updating the resettlement action plans (RAPs)
as had been agreed during negotiations. The team also requested PLN to draft a Public Information
Booklet to contain a general policy for land acquisition and compensation and grievance redressal
mechanism.      The Bank was concerned with the suitability of public information and consultation
procedures, and in PLN's `socialization' efforts, which proved to be insufficient and the cause of delay.

The supervision team also reacted swiftly to the problems caused by the economic crisis in early 1998 and
implementation delays. The situation required various extensions of contract, as well as the restructuring
of the Project needed due to lack of counterpart funding, as well as large undisbursed balance. However,
the team could not prevent the collapse of the KE III Lot 3 financing, because the circumstances
surrounding this component were really beyond the control of the Bank or PLN for that matter.




                                                   - 16 -

In 1998 both the Project implementation progress (IP) and development objective (DO) ratings were
downgraded to "Unsatisfactory" due to various implementation delays; the economic crisis in the region,
and resulting financial meltdown of PLN.           The implementation status was changed in 1999 to
"Satisfactory" in view of the imminent completion of the stringing of the 500-kV transmission line, even
though the line could not yet be energized. However, the DO rating remained "Unsatisfactory" until 2001,
at which time it was upgraded based on PLN proceeding with the TA on PLN's Corporate and Financial
Restructuring. The ICR has reviewed these decisions and has decided to maintain "Satisfactory" IP and
DO ratings, based on the commitment to forge ahead with its restructuring, and the successful operation of
the project's physical components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

The rating recognizes the excellent efforts of the team in keeping the Project under way even in the face of
design deficiencies and sustained commitment of both PLN and GOI of almost insurmountable difficulties
caused by the economic crisis in the region.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory.

Both GOI and PLN were committed to the Project in view of the importance given to the completion of the
500-kV line, which was to be the first stage in the completion of the entire southern loop. There was
general agreement on the need for the line to increase the transmission transfer capability to evacuate power
from the Paiton IPPs after their commissioning in 1999. However, the financial crisis and co-financing
issues led to important delay in Project implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Borrower's performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory.

In August 1998, GOI officially launched the Power Sector Restructuring Policy, which provided the
framework for restructuring of the power sector and for restoring the financial viability of PLN. When the
Project began in early 1996, GOI did not approve the required tariff increases due to political sensitivity,
which substantially affected PLN's financial situation prior to the crisis. However, it did approve tariff
increases after the crisis in 2000, 2001 and 2002, and for most of 2003. In June 2001, GOI approved the
debt restructuring of PLN and in June 2002 it also approved a Cabinet decision to allow new borrowing by
PLN. Finally, in September 2002, the new Electricity Law was enacted. There were problems created by
the KE-III Lot 3 debacle. Also, due to the economic crisis in the Region and PLN financial collapse,
counterpart funds were no longer available for the Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Implementing Agency's performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory.

PLN did a substantial amount of preparatory work for both the physical and institutional components.
There were implementation delays, though most were not within PLN's control. It was caught in a difficult
situation regarding financing of the Project as well as the availability of counterpart funding.


                                                     - 17 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

The Borrower addressed the pricing issues resulting from the financial crisis in an efficient way and
demonstrated its commitment to power sector reform and opening of the electricity market in the medium
term.

8. Lessons Learned

Engaging the Government in Intense Policy Dialogue and Coordinating with Other Donors Can
Salvage a Project.      The project's objectives for restructuring of the power sector for competition and
private sector participation along with major investments in physical infrastructure would have been
challenging under favorable circumstances and could have been jeopardized by the economic crisis that
affected Indonesia and other Asian countries during 1997-98. However, experience gained during the
implementation of this project clearly indicate that intensive policy dialogue and a close working
relationship with the Government, PLN and other donor agencies working in Indonesia are very important
to put back a project on track when facing major crises during implementation.

Setting a Realistic Time Frame for Power Sector Restructuring. The restructuring of a power sector
from a government-owned monopoly to a competitive market system is likely to require a long time,
depending on the preparatory work to create the necessary legal framework. At the time of project
appraisal, the Bank had very little practical experience in this area.          As a result it substantially
underestimated the amount of time to formulate and implement the regulations required and create the
necessary institutional framework.

Developing Effective Risk Mitigation Measures to Deal with Past Project Implementation Problems.
In its discussion of past experience and lessons learned at appraisal, the Bank called attention to delays due
to extended procurement cycles and problems with land acquisition for transmission projects. In addition,
the SAR cited the use of outdated cost estimates by PLN and shortcomings in the performance of technical
assistance components due to limited absorptive capacity. The mitigation measures the SAR proposed to
deal with these problems were the implementing agency's agreement to use standardized procurement
documents; the fostering of "ownership" of the technical assistance by the implementing units within PLN;
and PLN's use of updated prices in preparing cost estimates. Nevertheless, the project experienced all of
the implementation problems that were supposed to be mitigated. As a result, it would be advisable for the
Bank to conduct a more intensive review of cost estimates for investment components and give more
careful consideration to the sizing and monitoring of the technical assistance components. Concerning land
acquisition and compensation policies for transmission lines, it might be helpful for the Bank to review
some best practice examples in the design of similar policies in the future. Furthermore, it would be
advisable, especially in case of major economic crisis, for the Bank to conduct a very thorough mid-term
review for a realistic assessment of implementation prospects and modify the project's design as required.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Project Objective

The objective of the Project, as clearly stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, is to improve the customer
services of PLN. This objective would be achieved by doing the following things:


                                                    - 18 -

    l Increasing the physical capacity, efficiency and reliability of the Java-Bali transmission system and
         distribution network,

    l Promoting sector efficiency, competition and private sector participation by implementing
         functional decentralization (unbundling) of PLN operations in Java-Bali and developing effective
         regulatory oversight and institutions.

Operation

The 500-kV Transmission Lines Paiton-Kediri-Klaten (Pedan) with 413.13 km double circuits have been
put in to commercial operation in two stages. In the first stage, since the 500-kV Kediri Substation was
still not finished, the Transmission Line was utilized to transfer the power from Paiton directly to Klaten
(Pedan) Substation, by-passing Kediri Substation. This operation was done for one circuit only, over the
period of 30 September 2000 until 30 September 2003. The second stage was completed on 30 September
2003. Since this date, the 500-kV Transmission Line double circuits have been fully in operation from GIL
500-kV Paiton to 500-kV Kediri Substation and then to 500-kV Klaten (Pedan) Substation.

To keep the Project for long life sustainability PLN has provided sufficient budget for operation and
maintenance to ensure the reliability of transferring energy.

Our PLN P3B has noted that since 4 April 2002, this transmission line has increased the transfer of energy
from East Java to Central Java by as much as 1163 megawatt (MW). Other advantages that this line has
given the Java-Bali System are as follows:

    l Increasing the reliability of Java-Bali system since the existing backbone West Surabaya­Ungaran
         has been strengthened by the south backbone Paiton-Kediri-Ungaran;

    l Maximizing the utilization of the Paiton SPP by facilitating the transferring the energy produced;

    l Decreasing the energy production cost (Rupiah/kWh) in Java-Bali System;


In Jakarta and Tangerang, all contracts were signed in March and April in the year of 2000. The projects
have been completed and put in to the operation in the middle of July 2001.

For the West Java Distribution Office, all projects have been put in to the operation since 1 December
2002.

Although the final completion of the Project in the Central Java and Yogyakarta provinces was only
achieved at the end of November 2000, most parts of the Project have been successfully put in to the
operation since August 2000.

For East Java Distribution Office, all projects were completely finished and put in to the operation since
July 2001.

Major factors affecting the Project

(See also Section 10).

As normally found in Transmission Line projects, in this 500-kV Transmission Line Paiton-Kediri-Klaten
project, the problem of clearing the right of way (ROW) was one of the major factors that affected the



                                                     - 19 -

implementation of the Project. Within this problem, the difficulties derived from the property owners,
among others may be mentioned as follows:

   l Landowners refused to allow the transmission line to be installed over their land;

   l Landowners refused to sell their land for transmission line project;

   l Some remaining unused land should also receive compensation;

   l For some cases, the price of the land claimed by the owners was too high and sometimes it was
        un-negotiable.

Although the implementation of the Project in general ran well, it is noted that for Distribution Projects, the
completions were several months behind the contracted schedules. The major factors affecting the Project
may be mentioned as follows:

   l To get the formal permit (license) from the Local Government/ Authority for the installation of the
        Project took longer than was normally expected;

   l For the connection works, in some cases it was found difficult to find the existing 20-kV
        underground cables due to the widening of the roads, which caused some cables, to have become
        buried almost in the middle of the roads;

   l It was also difficult to have an agreed schedule for blacking-out the lines needed for connection
        works, especially in those vital locations such as industrial areas and the government installations
        and offices.

In addition to those stated above, it can be noted that during the implementation of the Project some
locations flooded in Central Java which made it difficult for the transportation of material to the project
sites and the same problem also for the installation. In several locations some local people refused to cut
their coconut trees although the compensation is given.

The specific problem faced by the East Java Distribution Office was the fact that some materials such as
the 20-kV straight joints needed to connect to the existing cubicles were not included in the scope of works
of the subject project.

Bank Performance

The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory except for Quality at Entry which was discussed in the
previous sections of this report. It is also noted that the Bank's regularly fielded supervision missions
during the implementation of the project, played a leading role in assisting PLN to complete the Project.

Borrower Performance

The performance of PLN is deemed to be generally satisfactory. The experiences gained from the previous
projects have given the significant contribution to the success implementation of the projects. Although the
completion of the project were several months behind the schedule, since the main factors affecting the
projects were beyond the control of PLN, it is fairly to say that the implementation of the project has been
successfully completed.




                                                     - 20 -

Main findings and lessons learned

Since the 500-kV Transmission Line Paiton-Kediri-Klaten was not the first time project for our PLN
Project Office in Java, technical and administration matters were not something new to those personnel
involved in the implementation of the project. However, the experience of coping with the social matters
especially in clearing the ROW is still considered as a lesson learned from the implementation of the subject
project.

The main findings and lessons learned from the implementation of the Distribution Projects may be
mentioned as follows:

    l The plan for the project has been completed almost 2 years before the implementation started. This
        time gap has forced to relocate some projects in order to fit with the latest priority needs;

    l In some locations there were significant changes of area condition such as from hard soil to
        hot-mixed asphalt and/or concreted roads. These changes made it difficult for digging works for
        the 20-kV underground cables. In some locations the local society even refused to allow the
        digging works. All these have forced to increase the project costs as well as to extend the
        implementation of the projects;

    l The relocation of project needs to have new permit/ license from Local Government/ Authority.
        Since the process of getting permit takes time, this forces to extend the implementation of the
        project;

    l For the West Java Distribution project, the procurement with International Competitive Bidding
        was the first experience. Therefore, it was noted that the Contractors in the West Java province
        still found it difficult to follow the Bidding Procedures as well as to prepare Bidding Documents in
        English. Other experiences that are considered to be new to the Distribution Offices were the
        procedure of opening Letter of Credit (L/C) and the procedure of disbursement. All those things
        were also becoming the lessons learned for the distribution projects.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Note 1. The Asian Crisis affected the power sector substantially. The Rupiah devalued from about 2,250
to the dollar in mid-1995 to 15,000 by mid-1998. This devastated PLN's finances, and the effective tariff
was reduced from about US$0.07 per kWh to about US$0.025 per kWh. Revenues were also reduced
because of a substantial drop in demand, which shrank by 0.5% in 1999. Further, while PLN's revenues
were in rupiahs, most of its costs were in hard currency, including fuel from Pertamina and others;
multinational debt service; and power from the IPPs, which was exacerbated by the take-or-pay offtake
obligations into which it had entered.

These changes transformed PLN from a moderately profitable company to one which by 1999, was
virtually insolvent and survived only through huge Government subsidies for its day-to-day operations.
PLN became unable to meet its obligations for foreign current-denominated debt service payments, fuel
costs, and power purchases from IPPs. By the end of 2002, its losses amounted to over US$5 billion, its



                                                     - 21 -

ROR was minus 4% to minus 10%, and debt service coverage ratio ranged from 0 to 0.1 times. PLN
found it difficult to secure counterpart funds, and some contracts financed by export credit agencies had
become contentious due to their high cost.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The logframe matrix and related output indicators were not applicable to this project. The SAR provided a
set of system performance indicators but the projections became invalid after the 1997/1998 economic
crisis. The supervision mission continued to monitor the same set of indicators, for which the following
two tables provide actual figures.

  Performance Indicators for                   1996       1997        1998        2000      2001      2002
  JAVA-BALI
  SAIFI (no. of outages/customer/year)         11.44      9.63       12.41        9.48      12.34      9.26
  SAIDI (hours/customer/year)                  12.64      10.06       9.77        7.07       8.50      8.32
  T&D Losses (%)                               12.70      13.50      14.19       12.07      16.08*   17.44*
  Available Reserve Margin (%)**                           22          36          32        27        17
  New Connections (millions)                   1.64       1.71        1.19      0.70***    0.89***   0.72***
  Energy Sales (GWh)                          45,936     51,511      51,077      62,431     66,298   68,306
  Peak Load (MW)                               8,822     10,016      9,876       12,231     12,041   13,374

    *    Due to change of procedure to account for losses and slight increase in distribution losses in JEDU
         caused mainly by overloading.
    **   Available Capacity = Installed Capacity less Derated Capacity less Long-term Outage Capacity less
         non-Commissioned Capacity less Capacity to be Relocated less Constrained Capacity
    *** PLN reduced the number of new connections due to financial constraints. The number of connections is
         significant given the impact of the macroeconomic/financial crisis on PLN finances.

JAVA-BALI TRANSMISSION UNIT

Performance Indicators for the                 1996      1997      1998        1999      2000     2001     2002
JAVA-BALI TRANSMISSION UNIT
Transmission Losses                            2.85      2.44       2.31       2.61      2.63     2.32     2.55

Transmission Line Faults (times/year/100
kmc)                                           1.54      1.82       2.12       0.00      0.03     0.80     0.16
500 kV                                         2.74      2.28       2.38       0.53      1.89     2.95     0.39
150 kV
Duration of Faults (minutes/faults
500 kV                                          42         *         28                   0                2.26
150 kV                                          30                   59                   26               8.16

Employee Productivity (GWh/employee)           8.52      9.65       9.91       11.64    13.42     15.48   18.30

* major incident in 1997




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal         Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                             Estimate            Estimate        Appraisal

             Component                      US$ million        US$ million

A. PLN Component
500 kV Transmission*                          357.8                174.7           48.8%

150 kV Transmission*                           54.7                  0.0           0.0%

Distribution                                  119.2                 98.5           82.6%

Project Engineering                            11.9                  3.8           32.1%

PLN Restructuring                              20.2                  8.9           44.2%

Efficiency Improvement                           6.6                 3.9           59.2%


B. MME Component                                 2.0                 2.3          113.6%


Total Baseline Cost                           572.4                292.1           51.0%

Contingencies                                  76.2

                   Total Project Costs        648.6                292.1           45.0%
                         Taxes and IDC        177.9                100.7

            Total Financing Required          826.5                392.8           47.5%

* Includes Resettlement and Land Acquisition



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                 Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
                         Bank    PLN/     Total    Bank    PLN/GOI     Total Bank     PLN/     Total
                                  GOI                                                 GOI

PLN Component            371.0   453.3    824.3    207.2     183.3     390.5  56%     40%       47%

MME Component             2.0      0.2     2.2      2.1       0.2       2.3  105%     100%     105%

Total Financing          373.0   453.5    826.5    209.3     183.5     392.8  56%     40%       48%




                                                   - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
   (Without taxes and duties)
                                                         Procurement Method1


   Expenditure Category              ICB            NCB          Other           N.B.F.        Total Cost


1. Works                               0.0           0.0           0.0            27.8            27.8
                                        0.0          0.0           0.0             0.0             0.0

2. Goods                            445.2            0.0           0.0            92.3            537.5
                                    (338.4)          0.0           0.0             0.0           (338.4)

3. Services                             0.0          0.0          34.6             4.7            39.3
                                        0.0          0.0         (34.6)            0.0           (34.6)

4. Miscellaneous                        0.0          0.0           0.0            44.1            44.1
                                        0.0          0.0           0.0             0.0             0.0


   Total                             445.2           0.0          34.6            168.9           648.6
                                    (338.4)          0.0         (34.6)            0.0           (373.0)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
(Not including Taxes or IDC)
                                                            Procurement Method
 Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB              Other2             N.B.F.          Total Cost



1. Works*                         23.4                0.0               0.0                0.0              23.4
                                 (19.7)               0.0               0.0                0.0              (19.7)
2. Goods                         242.0                0.0               0.0                0.0              242.0
                                (174.1)               0.0               0.0                0.0             (174.1)
3. Services                        0.0                0.0               15.5               0.0              15.5
                                   0.0                0.0              (15.5)              0.0              (15.5)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.0                0.0               0.0                11.1             11.1
                                   0.0                0.0               0.0                0.0                0.0
                                                                                                              0.0
   Total                          265.4               0.0               15.5               11.1             292.1
                                (193.8)               0.0              (15.5)              0.0             (209.3)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.             All costs include
       contingencies.
    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
       services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
       and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds
       to local government units.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



                                                                        ANNEX 3
                                                   Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project
                                                Calculation of EIRR on Java Investment (1995/6 - 2002/2003)


Base Year          1995                                                                                             Real Discount Rate                               12%
  Year            COSTS (US$ million)                                                      BENEFITS                                                  BENEFITS        Total   Benefit - cost
                                                                                  Total            Incremental Sales                     Total      (US$ million)    cost    (US$ million)
                                    Other       Res.    Comm.    Public  IndustrialSales Res.    Comm.      Public      Industrial     Incr. sales
          Gen    T&D        Total   Costs*     (GWh)    (GWh)   (GWh)     (GWh)(GWh)(GWh)        (GWh)      (GWh)        (GWh)          (GWh)           (1)           (2)      (1) - (2)




 1995      1513    1536      3049         76   12,606    3,845   2,065    21,618              0        0           0              0               0            0       3,125       -3,125
 1996      1356    1119      2475        162   14,406    4,851   2,305    24,374          1,800    1,006         240         2,756            5,802        422.4       2,637       -2,215
 1997      1597     966      2562         62   16,660    5,624   2,567    26,660          4,054    1,779         502         5,042          11,377         828.2       2,625       -1,796
 1998       215     259        473      -219   18,070    6,281   2,636    24,089          5,464    2,436         571         2,471          10,943         796.6         254           542
 1999       102     296        398       179   19,430    6,541   2,677    27,529          6,824    2,696         612         5,911          16,043       1,168.0         577           591
 2000        99     188        287       378   22,018    6,589   2,857    29,969          9,412    2,744         792         8,351          21,299       1,550.6         666           885
 2001        35       90       125       162   23,729    8,199   2,975    31,396         11,123    4,354         910         9,778          26,164       1,904.8         287        1,618
 2002        42       96       137       350   24,056    8,511   3,105    32,634         11,450    4,666       1,040        11,016          28,172       2,050.9         488        1,563
 2003       183     151        334       460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         794        1,648
 2004                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2005                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2006                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2007                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2008                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2009                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2010                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2011                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2012                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2013                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2014                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2015                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2016                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2017                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2018                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2019                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2020                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2021                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2022                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2023                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2024                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2025                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2026                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2027                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2028                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982
 2029                                    460   27,502    9,907   3,421    36,290         11,450    6,062       1,356        14,672          33,540       2,441.8         460        1,982



*        IPP Payments plus Incremental Fuel and O&M costs                                                           NPV                   $2,895.15               EIRR              16.26%




The negative amount in the year 1998 in the incremental value of "other Costs," which corresponds to costs
associated with IPP payments, fuel and O&M costs, is due principally to the large drop in the exchange
rate in the year 1998: from an average of 2,953 Rp/US$ in 1997 to an average of 9,875 Rp/US$ in 1998.
This large dropped caused a corresponding large drop in the US$ denominated fuel costs. The data shows
that the fuel consumption in 1998 increased only marginally by about 0.4%, compared to an average
increase of about 18% in the period 1995-1997. Hence a large drop in the exchange rate would cause a
corresponding large drop in the US$ denominated fuel costs.




                                                                                           - 26 -

               Assumptions made in the evaluation of the EIRR.


                         Exchange rates and tariffs.

              Year          Nominal
                           Exchange         Nominal Tariffs
                             Rate1             Rp/kWh2

              1995            2239                163
              1996            2348                165
              1997            2953                169
              1998            9875                211
              1999            7809                220
              2000            8527                280
              2001           10266                335
              2002            9261                448
              2003            8518                556


            1       Bank of Indonesia
            2       PLN Annual Report




                                    Sales

         Residential      Commercial           Public         Industrial
 Year     (GWh)              (GWh)             (GWh)           (GWh)

 1995     12,606              3,845             2,065          21,618
 1996     14,406              4,851             2,305          24,374
 1997     16,660              5,624             2,567          26,660
 1998     18,070              6,281             2,636          24,089
 1999     19,430              6,541             2,677          27,529
 2000     22,018              6,589             2,857          29,969
 2001     23,729              8,199             2,975          31,396
 2002     24,056              8,511             3,105          32,634
 2003     27,502              9,907             3,421          36,290
2004-29   constant           constant         constant         constant




                                     - 27 -

                Assumed Fuel Prices (from PLN Annual Reports)


      Year       HSD          IDO         MFO           GAS          Coal     Geothermal
               Rp/liter     Rp/liter     Rp/liter   Rp/MMSCF         Rp/kg      Rp/kWh
      1995      409.5         378.9        258.27       5689.9       75.1         90.2
      1996      404.3         457.0        256.82       5921.1       71.0        108.9
      1997      381.9         379.8        258.16       7080.1       56.9         99.1
      1998      305.0         477.6        370.58       21319.6      91.5        254.0
      1999      570.1         534.1        376.17       20376.4      144.2       246.2
      2000      639.2         543.0        383.05       21217.1      155.4       221.6
      2001      898.3         927.1        672.72       25637.5      203.7       301.2
      2002      1377.3       1425.9        1143.34      23738.4      222.1       315.6
      2003      1404.8       1454.4        1166.21      24213.1      226.5       321.9




                                  Fuel consumption

Year     HSD           IDO           MFO            GAS             Coal        Geothermal
        10^3 Ltr     10^3 Ltr      10^3 Ltr      MMSCF               ton           GWh
1995     265,389.0    19,220.0     1,069,326.0     195,561.0      4,872,377.0      2,210.0
1996     583,046.0     8,707.0     1,038,621.0     208,005.0      7,043,602.0      2,352.4
1997   1,008,769.0    19,014.0     1,389,738.0     198,359.0      8,656,945.0      2,605.3
1998     968,000.0    11,008.0     1,032,818.0     191,273.0      9,343,460.0      2,616.8
1999   1,181,055.1     5,312.4     1,136,353.1     205,603.8     10,172,568.0      2,727.7
2000   1,018,405.8     5,309.9     1,517,492.8     197,046.1     11,817,295.8      2,648.5
2001   1,298,320.8     7,353.1     1,443,414.6     190,233.9     12,039,309.4      2,908.4
2002   2,067,037.3    11,346.5     1,939,015.6     159,646.4     11,894,309.8      3,055.7
2003   2,476,310.7    15,525.5     1,874,834.1     150,706.2     11,764,996.2      3,055.7


                                  Fuel Cost                                             MRp
                                                                                   (Nominal)
  Year     HSD         IDO        MFO          GAS          Coal     Geothermal     Total


  1995     108,679.4   7,282.7    276,174.8  1,112,718.6  365,671.9     199,229.7 2,069,757.1
  1996     235,719.7   3,978.8    266,738.6  1,231,610.1  499,814.0     256,123.9 2,493,985.0
  1997     385,289.2   7,222.1    358,774.8  1,404,397.6  492,926.4     258,235.4 2,906,845.5
  1998     295,269.0   5,257.1    382,741.7  4,077,867.7  854,646.3     664,641.0 6,280,422.8
  1999     673,272.3   2,837.6    427,461.9  4,189,461.2 1,466,477.4    671,539.8 7,431,050.2
  2000     650,985.4   2,883.3    581,275.6  4,180,744.8 1,836,880.5    586,810.5 7,839,580.1
  2001    1,166,281.6  6,817.1    971,013.9  4,877,112.1 2,452,166.5    876,085.3 10,349,476.4
  2002    2,846,930.5  16,178.8 2,216,954.1  3,789,744.0 2,641,206.5    964,287.2 12,475,301.1
  2003    4,085,912.6  25,617.0 2,924,741.3  3,649,068.7 2,823,599.1    983,573.0 14,492,511.6




                                        - 28 -

                Fuel Costs


 Year             M US$ (Nominal)         M US$ (Constant 95)

 1995                    924.4                   924.4
 1996                  1,062.2                   946.7
 1997                    984.4                   781.9
 1998                    636.0                   450.3
 1999                    951.6                   600.5
 2000                    919.4                   517.0
 2001                  1,008.1                   505.3
 2002                  1,347.1                   601.8
 2003                  1,701.4                   677.4


           IPP Payments (PLN Accounting)


  Year         M US$ (Nominal)          M US$ (Constant 95)

  1995
  1996
  1997
  1998               54.59                   38.65
  1999               432.51                 272.91
  2000               969.49                 545.23
  2001               673.04                 337.35
  2002               945.43                 422.35
  2003             1,116.47                 444.53
2004-2029          constant                 constant




                     - 29 -

       Assumed Generation, Transmission and Distribution Costs

                                                                     M US$ (Nominal)

          Year           Generation            Transmission          Distribution

          1995              1,512.8               801.4                734.3
          1996              1,518.7               818.8                434.7
          1997              2,002.8               699.2                512.1
          1998               301.6                212.4                151.0
          1999               160.9                397.8                  67.2
          2000               174.1                266.7                  65.3
          2001                 69.0                97.5                  80.2
          2002                 92.5               112.8                  98.5
          2003               453.5                203.0                170.7



Operation and Maintenance costs are set at 2.5% of accumulated investment costs.
                                                   M US$ (Constant 95)

          Year     Generation     Transmission         Distribution

          1995       1,512.8         801.4                734.3
          1996       1,353.6         729.7                387.4
          1997       1,590.9         555.4                406.8
          1998        213.5          150.4                106.9
          1999        101.5          251.0                 42.4
          2000          97.9         150.0                 36.7
          2001          34.6          48.9                 40.2
          2002          41.3          50.4                 44.0
          2003        180.6           80.8                 68.0




                                    - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                  Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/30/1995                  7    Transmission/Distribution
                                              Engineer (1)
                                              Financial Analyst (1)
                                              Procurement Specialist (1)
                                              Economist (2)
                                              Sector Specialist (1)
                                              Resettlement & Social Issues
                                              Specialist (1)
              9/26/1995                  3    Power Engineer (1); Financial
              (Post Appraisal)                Economist (2)
              01/11/1996                 9    Country Director (1)
              (Negotiations                   Project Adviser (1)
              in Washington DC)               Division Chief (1)
                                              Energy Economist (1)
                                              Financial Economist (1)
                                              Power Engineer (1)
                                              Legal Counsel (1)
                                              Disbursement Officer (1)
                                              Resettlement Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              3/27/1996                  6    Power Engineer (1)                  S               S
                                              Fin./Economist (3)
                                              Procurement Specialist (1)
                                              Operations Officer (1)
              11/22/1996                 3    Power Engineer (1)                  S               S
                                              Operations Engineer (1)
                                              Fin./Economist (1)
              04/18/1997                 4    Power Engineer (1)                  S               S
                                              Operations Officer (1)
                                              Financial Economist (1)
                                              Resettlement Specialist (1)
              08/22/1997                 7    Economist-Jakarta Off. (1);         S               S
                                              Power Engineer (1)
                                               Operations Officer (1);
                                              Economist (1); Resettlement
                                              Specialist (1); Distribution
                                              Engineer (1); Engineer-Jakarta
                                              Off. (1)
              11/28/1997                 7    Economist-Jakarta Off. (1);         S               S
                                              Power Engineer (1); Operations
                                              Officer (1); Economist (1);
                                              Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                              Distribution Engineer (1);
                                              Engineer-Jakarta Off. (1)




                                               - 31 -

               05/15/1998              3   Economist (1); Power Engineer        U    U
                                           (1); Engineer-Jakarta Off. (1)
               12/09/1998              4   Power Engineer (1); Procurement      U    U
                                           Specialist-Jakarta Off. (1);
                                           Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Analyst (1)
               02/18/1999              3   Power Engineer (1); Financial        S    U
                                           Specialist (1); Resettlement
                                           Specialist (1)
               09/19/2000              2   Energy Specialist (1); Power         S    U
                                           Engineer (1)
               10/29/2001              3   Leads Energy Specialist (1); Sr.     S    S
                                           Power Engineer (1); Consultant
                                           (1)
               05/10/2002              5   Power Engineer (1); Energy           S    S
                                           Specialist (1); Task Manager (1);
                                           Financial Analyst (1); Operations
                                           Officer (1)
               09/02/2002              8   Mission Leader (1); Power            S    S
                                           Engineer (1); Operations Officer
                                           (1); Energy Sector Expert (1);
                                           Environmental Expert (1);
                                           Financial Management
                                           Specialist (1); Consultant (1);
                                           Environment Expert (1)


 ICR
               11/17/2003             3     Task Manager (1)
                                            Power Engineer (1)
                                            Energy Expert (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 51.4                            167.3
  Supervision                          177.2                            912.1
  ICR                                   1.56                              45.2
  Total                                290.2                           1314.4




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Sector Restructuring




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  PLN Corporate and Financial Restructuring, Final Report, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, March 2003

2.  Corporate Geographic Information System Strategy and System Planning Application, PT Gamma
    Epsilon with PT Kwarsa and Sinclair-Knight-Merz, Inc, November 1999.

3.  Progress Reports for Engineering Services for the Construction Supervision of 500 kV Transmission
    and Substation Project, Merz and MaLellan in association with Lahmeyer International and
    Connusa.

4.  Consulting Services for the Establishment of Jakarta Electric Distribution Unit (JEDU) as an
    Investment Center, Hagler Bailly, December 1999.

5.  Developing the Indonesia Electricity Regulatory Agency, Hagler Bailly, June 1999.

6.  CIS-RISI Chronology (CIS JEDU), Bandung Institute of Technology/NETWAY, January 2003.

7.  Integrated Resource Planning Program, IRP Working Group, PT PLN (Persero), June 2002.

8.  Recommendations for Development of PLN IT, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, January 28, 2002.

9.  JEDU Progress Report ­ Hagler Bailly, Presentation to the Board of Director PT PLN (Persero),
    March 24, 1999.

10. Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan for 500 kV Transmission Lines Paiton ­ Kediri.

11. Monitoring Report (Quarterly Report II) Transmission Lines of 500 kV Klaten ­ Kediri, PT PLN
    (Persero).

12. Completion Report of Distribution Management Program for PT PLN.

13. Annual Report 1995-2002, PT PLN (Persero).

14. Rencana Jangka Panjang Peresahaan (RJPP), Tahun 2001-2005, PT PLN (Persero), 13 December
    2001.

15. Review of PLN's Load Forecast and Investment Programme for Java-Bali, Meritec, March 2001.

16. Electricity Law, Republic of Indonesia, September 4, 2002.

17. Report and Recommendation of the President to the Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Republic of
    Indonesia for the Power Sector Restructuring Program, Asian Development Bank, March 1999.

18. Special Report on the 500 kV Transmission and Substation Project, Merz and McLellan, January
    2000.

19. Indonesia Electricity Tariff Rationalization Study, prepared for the ADB, Hagler Bailly, May 1999.

20. Technical and Economic Assessment of Medium Term Power Supply Options for Bali, Meritec Ltd,
    July 2002.

21. Indonesia, Energy Sector Assistance Strategy, World Bank, FY01-03

22. Indonesia, Review of Electricity Supply and Demand on Java-Bali: a Framework for Prioritizing
    System Investments, World Bank, June 2001.




                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

