Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
A.  .  /........)  .( ....   
Repor No.P-6271-CRG
MFMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONA, BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPHENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQllIVALENT TO US$20 MILLION
AND A
CREDIT OF SDR 7.8 MILLION
TO THE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
JUNE 1, 1994
Pe, 1(i: .'GvAF i: ! i.
.~~~~~~~~PG _j 'j X 1I.: M(
This document has a restricted distribution and m.
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bazk auuorizanon.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS'
US$1.00            BDS$2.00 (Barbados)
-     3BZ$2.00 (Belize)
=     EC$2.70 (Eastern Caiibbean)'
-     G$130.75 (Guyana)
=     J$31.83 (Jamaica)
-     TIT$5.81 (Trinidad and Tobago)
=     B$1.00  (The Bahamas)
ABBREVIATIONS
BMCs         - Borrowing Member Countries
CARICOM    - Caribbean Community
CDB          - Caribbean Development Bank
CGCED        - Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
DFCs         - Development Finance Companies
ECLAC        - Economic Comnmission for Latin America and Caribbean
FIs          - Financial Intermediaries
GAAT         - General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
HRD          - Human Resource Development
LDCs         - Less Developed Countries
MDCs         - More Developed Countries
MOU          - Memorandum of Understanding
NAFTA        - North America Free Trade Agreement
OCR          - Ordinary Capital Resources
OECD         - Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
OECS         - Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCR          - Project Completion Report
PPAR         - Project Performance Audit Report
SFR          - Special Fund Resources
UNDP         - United Nations Development Program
CDB's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1./   As of December 1993.
2./   Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent
and the Grenadines, and Montserrat.



FOR OFFIJCIAL USE ONLY
(CARIBBEAN D)EI_' OPMI_LNTl BANK
SIXIH CAR11313FAN I)DEVI J. 0)PVl VIN T  NK lBA ()K I ( I
LOQAN ( !EDIT AND _'PROJI (.l  MNMAlAY
Borrower:           Caribbean Developuincut BanK (( *l) B
Benieficiaries:    PIublic and )i is ate enrtitics and LniltrpriTsTs 1 ( '1 )    I mc u.1  L- Countrics
elijrjible fOr receivinp IBI)  1 1 )A fInIIIL.
Amount:             US$20.0 iillion e(utlivalelt I BR1)  :n
SDR 7.8 mnlihon (t iSl 1l0 .i Iliuon) 11).\ (rd i-
Termiis:           IBRD loan to (D1)13  II \cd ano.uzatioi  Ie 7inI: I ? crs incluidilng a
grace period of 5 years at the IBRD standard variable interest rate.
IDA credit to CDB: standard, with 40 years maturitv.
Onlending Terms:  (i)   lThe proceeds of the IBRD loan would be onlent by CDB at
CDB's standard variable rate, whichl is currently 7.5%. The
amortization period of the sublojns ssould be delrnmined by
CDB on1 project grounds.
(ii)   Disbursements of the IDA credit, blended with IBRD funds,
would be relent by CDB for subprojects in eligible OECS
countries which have sound economic policies or would have
agreed to adopt adjustment programs acceptable to IBRD/IDA
and CDB, and would have not fully attained creditworthiness for
exclusive IBRD lending. Financing would be IBRD/IDA blend
witlh IBRD portion not less than 50% for every subproject in
eligible OECS countries. The onlent credits to the OECS
governments would have maturities not exceeding 35 years.
Guyana would be entitled to maturities not exceeding 40 years.
The borrowing governments would onlend IDA resources to
subborrowers on commercial terms so that the benefit of IDA
concessionary terms could accrue to the governments. For the
IBRD loan and the IDA credit, the foreign exchange risk would
be home by the CDB's borrowers.
Financing Plan:     CDB (own resources)        $17 million
CDB (cofinanciers)         $ S million
Subborrowers               S12 million
IBRD/IDA                   $31 million
Total              US$68 million
Poverty CategoTy:   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 12775-CRG
MAP:                IBRD 10611R3
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othermise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BAINK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE CAR1'3BEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDt3)
1.         I submit for your approval the following memorandumn and recommendation on a
proposed US$20 million loan and SDR 7.8 inillion (US$1 1 million) development credit to the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). The Loan and Credit would help CDB finance
subprojects of the types which the Bank!' itself woould finance. The Loan would be
repayable over a period of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the IBRD standard
variable interest rate and the Credit would be on standard IlA terms with 40 years maturity.
Background
2.         CDB serves twelve English-speaking (Commonwealth Caribbean) countries2'
which share a common heritage, including a parliamentary democracy and a common
educational system. Except for The Bahamas, these countries are joined by a regional union
and a common market (CARICOM). Their total population is about 5.7 million, ranging
from 2 million in Jamaica to 41,000 in St. Kitts and Nevis. All Commonwealth Caribbean
countries are members of IBRD/IDA, although, on the grounds of relatively higli per capita
incomes or creditworthiness, some of them are now being graduated from lending by IBRD,
IDA or both.}' The proposed lending to CDB would assist primari!y eligible countries,
which at this time are, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitty and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, Belize, Jamaica, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, and U.K. dependencies.
Bank financing would be IDA/IBRD blend (with IBRD portion not less than 50%) for
Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and would be limited to
IBRD financing for St. Kitts and Nevis, Belize, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and U.K.
dependencies. Guyana would be eligible for IDA lending only. In the case of Antigua and
Barbuda, implementation of sound economic policies would be required prior to any Bank
lending. Outlined in the following paragraphs are country/sector issues, which are relevant
1/   In this report, the term "Bank" normally refers to IBRD and IDA, unless otherwise noted.
2/   These twelve countries are The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago and
the six small island countries of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and
St. Vincent and the Grenadines. They (and the U.K. dependency of Montserrat) belong to the Organization of
the Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), an economic union. Other U.K. dependencies also served by CDB are
Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos Islands.
3/   The Bank Group lending strategy for the OECS countries is contained in the Board document titled
"Terms of Lending to Small Island Economies Graduating from IDA", dated November 18, 1985, as extended
through the periods covered by the IDA-9 and IDA-10 replenishments. The five OECS countries (excluding
Antigua and Barbuda) were above the IDA cut-off point, yet not fully creditworthy for IBRD lending. To avoid
abrupt cessation of Bank funds, these countries were allowed a transition period for moving out of IDA lending,
with the condition that over time, as the standards of living and creditworthiness improves, the countries would
be graduated for IBRD financing. During this transition period (which extended until the end of the IDA-10),
based on country creditworthiness assessments, IDA funds were allowed to be blended with IBRD resources.



for most Commonwealtlh Cai bbean countries, in(d a description of the institutiolnal
framework.
3.         Country/Sector Backgroulii. Thlie Commonwealth Caribbean countries,
classified as either lower or upper middle-iincome countries according to the 1993 World
Bank Atlas, have small open economiiies, highly vulnerable to rapid changes in the external
environment. Traditionally, most of them have been depenident primarily oln a single export
commodity -- bananas in Dominica, St. Lucia and St. Vincenl and the Grenaditnes, nutmeg in
Grenada, sugar in Belize and St. Kitts and Nevis, and petroleum in Trinidad and T obago.
More recently, however, they have diversifiedl their economies in varying degrees. The
region's economic performance during thc piist (ecadec lhs becn satisfactory as a wholc,
subject to significant country variations. High per capita inflows of official capital helped
cushion the impact of external shocks and internal adjustmeint policies. With improved
economic management, per capita incoimies increased in many countries. Social indicators
have, on the whole, improvew over time. Environmental awareness remained high.
4.          In the decade of the 1980s. the OECS countries and Belize experienced average
growth rates of about 6% per year as they successfully adjusted to the changing external
environment. This record was among the best in Latin America and the Caribbean. Human
resource developmenw and increases in private investment were significant contributcry
facto:-s to growth. Growth was also enhanced by sound economic management, and
supported by the successful development of a highly competitive tourist industry, expansion
of export markets for traditional products, and increased official external assistance. By
contrast, Jamaica achieved moderate growth, while Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana
recorded negative growth rates during the same period owing to inadequate domestic policy
responses.
5.          After this impressive performance in the 1980s, economic growth in the OECS
countries and Belize slowed down to about 3% per year during 1990-93. Jamaica registered
moderate growth while Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana stagnated. The changing external
environment, including economic slowdown in the OECD countries 1990-92), lower oil
prices (adversely affecting Trinidad and Tobago), and the continuing sharp reduction in aid
inflows, has significantly contributed to the slowdown. In most Commllonwealth Caribbean
countries, the services sector, particularly tourism, has emerged as the most dynamic sector
in the 1990s. Tourism-related construction has also provided some impetus to growth.
Activity in manufacturing has been rather sluggish, while agriculture has encountered serious
difficulty. Since 1993, the incomes of banana farmers have been declining rapidly,
particularly in St. Lucia, St. Vincenit and the Grenadines, and Dominica.
6.          Fiscal management in St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines has been
good in recent years. The Governments of Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Belize, Grenada,
St. Kitts and Nevis and Dominica, in varying degrees, have also shown improvement in their
fiscal perforimances. Expenditure containment and privatization of public entities has
progressed. Fiscal situation in Antigua and Barbuda continued to deteriorate owing to
inadequate fiscal management. Guyana and J..mnaica have had high e.ternal debt to GDP



-  -
ratios, while in St. Kilts and Nevis, Anitignia and Barbuda. Dominica and Grenada the stock
of domestic debt increased. As part of the publijc sector domiiestic debt in the lattcr countries
has also been contracted in UJS dollar terml.s, this haS inpl)]ications IrI their external balance-
of-payments.
7.         'The incidence of poverty in tthc Commonwealth Caribbean has beenl less than
that zlsewhere in Latin America mainly becauise of the tra(litionally high priority assigned by
the Caribbean governmnents to the eliminationi of poverty. Remittances from expatriates have
also had a significant im1pact in averting deprivation. Only pockets of poverty are now
found. Major constraints to the elimination of thi.s poverty are: (i) inadequate land titling to
small farmers; (ii) high ulnemploymiient rates (averaging hetween 20-30`),,) (iii) declining
levels of educational attainment; and (iv) increase in the breakdown of family units. Reports
by the Bank, the UNDP and ECLAC suggest an improvement in humiian resource
dc,elopment in the Caribbean over the last decade. Access to health services, safe water,
and sanitation is near to 100%. Indicators on life expectanicy, infant mortality, malnutrition,
and fertility compare favorably to those in middle-income countries elsewhere. Public health
and education services, strongly supported by donor assistance, free social services, some
low-income housing and social programs have significantly enhlanced the standard of living in
the Caribbean. The Commonwealth Caribbean countries have long tolerated high rates of
unemployment, which is attributed to thie tradition of extended family systems, inadequate
skills development, assured flow of remittances from relatives abroad, and the adequacy of
social safety nets. Inadequate child care facilities contribute to female unemployment.
Recent indications are that women are better educated than men and progress is being made
in integrating women into positions of authority.
8.          The Commonwealth Caribbean countries have a rich and diverse natural
resource base. However, their terrestrial and marine environments are under increasing
pressure from rapid economic development. To protect their environment, the governments
have identified waste management, land-use management, and coastal zone management as
priority concerns. Issues such as the legal framework, environmental standards,
enforcement, cost recovery, and institutional strengthening are being addressed throughout
the region.
9.          The Caribbean region is now facing serious external challenges. Its preferential
market access will be increasingly eroded by the implementation of NAFTA, revised
European Union (EIJ) policies on bananas, and completion of the Uruguay Round of GA17.
With the introduction of a new banana regime in the EU in July 1993, banana producers in
the OECS countries are facing price and quantitv restrictions which will be effefctive over the
next few years; this may be followed by elimination of quotas in he EU market. Sugar
prices may decline during the remaining part of the 1990s. Thus, high-cost Caribbean
producers of bananas and sugar may find it difficult to su: ive in the face of global
competition. Rapid decline in official capital inflows may also hit tlhe Caribbean economies
rather severely. Hence, the Caribbean countries have to adapt their economies to this
rapidly- changing world environment. Additional safety nets to protect the most vulnerable



- 4 -
groups and policy reforms to ensuire 3-4% econo1iiic growth per year over the medium term
will be needed.
10.        To adjust their econot ies to the changing world economy, the Commllotnwealth
Caribbean governments will need to give high priority to rapid diversification into tourism
and other export services. A series of reformiis will: (i) move the counitries towards closer
economic cooperation; (ii) ensure stability in public finances through a restructuring of the
states' role; (ii) improve the enabling environment to foster private sector led economic
development; (iii) re-orient basic education system to adopt the new technology-based mode
of production; and (iv) protect the environment. T hese reforms have to be supported by
investments in economic aiid social infrastrUctUre.
11.        In this context, the Bank's assistance strategy incoiporates: (i) a regional focus
(e.g. trade liberalization, capital and labor mobility, education reforms, environmental action,
private sector development, agricultural diversification); and (ii) accompanying country-
specific assistance programs and strategies. A three-pronged approach by the Bank has
evolved over the years. First, tlhrough its country economic and sector work (ESW), the
Bank (in collaboration with the IMF and the CDB), has been assisting the Caribbean
governments in strengthening their institutional capacity to formulate and implement priority
policies and programs. During FY93-FY94, these joint efforts led to the preparation of
Medium Term Economic Strategy Papers (MTESPs, except for Antigua and Barbuda),
regional reports and National Environmental Action Plans (NEAPs). Second, the Bank is
assisting CDB to increase and diversify its capacity to undertake ESW and lending. Third,
the Bank is involved in donor aid coordination, through the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development (COCED), aimed at mobilization and coordination of aid to the
Caribbean. The proposed project is consistent with ihe Bank's strategy and will be an
important step in the attainment of the above mentioneJ objectives.
12.        Institutional Framework. CDB was set up in 1970 by 16 founding
Commonwealth Caribbean governments (including the U.K. dependent territories) as regional
members, Canada and the United Kingdom as n3n-regional members, and with the financial
assistance of the USA, a nonmember. Venezuela joined CDB in 1973, Colombia in 1974,
Mexico and Anguilla in 1982, France in 1984, Italy in 1988, and the Federal Republic of
Germany in 1989. CDB's Charter provides that the regional members must hold not less
than 60% of its shares. CDB's task is to promote economic development and integration in
the Commonwealth Caribbean with special emphasis on the needs of the Less Developed
Countries (LDCs) in the region. The LDCs have traditionally consisted of Antigua and
Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, Belize, Montserrat and other UK dependencies. The first six countries noted
above and Montserrat are members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS).
To fulfill its task, CDB assists its regional members in formulating their development
programs, provides technical assistance and finances their projects and programs. CDB is
required by its charter to be guided by sound development banking principles.



- 5 -
13.        CDB, with substantial assistance since its inception from bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies (including the Bank), has developed into an impc(tant regional
developmen-it finance institution. Its cumulative loan approvals through the end Jf 1993
reached US$1.1 billion, covering national and regional projects in such sectors as transport.
public utilities, housing, industry, tourism, agriculture, and financial intermediaries (Fls).
CDB has a strong, well-knit management team and generally competent professional staff,
supplemented by donor-financed special experts and consultants. It is in the process of
upgrading office technology and enhancing the quality of staff. CDB has recently
reorganized its Projects Department to strengthen its capacity for lending for human resource
development and poverty reduction. It plans to add a modest number of professional staff, to
deal with new areas of emphasis in lending and to strengtlhen supervision of a growing
portfolio of projects. CDB's operating policies and procedures, by and large, are similar to
the Bank's.
14.        CDB's financial position remains sound and its financial performance is
satisfactory. CDB obtained a "triple A" credit rating status and raised US$30 million in the
international capital market in 1992. Its Ordinary Capital Resource (OCR) loan portfolio of
US$188 million at the end of 1993 remains sound, with only 4.2% of this amount being in
"non-performing" status. Aware of CDB's experienlce in the late 1980s with large arrears by
one of its major borrowing members and the limited diversification of its loan portfolio in
comparison with larger multilateral development banks, CDB management pursues fairly
conservative financial policies. To facilitate future resource mobilization in the international
capital markets, CDB management is establishing new financial targets. CDB management,
concerned abou. ,he slow pace of loan disbursements and to improve CDB's portfolio
management, has recently established a task force with responsibility for recommending
changes in CDB's policies and procedures to speed disbursements, to maintain portfolio
quality and to develop a project monitoring system.
15.        The Bank Group has been associated with CDB since its inception, providing
technical assistance ard loans/credits for five projects. Each operation, in addition to
resource transfer, attempted to support CDB's efforts to upgrade its operating policies and
standards, improve its procedures, and strengthen its institutional capacity. The first three
operations were of the line-of-credit type, designed to finance subprojects which were too
small to warrant direct Bank/IDA involvement. Under the first two, the Bank helped CDB
prepare sectoral policy papers and technical requirements, and strengthen broad institutional
capacity. Under the third, IDA assisted in reviewing and refining CDB's financial policies
on interest rates, liquidity, capital structure, etc, and during implementation of the project,
provided CDB with assistance in dealing with its arrears problem. Under the fourth
operation referred to as "CDB IV" (the OECS regional technical education project), CDB
acted as financial conduit for IDA, the executing agency and a co-financier. During
preparation of CDB IV, the Bank assisted CDB in refining/strengthening its loan
administration and financial/accounting policies. The fifth operation (an ongoing line-of-
credit, referred to as "CDB V") was designed to enhance the amount and scope of financial
services offered to common Bank/CDB member states in t'..e Commonwealth Caribbean by
an appropriate division of labor between the Bank and CDB, under a broadly-based



- 6 
collaborative arrangeiiient sct oLIt in a 199() Memorandumnl of' Understanding (MotJ). hi
addition, as groundwork for closer collaboration in project lending, ('l)t form-iulatcd, with
inputs from the Banik, new nlcdiumi -te-rm strategies covering major se-clors andi indirect
lending through Hs.
Project Objectives
16.        The proposed "CD13 VI" project, woulld seek to: (a) clhannlel, at a lower cost
than the Bank couild do directly, the proposed IBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible lBank/cr)B
member countries in the Commonwealth Caribbean, con-sistent witth the agreed sector lending
strategies; (b) enhiance the amouniit and scope of development and financial services ofiered to
common BanklCDB borrowing memiiber countries (BlMCs) in the Commonwealth (Caribbean
through better work sharing between the Bankll and CIDBi under the collaborative program;
and (c) help CDB implemenit the agreed sectoral and institutional strategies, incluLding its
proposed strategy to expand its lending to the private sector through Fis and for humllan
resource development, and to strengthen its institutional capabilities to undertake effective
portfolio management and its economic and sector work, providing advice on appropriate
sectoral strategy and policies for OECS economic development, within the framework for
closer collaboration between the Bank and CDB.
Project Descriptioni
17.        The proposed project would provide a US$20 million equivalent IBRD loan and
an SDR 7.8 million IDA credit to CDB, in suDport of its lendinig operations in its member
countries eligible to borrow from IBRD anid IDA, respectively. The Bank would inform
CDB from time to time of such eligible countries. The IDA credit and Bank loan proceeds
would be re-lent by CD'3 in support of private as well as public sector projects of the type
which the Bank/IDA normally finanices, and would be available for lending for investment
and permanent working capital or for technical assistance. The eligible sectors would be
those sectors for which CDB has a lending strategy acceptable to the Bank. These sectors at
present include: agriculture, industry, tourism, infrastructure (transportation, water and
sewerage, and power), human resource development (HRD) and lending to Fls for onlending
to the private sector. In consultatiotn between the Bank and CDB, new sectors may be
added, or any of the existing sectors may be deleted. The total cost of the proposed project
is estimated at US$68 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$55 million
(80.8%).
18.        To meet their institutional objectives, the Bank and CDB would jointly review,
at least annually, their respective economic and sector work and lending programs in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, including projects to be financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed lending. In the context of the MOU, they would agree on collaboration in lending
as well as country economic evaluations, aid coordination and technical assistance activities
(including assistance to the OECS countries in structural adaptation). During such reviews,
attention would also be given to: (a) CDB's manpower/staff training needs to fulfill its role
under the collaborative program and the proposed project; (b) ways of further collaboration



- 7 -
to support CDB's initiative to expand its lending to the private sector through FIs and for
HRD; and (c) ways to further strengthen CDB's financial policies and management.
Project Implementation
19.       Onlending Arrangements. All IBRD/CDB member countries in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, which are creditworthy and would have not graduated from IBRD
lending, would be eligible to borrow IBRD funds. The CDB relending to OECS countries
would be on the basis of a blend of IBRD/IDA funds (with IBRD portion not less than 50%
for every national and regional project). Guyana would benefit from CDB relending of
unblended IDA credit proceeds. Within the framework of its lending strategy, CDB's
selection of subprojects would be in accordance with criteria set out in its Policies and
Procedural Manual, particularly concerning the minimum economic and financial rate of
return of 12%. CDB's relending interest rate for the proceeds of ttne IBRD loan would be
CDB's standard variable rate, which is currently 7.5%. This rate would be adjusted annually
to achieve CDB's financial targets. A standing guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from the
corresponding IBRD member country would be recsuired for disbursement in respect of the
IBRD-financed CDB subloans in each eligible country. CDB would assign to IDA its rights
under subloan contracts made with subborrowers for relending of IDA resources. In effect,
this approach would be equivalent to a direct IDA credit to the country receiving it. CDB's
liabilities in respect of the credit would be limited to amounts paid to CDB by its
subborrowers in respect of subloans. To cover CDB's estimated costs in relending the
proposed IDA credit on IDA terms, IDA would pay to CDB a fee totalling US$385,000, in
five equal annual installments. The borrowing governments mav onlend IDA resources to
subborrowers but only on commercial terms so that the benefit of IDA conce .:..onary terms
would accrue to the governments. The amortization of the IBRD subloans would be
determined by CDB on project grounds. CDB would relend proceeds of the IDA credit with
maturities not exceeding 35 years to the eligible OECS countries and with maturities not
exceeding 40 years to Guyana. Given the time required for CDB to appraise subprojects and
to enter into the required agreements including country guarantees required by IBRD,
IBRD's and IDA's charging of commitment fees would be delayed until each subproject is
authorized by IBRD/IDA for disbursements. Except as IBRD/IDA shall otherwise agree,
CDB will not use more than 35% of the proceeds of the proposed Loan and the Credit
(separately) in any one of its member countries. To secure a blending of at least 50% IBRD
funds in the OECS countries eligible for receiving a blend of IBRD/IDA funds, at least
US$7.15 million of the proposed IBRD loan would be reserved for eligible OECS
subborrowers.
20.        Subproject Review. CDB would send to the Bank for review and comments an
appraisal report on all subprojects to be financed out of the proposed Loan and the Credit.
CDB would undertake environmental impact assessments of subprojects in accordance with
its guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank. An Implementation Plan for the proposed project
has been agreed with CDB. The Bank would review subproject proposals to ensure that they
are consistent with the agreed CDB sector strategies and lending policies. As provided under
the MOU, the Bank would review jointly with CDB relevant work programs. Also, on the



- 8 -
basis of periodic reports provided by CDB and through supervisioni missions, the Bank would
review progress on project implementation, including performancee indicators.
Project Sustainability
21.        The proposed project has been designed to ensure the institutional sustainability
of CDB as an important regional development agerncy and as a Bank partner to enable the
Bank to utilize its resources in the Commonwealth Caribbean with maximum developmental
impact. The Bank would review jointly with CDB, as provided under the MOU and the
agreed Project Implementation Plan, at least annually each other's work programs related to
country economiic and sector work, lending programs, technical assistance, and CDB's
institutional development needs. The Bank would also monitor project implementation, on
the basis of CDB's subproject appraisal reports, periodic reports provided by CDB and
t.hrough Bank supervision visits.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
22.        Overall, the Bank's experience with CDB as borrower and co-financier has been
satisfactory. A 1986 PPAR on the first Bank loan to CDB (Report No. 6306) pointed out the
desirability of a better focused institution-building effort by the Bank. A 1991 PCR on the
second CDB project (Report No. 9741) has underlined the value of closer collaboration
between the Bank and CDB staff at all levels through frequent contacts, mostly on an
informal basis, in order to increase the effectiveness of both institutions' development and
financial services, to avoid duplication, and to better serve common member states in the
Commonwealth Caribbean. The PCR pointed out the need for CDB to put more emphasis
during appraisal on the institutional capacity of project executing agencies. It was also noted
that CDB woild need to strengthen its capabilities to provide its borrowing member countries
with macro-economic analysis and policy advice. A 1993 PCR on the third CDB project has
emphasized that it would be desifable for CDB to prepare comprehensive portfolio review
reports, at least once every year, to help CDB implement effectively its plans for monitoring
and improving the quality of its portfolio. The last two CDB projects are still being
implemented.
23.        The results of the 1990 Bank/CDB collaborative program were reviewed at two
meetings between the Bank and the CDB staff in September 1992 and March 1993. Both
institutions expressed general satisfaction with the results of the effort. It was also agreed
that the process needed to be strengthened to provide for greater interchange of ideas
between the two institutions. Specific changes to achieve this objective and to identify the
role of CDB more clearly in economic and sector work have been reflected in a revised
MOU. The collaborative program will henceforth focus on further solidifying the strategic
alliance between CDB and the Bank, so that the comparative advantage of each will fully
come into play, and CDB will continue to strengthen its capability for economic and sector
work. With due regard to the lessons learned under the three completed CDB projects noted
in the preceding paragraph and to the considerable maturing CDB has so far achieved in
technical aspects of project evaluation, preparation of the proposed operation has focussed on



- 9 -
the development of more explicit institutional strategies. In particular, CDB is undertaking:
(a) a full review of its poitfolio management practices and measures to ensure effective
project implementation; (b) a comprehensive review ald revision of its financial policies; and
(c) a strategy for expandin,-' its lending to the private sector inrough Fls and making efforts
towards expansion of its lending for human resource development, while maintaining the
focus on lending for infrastructure development. The Bank would continue to help CDB
strengthen its economic and sector work capabilities. Attention would be given to CDB's
appraisal of the institutional capabilities of subproject executing agencies, on which it has
recently made a sustained effort. The implementation plan for the proposed project specifies,
among other things, the timetable for CDB's preparation of cotnprehensive portfolio review
reports, at least once every year.
24.        During preparation of the CDB VI, the Bank helped CDB update/revise its
sector strategies. Under revised strategy for lending through Fls, specific criteria have been
set on Fl's eligibility; this should provide a sound framework to expand CDB's lending to
the private sector. CDB has also revised, with the Bank's help, its lending strategies for
infrastructure sector, to fostef privatization and increase private sector role in managing
public infrastructure and services. In agriculture, the revised strategies reflect the changing
environment, particularly the phase-out of preferential trading arrangements for bananas and
sugar. The Bank and CDB N.ould continue to review and exchange views on ways of helping
the banana producing OECS countries adapt to the new opportunities for structural change
presented bb phasing out of preferential trade arrangements and reduced concessionary aid
flows. CDB has also refined its strategies for industry and tourism sectors. It has recently
established a "Small-scale Enterprise Development Programme (SEDP)" which involves an
allocation of US$3 million concessionary funding for credit operations and US$2 million
grant funding for technical assistance for micro- and small-scale enterprises. The Bank
would collaborate with CDB in reviewing the adequacy and operational modalities of this
program. CDB has recently adopted a human resource development (HRD) policy paper
acceptable to the Bank. On the whole, the revised sector strategies are more focussed and
explicit, and should provide a good basis for developing and monitoring CDB's capacity and
performance in implementing them.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
25.        The Bank's operations in the Commonwealth Caribbean have been designed to
to respond better and more efficiently to its member states' changing developmental needs.
Continued closer collaboration between the Bank and CDB would enable each institution to
take the lead in lending operations and other developmental work, reflecting its comparative
advantage. CDB, in general, has a comparative advantage over the Bank for less
complicated investment lending, principally because of its lower manpower costs and its
proximity to the borrowers. To the extent that CDB can take over Bank roles in project
lending and, gradually in other activities, the Bank would be able to redirect its manpower
resources within the Commonwealth Caribbean for policy advice and support of policy
reforms (where it has a clear comparative advantage over CDB) and for other developmental
work where there is no immediate alternative to the Bank. This division of responsibilities



- 10 -
offers incremental benefits to the common member states being served, while helping CDB
accelerate its institutional development, as evidenced by its recent access to capital markets
and developing/updating its lending strategies in major sectors.
Actions Agreed
26.        CDB and the Bank have agreed on: (a) project objectives and description,
eligible countries and sectors (paras. 16-17); (b) terms and conditions of CDB's onlending of
the IBRD loan and the IDA credit proceeds, and arrangements for subproject processing
(paras. 19 and 20); (c) a project implementation plan and arrangements for monitoring its
execution (para. 20); (d) commencement of IBRD's and IDA's charging of commitment fees
(para. 19); (e) compensation for CDB's administrative costs in relending the IDA credit
proceeds on IDA terms (para. 19); and (f) not having CDB's Charter, "Operational Policies
and Procedures Manual" and "OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" changed in
a manner that would materially and adversely affect CDB's operations or financial condition.
Conditions for effectiveness of Loan and Credit agreements include: (i) CDB's adoption of
revised Guidelines on environmental assessment acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) CDB's
issuance of standard bidding documents, acceptaFe to the Bank, for regional or local
bidding.
Envirounental Aspects
27.        CDB, as in the case of all Commonwealth Caribbean Governments, remains
keen to promote policies to protect the region's economic base. Its record on environmental
assessment under the previous Bank financed projects has been satisfactory. Nevertheless,
CDB will revise and amplify its environmental guidelines, taking into account the Bank's
suggestions. For purposes of the proposed project, CDB would undertake environmental
impact assessments of subprojects in accordance with its revised guidelines.
Program Objective Categories
28.        The main thrust of the proposed project would be to maintain and deepen the
close collaboration between the Bank and CDB, to entrust the latter with growing role in the
attainment of the Bank's developmental objectives in the Commonwealth Caribbean,
including economic and social advancement, and poverty alleviation. While the project is not
specifically designed to make a significant contribution toward poverty alleviation,
subprojects to be supported under it would generate a considerable number of new jobs
during their implementation.
Benefits
29.        The Bank's channeling of its funds to the Commonwealth Caribbean member
states through CDB las clear advantages for all the parties concerned. Benefits for member
states would be increased access to development finance and seivices which would have been
more limited if the comparative advantages of both institutions were not brought together.



- 11 -
Because of its lower costs of operations, CDB canl make a larger nuinber of loans in the
region, whereas the lBank would foctis on fewer but strategic loans/credits, as well as policy
a(dvice and support for reforms. By lending through CDB, the Bank will have greater
country/sector coverage and econlomic impact than if it tried to make loans/credits directly.
With the Bank's support, CD1B would continue to gain strength, as a major development
institution in the Commonwealtlh Caribbean, and would progressively be able to take over
certain Bank roles in the region. T his would enabie the Bank to redirect its resources within
the Commonwealth Caribbean for maximnum developmental impact. T'he proposed project
would be instrumental for further solidifyitng strategic alliance between the Bank and CDB
for the benefit of their coinl mon wieiber states.
Risks
30.        There are four main risks. First, the weak economic base of the region and its
susceptibility to external shocks (e.g., significant changes in world commodity prices and the
reduction in preferential trade arrangements for banana and sugar) could slow the rate of
subloan commitments. CDB's subproject pipeline indicates, however, that the projected
levels of lending are likely to be achieved. Potential subprojects include projects designed to
help OECS banana growing countries diversify into alternative viable economic activities.
Seconid, signIficant changes in the macroeconomic situation of certain borrowing member
countries could adversely affect their ability to provide counterpart funds for subproject
execution. In part to help manage this risk, CDB will continue to assist the OECS countries
and Belize in their preparation of public sector investment programs, and will malke annual
reviews of its borrowing member states' public sector expenditures. Third, reduced revenues
from trade taxes could cause fiscal problems, a shortage of counterpart funds and slow
subproject execution unless adequately compensated by sound new revenue measures. The
Bank and CDB will, in their policy dialogue with member countries, provide advice on fiscal
policy to help address this risk. Fourth, the multi-year comprehensive Bank/CDB
collaborative program, which requires intensive efforts to make it work smoothly, may not
be maintained. However, based on a successful experience so far, both the Bank and CDB
expect that collaboration will continue in a smooth manner.
Recommendation
31.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan and credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1994



Schedule A
CARIBBEAN D)EVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing
(UIS$ Million)
Local    Foreign         Total
Estimated Costs
Subproject costs                                  13.0       55.0           68 °
Total project costs                            13.0       55.0          68.0
Financing Plan
CDB
of which CDB's own & borrowed resources           1.0        16.0         17.0
IBRD/IDA                                     -        31.0          31.0
CDB cofinancers                                     --        8.0           8.0
Subborrowers                                      12.0         --          12.0
13.0       55.0          68.0



Schedule B3
CARIBBEAN DEVill0PM 1N I113ANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN D)EVELPMI E.NT 13ANK PROJI fYf
Procurement Method and Disbuirseinieicts
Procurement Metlod
(US$ Million)
Procuremiienit Method         Total Cost
Project element                 IC13       L(,l3        Otlier
Subproject financing             6.0        40.0         22.0          68.0
3.0.      (18.0            1)         31.0_
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA/IBRD.
Disbursements
Category                                           %
Subproject financing:
(a) For subprojects in Belize, OECS
countries, Jamaica and Guyana     Up to 80% (of subproject cost)
(b) For subprojects in Trinidad and Tobago  Up to 70% (of subproject cost)
Estimated IBRD/IDA Disbursements
(LUS$ Million)
Fiscal Year
96      97      98      99      00       01        02
Annual          0.5     1.6     3.4    8.0      11.5      4.2       1.8
Cumulative      0.5     2.1     5.5   13.5    25.0       29.2     31.0



$Ch(hwllle C
CARIBBEAN DEVELVI.OPMENTr BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVEI OPMENT BAN K PROJ I_ 
Tihetable of l  Projt Process ngv Eyent
(a)    Time taken to prepare:          '/ i-ontis
(b)   Prepared by:                      ()1B/ 1I3J\/IT)/A
(c)    First IBRD/IDA mission:          June 1993
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:      November/Decemnber 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                    March 1994
(f    Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 1994
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs: First CDB Project (PPAR No. 6306)
Second CDB Project (Report No. 9741)
Third CDB Project



Schedule D
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Statement of IBRD/IDA Loans/Credits and IFC Investments to CDB
A. Statement of IBRD and Third Window Loans, and IDA Credits
as of March 31. 1994
Loan or                                                  US$ million amount
Credit        Fiscal                                     (less cancellations,)
No.           Year    Borrower   Purpose    IBRD   TW a/   IDA   Undisbursed
3 loans and 2
credits fully
disbursed and
PCR
prepared                           Relending   35.2   3.0       14.1
1785          1987     CDB         Regional
Technical
Education  --      --        6.8       0.6
3200          1990    CDB          Relending   20.0    --       --        18.2
2135          1990    CDB          Relending    -               12.8      11.5
Total                           55.2   3.0       33.7      30.3
Of which has been repaid      22.4   1.6        0.3
Total now held by IBRD/IDA      32.8   1.4       33.4
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31. 1994
None
a. Third window.



IBBRD 10611H3
THE CARIBBEAN AREA
Organization  of Eastern Caribbean States Members (OECS)
Caribbean Development Bank Members
-     International  Boundaries
100  50   0        100      2I C      300       : 0
C                                                                                                 100   0    100  200   300  400  500   60C
U                                                                                                         KIIOMtTERS
8
20"                                                                                                           -
H1AI5II DOMINICAN____
/   }-                                                                                      . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLiC 
/r            f                                                                                                                                                               T tU 1 ASR) T I N
/  RUPIJERIO RICO
GUADt LOUPE
GUATEMALA,,,
/   HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                                               MARTINIQUE
INICARAGUA                                                                                                       ARUBA
CURAgAO
BONAIRE
(                                                    MA`GARITA
10°                                                  C s  /Cos
C'PANAMA
CANAL
p A          M
CARIFTA/OECS DISTANCES IN AIR ROUITE MILES                            A         *                                              \,                                                                                   /
AN 16SUA      454  293  737. 6 3 35. 991 ! E91  355   3   17 49 1 370j                                                                                     \.1(-n
iL~~~~~-              -     71ilr491947'1   7 r   4 27 5 525 2  |281  T h;{Zph75 W.11dr Ba r  7Wrr be-g IY                                                                                                                                     X
RENAA1 71      ' 1                                    ,,0!,7 5
22.  22 . .  .. .587       ....  ... 17501           to, the0 -0 b   f the    b
3 5            _J                                  -e..r enoornd . 000   t                                                                   j
0MAINICA     34 179   97       S 176  1521ISS   1   2135            oe-     TO O-  fO.  /h T  f    Bnk
_1A          LIU 7-14.202  os; 391 1375  466                          OrOOl Wfi790W000800
~GR-                                                                Ofed th. I0I0fl.0000 F-0,81
SGT. KI T TS    517  351 5 . 7i 9j0r 7nyerr0 or any                                                                                                                      '\' AB   R   A    Z    I   l
- -   - --- -- -           _ndorse_nOd t or d                      ccoH. once oh                                                                       5;'    ;                                                   L
ST, AACIA   1431131089    5    8,O t4h.. bndan  rt ,Y On Me
330  31.'                              01100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en ww 000-000                                                      I.I"L
ST.   LINCEIA  277'                                                                 EO --b                                                                                        ___-                                     1.
APRIL 1987



