Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12775-CRG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPHENT BANK (CDB)
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1994
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS'
US$1.00       - BDS$2.00 (Barbados)
- BZ$2.00 (Belize)
- EG$2.70 (Eastern Caribbean)2
- G$130.75 (Guyana)
- J$31.83 (Jamaica)
- TT$5.81 (Trinidad and Tobago)
- B$1.00 (The Bahamas)
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BMCs          -      Borrowing Member Countries
CARICOM       -      Caribbean Community
CARIFTA       -      Caribbean Free Trade Association
CBI           -      Caribbean Basin Initiative
CDB           -      Caribbean Development Bank
CDF           -      Caribbean Development Facility
CGCED         -      Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CIDA          -      Canadian International Development Agency
CPO           -      Chief Project Officer
DFCs          -      Development Finance Companies
EEC           -      European Economic Community
ECCM          -      East Caribbean Common Market
FIs           -      Financial Institutions
FRG           -      Federal Republic of Germany
GCI           -      General Capital Increase
HRD           -      Human Resource Development
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
LDCs          -      Less Developed Countries
MDB           -      Multilateral Development Bank
MDCs          -      More Developed Countries
MOU           -      Memorandum of Understanding
NAFTA         -      North America Free Trade Agreement
OCR           -      Ordinary Capital Resources
OECD          -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OECS          -      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PSIP          -      Public Sector Investment Program
SFR           -      Special Fund Resources
UK            -      United Kingdom
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
USAID         -      US Agency for International Development
VTF           -      Venezuelan Trust Fund
1. As of December 1993
2. Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, and Montserrat.



CARIBBEAN DEVhELPMENT BANK                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIXTvH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
LOAN/REDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ........................  t-v
I.  THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN - DEVELOPMENT ISSUES . I
A. Background  .....................  1
B. Recent Economic Developments .................. ... 2
C. The Prospects .....................  3
D. Economic Sectors  .........             ............... 4
II.  THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN AMD
COLLABORATION WEI CDB .               .................              6
A. IBRD/IDA Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean .....       ......... 6
B. Future Bank Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean-
Opportunities and Constraints ..........     ................ 7
C. The CDB Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean  .....       ......... 8
D. Strategic Alliance Between, the Bank and CDB .....    ........... 9
E. Experience with Past IBRD/IDA Lending to CDB
and Lessons Learned ................................. 9
F. Closer Collaboration between the Bank and CDB-The
Memorandum of Understanding ........        ................ 13
Ill.   THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB) ........                  ... 15
A. Constitution and Objectives     ..........................  15
B. CDB's Board, Management, Organization and Staffing ........  .. 15
C. Operational Policies and Procedures ......... ............ 17
D. Past Lending Operations ............ ................ 20
E. Lending Strategies ................................ 26
(a) Infrastructure ........   .............  ........... 26
(b) Agriculture ................................   28
(c) Industry and Tourism ............................ 29
(d) Financial Intermediaries . ......................... 29
(e) Human Resources Development .........      ............. 31
(f) Overall Assessment of CDB's Lending Strategies .... ....... 32
F. Lending Program for 1994-98 .........  ... .                     32
G. Financial Position and Performance    ..               ...... 34
H. Projected Financial Position and Performance   .   .38
IV. THE PROJIECT   .                           .39
A. Evolution of Bank's Institutional Development Strategy for CDB
and Lessons Applied .39
B. Project Objectives .40
C. Project Description .40
D. Project Cost and Financing .41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited CDB in
November/December 1993. The mission consisted of Messrs. Joon-Bo Shim
(Task Manager, LA3TF) and Howard Jones (Consultant, LA3TF). Mr. John
Daniel Pollner (PBDPS), who participated in a preparation mission in
May/June 1993, also contributed to the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of eir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
E. Project Implementation  .............             ................ 42
(a) Implementation Plan, Indicators and Monitoring  ....      ....... 42
(b) IBRD Loan Features  ..........           .................. 42
(c) The IDA Credit Features .........          ................. 43
(d) Subprojects/Subloans ..........          .................. 44
(e) Disbursements ................................. 44
(f) Procurement ........................  ....  ....                  .  45
(g) Environmental Assessments ........... .         .. .  .. .  .. .  .  .    . 46
F. Poverty Alleviation  ........ .          ..................... . 47
G. Benefits and Risks  ........ .          ....................... 47
V.     AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ... .......... .                          .    . 48
A. Agreements Reached .....   .......................... . 48
B. Recommendation  .........................  ....  ...                    . 49
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1    Summary of Annual Loan Approvals by Source of Funds, 1989-93  ....           ..... 21
3.2    CDB Loan Approvals by Sector, 1970-93  ........             ................. 22
3.3    CDB's Lending to Infrastructure, 1970-93 ........           ................. 23
3.4    CDB's Lending to the Agricultural Sector, 1970-93 ......          ............. 24
3.5    CDB's Lending to Industry and Tourism, 1970-93 ......            .............. 24
3.6    CDB's Projected Lending Programs, 1994-98 .......             ................ 33
3.7    Arrears Position as of December 31, 1993 ........           ................. 36
3.8  CDB-Projected OCR Financial Indicators .38
4.1  Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .41
4.2  Proposed Procurement Arrangements.                                                   45
ANEXES
I.   Basic Indicators for Selected CARICOM  Countries
11.   Memorandum of Understanding between Bank/lDA and CDB
III.   CDB's Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
IV.  CDB Past Operations
Table 1:   Distribution of Loans Approved (Net) by Sector and by Source of Funds
(1970-93)
Table 2:   Characteristics of Subloans made under the First, Second and
Third Operations
V.  CDB-Historical Financial Statements
Table 1:   Summarized Balance Sheets, 1989-93
Table 2:   Summarized Statements of Income, 1989-93
VI.  CDB-Statements of Resource Position as of December 31, 1993
Table 1:   Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Table 2:   Special Fund Resources (SFR)
VU.  CDB-Financial Projections (1994-1998)
Table 1:   OCR, Projected Income Statements, 1994-98
Table 2:   OCR, Projected Balance Statements, 1994-98
Table 3:   OCR, Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1994-98
Vm.  Assumptions used in Financial Projections
IX.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan and Credit
X.  Project Implementation Plan
XI.  Pipeline of IBRD and IDA Projects for 1994-96
XII.  Project File
XIII.  Organization Chart-Caribbean Development Bank
MAP  IBRD 10611R3



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROTECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
Guarantors:        CDB borrowing member countries and the UK (as guarantor for the UK
Dependencies)'
Beneficiaries:     Public and private entities and enterprises in CDB member countries eligible
for receiving Bank/IDA funds.
Amount:            US$20.0 million equivalent IBRD loan and SDR 7.8 million (US$1 1.0 million)
IDA credit
Terms:             IBRD loan to CDB-fixed amortization schedule: 17
years including a grace period of 5 years at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. IDA credit to
CDB-standard, with 40 year maturity (see (ii) below).
Onlendine Terms:
(i)    The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be relent by CDB for subprojects in its
member countries which are creditworthy and would not have graduated from
IBRD lending. The onlending interest rate would be CDB's standard variable
rate adjusted annually. This rate is currently 7.5%. The amortization of the
subloans would be determined by CDB on project grounds.
(ii)   The proceeds of the IDA credit, blended with IBRD funds, would be
relent for subprojects in OECS countries which have sound economic
policies, or would have agreed to adopt adjustment programs
acceptable to IBRD/IDA and CDB, and would have not fully attained
creditworthiness for exclusive IBRD lending. Financing would be
IBRD/IDA blend, with IBRD portion not less than 50%. CDB would
relend proceeds of the credit to the OECS governments with maturities
not exceeding 35 years and to Guyana with maturities not exceeding
40 years. The borrowing governments would onlend IDA resources
to subborrowers on commercial terms so that the benefit of IDA
concessionary terms would accrue to the governments. For both the
IBRD loan and the IDA credit, the foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the CDB's borrowers.
Project Objectives:   The project would seek to: (a) channel, at a lower cost than the Bank could do
directly, the proposed IBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible Bank/CDB member
countries in the Commonwealth Caribbean, consistent with the agreed sector
lending strategies; (b) enhance the amount and scope of development and
financial services offered to commnon Bank/CDB borrowing member countries
1. Subject to confirmation by the UK and eligible dependent territories.



- ii -
in the Commonwealth Caribbean through better work sharing between the
Bank and CDB under the collaborative program; and (c) help CDB implement
the agreed sectoral and institutional strategies, including its proposed strategy
to expand its lending to the private sector through financial intermediaries and
for human resource development, and to strengthen its institutional capabilities
to undertake effective portfolio management and its economic and sector
work, providing advice on appropriate sectoral strategies and policies for
OECS economic development, within the framework for closer collaboration
between the Bank and CDB.
Project Description:  The proposed project would provide US$20 million equivalent IBRD loan and
SDR 7.8 million IDA credit to CDB in support of its lending operations in its
member countries eligible to borrow from IBRD and IDA, respectively. The
IDA credit and IBRD loan proceeds would be relent by CDB in support of
private as well as public sector projects of the type which the Bank/IDA
normally finance, and would be available for lending for investment and
permanent working capital or for technical assistance. The eligible sectors
would be those sectors on which CDB has issued lending strategy papers
acceptable to the Bank. These sectors include: agriculture, industry, tourism,
infrastructure (transportation, water and sewerage, and power), indirect
lending through other financial institutions for onlending to the private sector,
and human resource development. In consultation between the Bank and
CDB, new sectors may be added, or any of the existing sectors may be
deleted. In accordance with the updated Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU), the Bank and the CDB would jointly review, at least annually, their
respective economic and sector work, and lending programs including projects
to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed lending, and agree on ways
of collaboration in lending as well as country economic evaluation, aid
coordination and technical assistance activities (including assistance for the
OECS banana producing countries). During such reviews, attention would
also be given to CDB's manpower/staff training needs to fulfill its role under
the collaborative program and the proposed project, and to ways of further
collaboration to support CDB's initiative to expand its lending to the private
sector and to strengthen its financial policy and management.
P'roject Benlefits:  The Bank's channeling of its funds to the Commonwealth Caribbean member
states through CDB has clear advantages for all the parties concerned.
Benefits for member states would be increased access to development finance
and services which would have been more limited if the comparative
advantages of both institutions were not brought together. Because of its
lower costs of operations, CDB can make a larger number of loans in the
region, whereas the Bank would focus on fewer but strategic loans/credits, as
well as policy advice and support for reforms. By lending through CDB, the
Bank will have greater country/sector coverage and economic impact than if it
tried to make loans/credits directly. With the Bank's support, CDB would
continue to gain strength, as a major development institution in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, and would progressively be able to take over
certain Bank roles in the region. This would enable the Bank to redirect its
resources within the Commonwealth Caribbean for maximum developmental
impact. The proposed project would be instrumental for further solidifying



- iii -
strategic alliance between the Bank and CDB for the benefit of their common
member states.
Project Risks:       There are four main risks. First, the weak economic base of the region and
its susceptibility to external shocks (e.g., significant changes in world
commodity prices and the reduction in preferential trade arrangements for
banana and sugar) could slow the rate of subloan commitments. CDB's
subproject pipeline indicates, however, that the projected levels of lending are
likely to be achieved. Potential subprojects include projects designed to help
OECS banana growing countries to diversify into alternative viable economic
activities. Second, significant changes in the macroeconomic situation of
certain borrowing member countries could adversely affect their ability to
provide counterpart funds for subproject execution. In part to help manage
this risk, CDB will continue to assist the OECS countries and Belize in their
preparation of public sector investment programs, and will make annual
reviews of its borrowing member states' public sector expenditures. Third,
reduced revenues from trade taxes could cause fiscal problems, a shortage of
counterpart funds and slow subproject execution unless adequately
compensated by sound new revenue measures. The Bank and CDB will, in
their policy dialogue with member countries, provide advice on fiscal policy
to help address this risk. Fourth, the multi-year comprehensive BanklCDB
collaborative program, which requires intensive efforts to make it work
smoothly, may not be maintained. However, based on a successful experience
so far, both the Bank and CDB expect that collaboration will continue in a
smooth manner.



- iv -
Estimated Project
Cost and Financing:
Local      Foreign     Total
Estimated Cos: (USS million)
Subprojectcost                               13.0       55.0         68.0
Total project costs                         13.0       55.0        63.0
Financine Plan: (USS million)
CDB:
Of which CDB's own & borrowed resources     1.0        16.0        17.0
IRD/IDA                                    -           31.0        31.0
CDB-cofinanciers                             -           8.0         8.0
Subborrowers                                 12.0                    12.0
Total                                       13.0       55.0        68.0
Estimated Disbursements
in US$ millions):
Fiscal Year
96    97      98      99       00       01      02
Annual           0.5    1.6    3.4      8.0    11.5       4.2     1.8
Cumulative       0.5    2.1    5.5    13.5    25.0    29.2    31.0



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
I. THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN - DEVELOPMENT ISSUES
A. Background
1.1    The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of 12 independent countries-Antigua and Barbuda,
The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, and Trinidad and Tobago--and five UK dependencies--Anguilla,
Cayman Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands, and the British Virgin Islands. The countries
have a total population of about 5.7 million.
1.2    Based on common interests and heritage, the Caribbean countries' have embarked upon a
number of initiatives to construct a framework of cooperation in an attempt to overcome the
handicaps of small size, economic fragmentation, and external economic dependence. An early
attempt was made at integration with the establishment of the West Indies Federation in 1958. This
experiment, however, failed. Thereafter, the idea of regional economic association was revived in the
mid-1960s and culminated in 1968 in the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade Association
(CARIFTA). Within this free trade area, islands of the Eastern Caribbean formed the East Caribbean
Common Market (ECCM). In 1970, the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) was established and in
July 1973, CARIFTA member countries decided to strengthen the integration movement still further
by forming a Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM). CARIFTA provided
member countries with an enlarged free trade market and, hence, the opportunity to capture increased
benefits of competition, specialization, and larger scale production. CARICOM, which replaced
CARIFTA, sought to deepen regional integration by measures such as the establishment of a common
external tariff, a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, and taxation agreements. It
called for coordination of national development planning, rationalization of agriculture, joint
development of regional natural resources, and cooperation in other areas including health, education,
culture, transport, and the harmonization of foreign policy. While some progress has been made in
most of these areas, much still remains to be done to attain Caribbean regional integration. In 1981,
the ECCM countries signed an agreement establishing the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
(OECS)2 with a view to achieving deeper integration of their economic, judicial, political, diplomatic
and monetary relationships. These countries use a single currency (the EC dollar) issued and
managed by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB).
1. The word 'Caribbean', as used in this report, unless otherwise noted, refers to the Commonwealth Caribbean
countries of the region.
2. The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) has as its members Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, plus Montserrat which is a UK
dependency. Together with other UK dependencies and Belize, they are referred to as the Less Developed Countries
(LDCs) in the region.



-2-
1.3    The Caribbean countries pose unique development issues for the Bank3. The area as a whole
is characterized by small open economies which are highly vulnerable to fluctuations in international
prices and demand, as well as to natural disasters, especially hurricanes. This fragility is particularly
pronounced in the case of the OECS countries, of which the largest has a land area of only 293
square miles and the most populated had only about 156,000 people in 1992. Typically, external
trade accounts for a large proportion of these islands' GDP, with exports being limited to one or two
commodities. Economic diversification and private competition in most sectors are limited by the
absence of economies of scale. Traditionally, emigration provided a safety valve for high
unemployment and social upheaval. During their colonial past, most countries depended on transfers
of resources from the United Kingdom (UK), not only for capital formation, but also for budgetary
support. With independence, UK budgetary support came to an end. Economic problems were
aggravated by difficulties due to the world recession. Substantial international assistance was made
available, mainly for infrastructure investments and reconstruction after natural disasters. The OECS
countries, which maintained high growth rates in the decade of the 1980s, needed to diversify and
restructure their economies and to develop alternative export incomes in addition to traditional staples
such as sugar and bananas. However, these countries have had limited success in achieving these
objectives, and are handicapped by fairly rapid declines in the net transfer of resources from abroad,
particularly on concessional terms.
1.4    While the economies of the More Developed Countries (MDCs) in the Caribbean, which
comprise Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Barbados and The Bahamas, are relatively larger
and more diversified than those of the OECS countries, they have not been immune to the serious
economic difficulties. Low prices and reduced demand for their major export products, due to
international recession, together with increased protectionism and high interest rates in their main
trading partners in North America and Europe, caused economic hardships and confronted the
governments with difficult debt servicing problems. Among these, Janaica encountered sharp
declines in its foreign exchange earnings, a situation aggravated by poor financial management and
high external debt service obligations. Guyana was in arrears on its external loans to most of its
creditors until a restructuring in 1990. The economic position of Trinidad and Tobago-a country
which in the past provided investment funds for the OECS--also deteriorated considerably as a result
of lower petroleum prices.
B. Recent Economic Developments
1.5    The economic performance of the Commonwealth Caribbean countries, while satisfactory as a
whole, varied in the decade of the 1980s. Many of the countries posted high rates of growth through
a rapid expansion in tourism, services, agriculture and manufacturing, partly supported by preferential
market arrangements (particularly for bananas and sugar and through the Caribbean Basin Initiative)
and favorable exchange rate movements between the US dollar and the major European currencies.
At the same time, significant financial and technical support was given by the donor community.
Lower levels of real international interest rates benefitted those economies with relatively large
outstanding commercial debt. Most of the OECS countries, Belize and The Bahamas benefitted from
the favorable economic environment. Between 1990 and 1993, however, economic growth slowed
down from about 6% per year during the 1980s to about 3% per year, due to a combination of
factors. A number of the OECS countries sustained damage to agricultural crops, tourism facilities
3. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term 'Bank' as used in this report covers IDA as well.



and infrastructure from Hurricane Hugo in September 1989, and recovery from the effects of the
hurricane was constrained by the economic slowdown, particularly in the US, the UK and Canada,
the main markets for exports and tourism. In addition, banana prices and volumes have become
uncertain as a result of slide in British Pound in late 1992 and increased competition in banana
exports following the new European Union (EU) banana regime which came into effect in July 1993.
The Government of Antigua and Barbuda has had macroeconomic (especially fiscal) problems which
need to be corrected. Grenada's fiscal position improved only in 1993. After almost ten years of
steady economic decline, Guyana began implementing an economic recovery program and, by 1991,
eliminated its arrears to multilateral donors and rescheduled its bilateral debts. Economic growth
reached 6% in real terms, the exchange rate stabilized and exports expanded by about 12.5%. In
1992, domestic inflation was reduced to about 13% p.a., compared with over 100% in 1991.
1.6   In Trinidad and Tobago, the only oil exporter in the Commonwealth Caribbean, lower export
prices for oil caused significant income and output losses, compared to the early 1980s, and
inadequate domestic policies failed to advance structural reforms to strengthen economic
diversification during the decade of the 1980s. Confronted with a major adjustment process, Jamaica
has gone through a difficult economic period, aggravated by Hurricane Gilbert in 1988. Despite
improvements achieved, the economic framework remained fragile with a large debt overhang and a
rising fiscal cost of debt service resulting from exchange rate depreciation in 1989-91. Barbados'
economic position has been weakened due to the erosion in its competitiveness.
C. The Pros=ets
1.7    Overall, it appears that development issues for the Caribbean countries in the 1990s will be
more challenging than in the past. The traditional sources of external financing for them will be
scarce. The future of the preferential trade arrangements is cloudy, particularly for bananas and
sugar. The implementation of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will erode the
preferential access of small and light manufactures to US market under the Caribbean Basin Initiative.
In light of this, the Caribbean countries have to become more efficient and achieve the
macroeconomic conditions (particularly viable fiscal balances) and improvements in the incentive
regime that will enable them to compete in the changing world environment. In the future, the
Caribbean countries will have to place greater emphasis on tourism and service-related industries
(including business, financial and information services, repair and medical activities). This would
require the upgrading of both the quality of human resources and the infrastructure for services. In
tourism, some countries have opportunities to complement beach and sea tourism with nature
tourism, provided appropriate environmental policies are put in place. In manufacturing and service
exports, wage pressures from tourism may force a shift to higher value-added activities, from apparel
manufacturing to data processing, for example. Agriculture will shrink in some countries, even
though there will be room for non-traditional crops to develop. In spite of the difficulties, new
opportunities in services are promising provided appropriate policies and programs are implemented.
1.8    The OECS countrie, in general, still require substantial development effort to become
economically viable. Despite the improvements made in recent years, there is a resource gap.
Banana production accounts for a large proportion of exports in Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and
the Grenadines and to a lesser extent in Grenada. The new EU policy is to reduce the tariff on non-
quota dollar bananas from Latin American producers thereby progressively reducing the profitability
of banana exports for the Windward Islands. In St. Kitts and Nevis, sugar is an important source of
foreign exchange and sugar prices are declining as world supply exceeds demand. While a drive to



promote export diversification has begun, these efforts need to be intensified. There is also the
possibility of a diversion of trade and investment to Mexico as a consequence of the NAFTA. The
phased reduction in the Common External Tariff for CARICOM (para. 1.12) will require new sources
of fiscal revenue for countries depending extensively on taxes on international trade for a large
portion of government revenue. External debt does not pose serious problems, except for Antigua
and Barbuda; however, borrowing on conventional terms needs close monitoring and restraint. The
deterioration in public sector savings in some countries will require close control of public
expenditures and a strengthening and consolidation of fiscal systems.
1.9    The economies of the MDCs need structural adjustment and diversification of their production
base in order to sustain an adequate growth rate over the medium term. The Caribbean governments'
medium-term strategy should be based on substantially reducing the size and scope of the public
sector, and stimulating investment and growth through the development of an efficient private sector.
They should secure further improvements in efficiency through trade policy reform, privatization and
the reform of the regulatory framework for business, creating an appropriate environment for foreign
and domestic investment.
D. Economic Sectors
1.10 The agriculture sector in the Commonwealth Caribbean is a major source of foreign
exchange, employment and income. In 1972, the region switched from an agricultural surplus to
becoming a net importer of agricultural products, with a net reduction in agricultural employment.
Nevertheless, the sector still remains a major source of employment, absorbing about 25% of the
labor force, and benefitting a significantly larger percentage of the total population, particularly in the
OECS countries. The underlying problems include inefficient methods of production, widening
disparities in earnings between agriculture and other sectors and weaknesses in infrastructure,
government support services and pricing policies. In view of the expected losses of sugar and banana
exports, the need for diversification into other products and economic activities has become
particularly urgent.
1.11   The industrial se    in the Caribbean consists mainly of light industry, except that Trinidad
and Tobago, Jamaica and Guyana have some industrial complexes devoted to the processing of
minerals. The MDCs account for over 90% of regional manufacturing. Jamaica possesses the largest
manufacturing sector, followed by Trinidad and Tobago. In Guyana, manufacturing is still minor,
accounting for about 2% of GDP. Industrial activity in the LDCs is quite limited, consisting
primarily of operations in the industrial estates.
1.12   Manufacturing in most of the Caribbean region suffers from the smallness of domestic
markets, the lack or the inadequacy of raw materials and intermediate products and an insufficient
number of experienced entrepreneurs and skilled workers. The CARIFTA and, subsequently,
CARICOM incentive schemes have not created the stimuli needed, because they were mainly designed
to encourage import substitution at the national and regional levels. These incentives resulted in the
establishment of a number of inefficient industries which generate little employment but enjoy unduly
high effective protection. The governments have realized that in the future efficient industrial
development will have to be based largely on increased exports to the rest of the world. Accordingly,
the members of CARICOM agreed in October, 1992 to gradually reduce the common external tariff
to a range of 5% (0 to 5% in the LDCs) to 20% by January 1, 1998, to reduce the bias against extra-
regional exports, and to attract investment and improve competitiveness.



- 5 -
1.13   Tourism in the Commonwealth Caribbean has been an outstanding growth sector providing
the region with an important source of employment and foreign exchange. The total number of
tourists has increased from 3.7 million in 1970 to 7.6 million in 1988 (thereafter arrivals declined to
about 7 million arrivals in 1991 due principally to the recession in North America). This growth has
been sustained by favorable economic developments in North America, the major source of the tourist
flow to the Caribbean, the development of the European tourism market, and the introduction of
discount fares on regularly scheduled flights. While future prospects for tourism growth are
favorable, the main constraints will be difficulties of air access to some islands and a shortage of
suitable accommodations. The increasing environmental degradation in the Caribbean is likely to
have a negative impact on tourism growth if it goes unchecked. Caribbean governments are now
beginning to implement measures to improve the management of their natural resources, so that they
can exploit their tourism resources on a sustainable basis.
1.14   The two fundamental problems of the Caribbean states--isolation and smallness-can only be
relieved by efficient and reliable transport systems, both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are in
need of efficient sea and air transport for developing merchandise trade and for the development of
tourism. Transportation has been identified as the most critical constraint to the successful
implementation of the agricultural diversification program. They will also need to obtain more reliable
air service if they wish to expand their share of the tourist market. Privatization of national and
regional airlines is an important issue. Maintenance of road network is being improved through
outsourcing of such services.
1.15  In public utilities, the water supply and sewerage sector has been characterized by local
institutions with weak management and inefficient administrative and operating practices. In some
cases, tariffs are low and billing and collection deficient, resulting in inadequate revenues and
increased government subsidies. There is a need for further investment in the improvement of water
supplies throughout the region to meet the needs of the local population and the tourism sector.
Water quality is also becoming a growing problem because of contamination from sewage, pesticides
and fungicides and poor waste disposal. In future, the focus of investments will need to be broadened
to cover water and sewerage, preferably under a single water and sewerage authority with a
commercial orientation and private sector participation. Waste management will be increasingly
important to support environmentally sound tourism development. There is also a need for
investments in power generation incorporating, where possible, renewable energy sources. To
provide scarce investment resources, private sector generation and transmission of power is expected
to be encouraged, either alone or in joint venture with the government. Telecommunications need to
be modernized also to support growth in service industries.
1.16   There is a diversity of financial intermediaries in the Caribbean region, including commercial
banks and national development finance institutions (DFCs). Many commercial banks operating in
the region are branches of UK and Canadian banks, but a number of the islands have their own
government owned commercial bank. All MDCs and Belize have independent central banks as do the
OECS countries (the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank). Government-owned DFCs have been
established in each of the countries, usually with financial and technical support from the CDB, to
provide long-term loans and technical assistance in the preparation/implementation of small
development projects. To date their record has been mixed due to poor management and uneconomic
size, but a number of them have become effective and profitable institutions in recent years.
Nevertheless, the CDB has been looking to lend through other financial intermediaries as well. It
now uses commercial banks through Apex institutions in Jamaica and lends directly to government



- 6 -
commercial banks in St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Montserrat. It is seeking to expand its
lending through other commercial banks and has adopted revised eligibility criteria, prepared in
consultation with the Bank, for financial intermediaries to have access to CDB funding.
1.17   The foregoing summary of macro and sectoral development issues and investment needs in the
Commonwealth Caribbean sets the basic parameters for future Bank and CDB development assistance
to the region and for their collaboration in rendering such assistance.
II. The BANK'S ROLE IN THE COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN
AND COLLABORATION WITH CDB
A. IBRD/IDA Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean
2.1   The Bank's operational involvement in the Commonwealth Caribbean goes back to the 1960s.
Initially, the Bank's activity in the area was confined to the MDCs, including Trinidad and Tobago,
Jamaica and Guyana, and subsequently, Barbados and The Bahamas. Soon after its creation in 1970,
CDB also became a beneficiary of Bank lending and technical assistance. Through CDB, the OECS
countries benefitted from IBRD/IDA credits. Starting in FY82, IDA became engaged in direct
lending operations in the OECS countries. Between FY82 and FY92, IBRD/IDA lent to the
Commonwealth Caribbean US$996.1 million (about US$90.6 million per year), including US$188.6
million in IDA credits. Of the latter, US$30.1 million was lent directly to the OECS countries (seven
credits), US$124.5 million was lent directly to Guyana, and US$25.0 million was lent through CDB.
Parallel with its lending activity, the Bank has undertaken periodical reviews of the Commonwealth
Caribbean economies, dealing with both country economic performance questions and broader
regional development issues. Issues concerning major economic sectors have also received the Bank's
attention.
2.2   Before 1984, the Bank's primary focus in the Commonwealth Caribbean was on regional
development issues, including development of subregional institutions, and thereby supporting
individual Caribbean countries' development efforts. While some positive results were obtained in
this area (notably the strengthening of CDB), in 1984 the Bank concluded that progress was much
slower than anticipated (due primarily to varying perceived country interests and political difficulties).
The Bank, therefore, shifted its main emphasis to implementation of major policy reforms necessary
in each country to strengthen its creditworthiness thereby influencing regional development. These
objectives have guided the Bank's lending in the Commonwealth Caribbean in recent years.
2.3   The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) was created in
1977, under the chairmanship of the Bank, to channel substantially increased concessionary aid to the
Caribbean. In addition to the traditional aid-donors to the region (the UK, USA, Canada, EEC,
IDB), several European governments and Japan joined the CGCED as donors and, by 1986, became
increasingly active in support of the development effort in the region. Within the CGCED
framework, the Bank has placed increased emphasis on policy dialogue with the Caribbean aid
recipient governments regarding their development priorities and their adoption of sound
macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment policies.
2.4   Both LDCs and the MDCs benefitted from participation in the CGCED. Economic reports
and public sector investment programs (PSIP), prepared by the Bank were submitted to potential



donors, and discussed at country subgroup meetings. These subgroup meetings were normally held at
the time of the Caribbean Group meetings which were generally held at 12-month intervals. The
meetings are now held every two years with meetings of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee in
intervening years and special country subgroup meetings are held as needed between the biennial
meetings of the CGCED. In the context of the preparation of their economic reports for the CGCED,
Bank staff maintain an active dialogue with the governments concerned on their formulation of PSIPs.
CDB has focused mainly on economic work on the UK-dependent territories and on preparation of
PSIPs for the OECS countries and Belize. It also prepared a country economic memorandum for St.
Lucia in 1992, and plans in future to collaborate with the Bank in the preparation of Medium-term
Framework Papers for Belize and the OECS countries, and an OECS regional report. The subgroup
meetings focus attention on the central issues of economic performance and priority financial
requirements for the countries concerned. The CGCED has also promoted regional activities which
benefit a group of Caribbean countries, such as the program for agricultural diversification, securing
financing for private sector investment projects through the establishment and financing of the
operation of the Caribbean and Central America Business Advisory Service (formerly the Caribbean
Project Development Facility), and securing financing to support stabilization and adjustment
programs.
B. Future Bank Role in the Commonwealth Caribbean-ODoortunities and Constraints
2.5   The Bank has now successfully brought about the basic institutional framework and the
essential donor collaboration to increase aid to the Commonwealth Caribbean in support of the
governments' economic adjustment and development policies. Economic performance in several
Commonwealth Caribbean countries, particularly in the OECS area, has improved in recent years.
Nevertheless, there is still much need for economic adjustment to ensure economic viability. Most
economic adjustment and restructuring measures are essentially long-term propositions and increased
amounts of concessional aid will be needed, particularly in the OECS countries, while such measures
are being implemented. A major issue for the Bank, and for other aid agencies, is how to sustain an
adequate net flow of resources to the Caribbean region during the prolonged economic adjustment
phase. In addition, policy advice and technical assistance to governments will be needed to help them
formulate and execute sound adjustment and development programs.
2.6   Future Bank operations in the Commonwealth Caribbean will be conditioned by IBRD and
IDA graduation policies and the Bank's focus on efficient, high-return interventions. A number of
Commonwealth Caribbean countries have reached the current per capita GDP eligibility thresholds for
future IBRD or IDA lending. The Bahamas is no longer eligible for IBRD loans and a final lending
program was initiated in 1984 for phasing out IBRD lending to Barbados. IBRD lending was
resumed to Trinidad and Tobago in FY90 when per capita GDP fell below the graduation threshold,
largely as a result of falling petroleum output and prices. The Bank decided to resume lending in the
context of an appropriate macroeconomic framework, with a view to supporting structural adjustment
until such time as the country's per capita income and access to capital markets improved. The
OECS countries, given their relatively high per capita GDP, are going through an IDA phase-out
period until they are considered fully creditworthy for exclusive IBRD lending. In addition to
constraints due to IBRD/IDA graduation policies, for a large number of member states in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, small size and the smallness of individual projects not only increase
significantly the relative cost of individual Bank operations, but (because of limited staff resources the
Bank would be able to assign) also set limits to the Bank's ability to respond effectively to their needs
and to deliver the level of services they expect as IBRD/IDA members. To overcome this constraint,



- 8 -
future Bank lending to the OECS countries will henceforth be channelled largely through the CDB
and through regional projects which benefit more than one Commonwealth Caribbean country.
C. Ih CDB Role In the Commonwealth Culbbean
2.7    The CDB has the task of promoting economic development and integration in the
Commonwealth Caribbean with special regard to the needs of the LDCs in the region. Since its
creation, CDB, with substantial assistance from bilateral and multilateral aid agencies (including the
Bank), has developed into an important regional development finance institution. The Commonwealth
Caribbean governments (particularly those in the OECS area) consider CDB as their own development
agency, familiar with local conditions, and want it to play an increasingly important role in the
region. From its founding through CY93' CDB approved loans totaling US$1,072 million, of which
53% was for projects in the LDCs. CDB's financial position remains sound with a strong capital
structure, large reserves and comfortable liquidity (see Chapter III).
2.8    To be able to respond more fully to the growing needs of its borrowing member countries
(BMCs) during the next few years, CDB plans to: (i) intensify its policy dialogue with BMCs, other
multilateral financial institutions (MFIs), donors and development institutions to promote concerted
action in dealing with development problems faced by the BMCs; (ii) strengthen its economic and
sector work; (iii) increase its mobilization of resources from external and regional capital markets;
(iv) expand its lending operations by 5% annually in real terms by continuing its lending to the public
sector for social and physical infrastructure and by channelling a greater proportion of its resources to
the private sector through a broader range of financial intermediaries; (v) broaden the scope of its
public sector lending for development of economic and social infrastructure to include, much more
extensively, poverty reduction, human resource development and environmental protection; and (vi)
increase its level of technical cooperation for institutional strengthening. Attainment of these
objectives will take considerable effort and will call for collaboration with other multilateral
development institutions active in these areas.
2.9    CDB has established itself as an important supplier of long-term credit to the public sector in
the BMCs. Overall, CDB's share of the external debt of BMCs is small, about 5%. However, it
represents about 42% of the outstanding public and publicly-guaranteed debt of the of the OECS
countries, excluding Antigua and Barbuda. CDB is concerned that other multilateral lending
institutions' financing of public sector investments may decline in the near future, as a result of
financial constraints, and due to multilateral agencies' lending policies (notably, the IBRD and IDA
graduation policies). To attain its long-term operational objectives, CDB has to develop the necessary
staff expertise to meet its new challenges, and it has to offer competitive services and terms of
financing relative to various multilateral and bilateral aid agencies active in the region (particularly in
the MDCs).
2.10   The bulk of CDB's conventional lending resources comes from other multilateral lending
agencies and its own funds. However, in June 1992, CDB issued US$30 million of ten year notes
with an interest rate of 8.18%. The notes, which were placed privately, received a Triple A rating.
Other lending by CDB on softer terms is provided principally through CDB's Special Development
Fund and Other Special Funds. From these soft lending resources, CDB extends to its Caribbean
4. CDB uses the calendar year as its fiscal year.



-9-
member states a relatively large volume and variety of technical assistance, which sometimes has no
direct link to CDB's lending program. In that sense, CDB performs an important advisory role for
its member states. It has also begun to assume a greater role of coordination and economic
cooperation within the Commonwealth Caribbean.
D. Strategic Alliance between the Bank and CDB
2.11   Until 1990, the Bank looked to CDB as a channel, at a lower cost than the Bank could do
directly, for lBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible Bank/CDB member countries in the Caribbean and also
wanted to strengthen CDB to become a more effective regional development bank in the region. In
1990, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for closer cooperation between the Bank and CDB
was signed by the two institutions providing for Bank/CDB collaboration in the areas of
economic/sector work, aid coordination, adjustment/program lending, investment project lending and
technical assistance. Closer collaboration between the two institutions, under which CDB would
supplement and gradually take over certain Bank roles in the Commonwealth Caribbean, offered a
good opportunity for both institutions to improve the efficiency of their operations. It provided the
framework under which each institution's comparative advantage (i.e., the Bank's broader experience
and greater operational stature, and CDB's Caribbean experience and greater ease in operating in
mini-states) could be fully utilized for the benefit of the common Caribbean member states. The
results of this collaboration were reviewed during two meetings between the Bank and CDB in
September 1992 and March 1993. Both institutions agreed that the results had been positive and that
with some modifications (i.e., closer collaboration in some areas, and a broader and more clearly
defined role for CDB), the cooperative program should be formally extended.
2.12   The administrative costs of the Bank's direct lending operations in the Commonwealth
Caribbean have been relatively high, mainly due to: (i) the large number of small loans required to
operate in a number of small countries; and (ii) the extensive economic work required of the Bank in
its role as chairman of the CGCED. The CDB has now taken over some of these functions, including
preparing country economic reports on the UK dependent territories and some OECS countries, and
public sector investment programs for the OECS countries, Belize, and the UK-dependent territories.
It has also taken over the preparation of documents for the CGCED meetings for the UK dependent
territories and chairs the subgroup meetings on these territories. Through this process, CDB has
increased its role and strengthened its standing in the region. This has allowed the Bank to allocate
manpower resources for other (more cost-effective) endeavors elsewhere in the Commonwealth
Caribbean. Under this approach, the Bank-CDB relationship is expected to evolve progressively into
a partnership based on shared interests, in addition to a lender/creditor relationship as in the past.
E. Experience with Past IBRD/IDA Lending to CDB and Lessons Learned
2.13   General. The Bank's relationship with CDB started with its role as the executing agency for a
UNDP project to provide technical assistance to CDB after its founding in 1970. In April 1976, the
Bank made a loan to CDB of US$17.0 million (1233-CRG) and a third window loan of US$3.0
million (1234-CRG). In January 1980 the Bank provided CDB with a US$23.0 million loan
(1775-CRG), a US$7.0 million IDA credit (960-CRG) and a US$1.0 million EEC special action
credit (37-CRG). In May 1983, IDA made a SDR 6.5 million credit (1364-CRG). In May 1987,
IDA made a SDR 4.8 million credit (1785-CRG) to CDB for a regional education project for the
benefit of five participating OECS countries. In June 1990, the Bank made a loan to CDB of US$ 20
million (3200-CRG) and a SDR 9.1 million credit (2135-CRG). Excepting the 1987 credit, all



- 10-
IBRD/IDA funds were made available to CDB as global lines of credit, for relending in all sectors in
which the Bank would normally lend. All these lending operations addressed the objectives of: (a)
channeling additional development funds to the IBRD/IDA member countries; (b) strengthening
CDB's organization to make it a more effective regional development institution; and (c) improving
CDB's ability to appraise and supervise projects. Considerable progress has been made in the
achievement of these objectives, although, certain manpower shortcomings still remain to be
overcome (paras. 3.7-3.13). Presented below are summaries regarding the past IBRD/IDA lending
operations to CDB. Data regarding the characteristics of all subloans financed under these operations
are presented in Annex IV, Table 2.
2.14   The First CDB Project (Loans 1233-CRG and 1234-CRG). Loan 1233-CRG was used to help
finance nine subprojects in six countries: four (47%) to national DFCs, three (36%) for
transportation projects and one each for tourism (27%) and industrial estates (15%). Loan 1234-CRG
(a third window loan) financed four subprojects in four LDCs. The subprojects included electricity
generation, ports, sugar development and mortgage finance. Six of the total 13 subprojects required
the calculation of economic rates of return which ranged from a high of 65% for a cruise ship pier to
8-20% for the others. Grace periods ranged from 10 years for a road project to 2 years for a
commercial aircraft purchase. Repayment periods were from 8-18 years. Cancellations associated
with Loan 1233-CRG totaled US$1.4 million. The two largest cancellations from the loan were for
the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB) for US$0.8 million and a Guyana forestry road project for
US$0.3 million. The former was due to the deteriorating financial condition of JDB, which was
subsequently closed. The latter was caused by unfinished work due to a contractors' dispute.
2.15   The Second CDB Project Loan 1775-CRG. Credits 960-CRG and 37-CRG. The
transportation sector was the largest recipient (31 %) of total funds provided under this operation. The
subprojects in this sector comprised an airport terminal building in the Cayman Islands, a port project
in Dominica (to rebuild what was devastated by a hurricane), repair of flood-damaged roads in
Jamaica and a feeder roads project in St. Kitts. Another 22% went to Barbados and Guyana for three
manufacturing projects, two of which were owned by the private sector. A mortgage finance subloan
for housing in Jamaica and a DFC operation in The Bahamas accounted for 16%. Two water supply
projects, one in Jamaica and the other in Grenada, represented 12%. The energy sector's share of
10% was for financing two power projects, one each in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The subloan
for the power project in St. Vincent and the Grenadines was in the form of blended funds from
IBRD, IDA and EEC to complete the financing plan. Other subloans (4%) were for equity
contributions to three DFCs as part of financial restructuring programs to revitalize the institutions in
Antigua, Dominica and St. Lucia. The remaining (5%) represents an unallocated balance of US$1.9
million (US$1.4 million under Loan 1775-CRG and US$0.5 million under Credit 960-CRG) which
resulted from cancellations of undisbursed balances for four subprojects. Only 10 of the total 16
subprojects required the calculation of economic rates of return which ranged from a high of 34% for
a seals and packaging project to 12-30% for the others. Grace periods ranged from 8-10 years for
equity investments in DFCs to 1.5 years for a sugar factory subproject. Repayment periods were
from 9 to 40 years.
2.16   The Third CDB Project (Credit 1364-CRG). Credit 1364-CRG was used to finance four
subprojects in four OECS countries: SDR 1.33 million for a road reconstruction subproject in
Grenada; SDR 1.52 million for a feeder roads subproject in Dominica; SDR 1.48 million for a feeder
road subproject in St. Vincent and the Grenadines; and SDR 1.10 million for a water supply
subproject in St. Lucia. About 16% of the original Credit amount was canceled due to savings in



- 11 -
project costs in SDR terms which resulted from the appreciation of the SDR. About 80% of the
Credit amount (as against the agreed minimum 60%) was allocated to the three poorest OECS
countries: Dominica, Grenada, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. On a sectoral basis, the
transportation sector was the largest recipient of the Credit proceeds, involving three subprojects
which accounted for 80% of total credit funds. The remaining balance of 20% went to one water
supply project. According to CDB's own individual PCR on each of four subprojects financed under
CDB III, three subprojects are likely to achieve an economic rate of return (ERR) higher than CDB's
normal minimum ERR of 15% for those projects financed from special fund resources. The
remaining one (water supply) subproject is likely to achieve the ERR of about 8%. The grace period
for the IDA subloans ranged from 5-8 years and the repayment period 40 years.
2.17   The Fourth CDB Project (Credit 1785-CRG). Different from the format of the preceding
three CDB projects, this project was designed to improve the quality and quantity of trained technical
manpower in five OECS countries which are the project beneficiaries. It provided investment funds
for construction, equipment and furniture, as needed, for technical training programs, vocational
education programs in senior secondary high schools and prevocational programs in junior secondary
schools and technical assistance. The civil works and equipment and furniture procurement have been
completed; however, technical oversight (of architectural plans, building design, etc.) by the
borrowers was far less than expected. Accordingly, some of the furniture is not appropriate for the
scale/size of classrooms and workshops, cost overruns occurred in several subprojects, a number of
buildings failed to meet the safety and security requirements for educational facilities (e.g., adequate
emergency exits), and insufficient attention was paid to local building techniques which would have
permitted more natural ventilation and lighting and lower maintenance costs. The curricula
development and fellowship program components of the project have been successful; however, the
labor market information system is being implemented more slowly than expected and, although a
number of initiatives have been taken to establish national training boards, the consensus for
establishing a regional training board has not yet emerged.
2.18   The Fifth CDB Project (Loan 3200-CRG and Credit 2135-CRG). Under this project,
subloans for six subprojects (three road improvement and maintenance projects, two sea defenses
projects, and a port development project), involving US$18.2 million IBRD and SDR 8.5 million IDA
funds, have so far been authorized.' The remaining balance of US$1.8 million IBRD and SDR 0.6
million IDA funds is expected to be committed before December 31, 1994.
2.19   Evaluation. Evolution of Bank's institutional development strategy for CDB under each of the
Bank lending operations with CDB is summarized in para. 4.1. Of the eight direct subloans made by
CDB under the first CDB project (IBRD lending operation), it post-evaluated five as successful and
three as not so successful. The former involved relatively simple subprojects relying on a single
primary contractor. In these cases, construction costs did not significantly exceed budgets and the
economic benefits occurred as anticipated. These subprojects included a tourist shopping center
development, a forestry road, a cruise ship pier, an industrial estate and a diesel electric generator.
The three subprojects with negative ex-post economic rates of return can be characterized as more
complex subprojects in which CDB had less experience at the time of appraisal. A subproject for the
purchase of two commuter-size aircraft ran into trouble over operational and financial management of
5.     Final authorization for one subloan is subject to receipt of CDB's formal request; there is no
outstanding project issue.



- 12 -
the airline. A sugar mill subproject suffered from a weak implementation team, improper design,
engineering and cost controls, and insufficient field extension services. The cost of a port subproject
was underestimated by a factor of two. In this last case, Bank funds were used to complete the
financing plan, and the investment was justified using a sunk-cost analysis. Five other subloans under
the first CDB project were for financial intermediaries; two of these were generally unsuccessful and
DFCs involved have had to be reorganized. On balance, performance of subprojects financed under
the first operation has been marginally successful. Under the second CDB project (IBRD/IDA
lending operation), nine of the 16 subprojects financed in 11 CDB-member countries were found
generally successful. Of the remaining, three subprojects (a cardboard container manufacturer, a
sugar mill, and an electricity project) met their objectives despite some problems. Subprojects for a
water supply, a development bank, and manufacturing of clay products were not successful. Of four
subprojects financed under the third CDB project (IDA lending operation), three were generally
found to be successful; the fourth, was partly successful in meeting its objectives.
2.20   Rate of Utilization of Loans/Credits. Under the first two operations, CDB took substantially
longer to approve and disburse subloans than anticipated at appraisal. The delays were due largely
to: (i) IBRD's statutory requirements that each subloan must have a country guarantee; (ii) economic
problems in CDB's largest borrowing countries (Jamaica and Guyana), as a result of which CDB had
to sharply reduce lending to them; (iii) lack of absorptive capacity in the lesser developed member
countries (LDC); (iv) reluctance of several governments to provide a guarantee for private sector
subprojects (for IBRD funding); and (v) availability of competing softer-term funds from other
lending agencies (in particular sectors and borrowing countries). The pace of disbursements under the
third line of credit operation with CDB was also slower than expected due to delays in subloan
commitments and limited project implementation capacity in beneficiary countries. Under CDB V,
the loan and credit funds have been committed, slightly behind schedule, but disbursements have been
much slower than expected as a number of steps required to make the CDB subloans effective have
taken somewhat longer than originally planned.
2.21 Lessons Learned, Under the first Bank loan to CDB6, the Bank learned that it would take
time to develop a multi-sectoral development bank that can become effective in all spheres of activity,
not only because of staff limitation but also due to the need to develop internal operating procedures,
organizational structure and management. The Bank also learned that in using regional institutions as
a channel for its funds, the Bank would need to evaluate what types of operations the regional
institution can already undertake effectively and what institutional improvements and technical
assistance are needed before other types of operations could become eligible for Bank funding. It was
also clear that any regional institution which the Bank could support would need to pursue sound
banking practices and resist undue pressure to dilute loan conditionality. Under the second CDB
project7, it became clear that CDB needed to put more emphasis during appraisal on the institutional
capacity of project executing agencies. It was important that staff of the Bank and CDB needed to
collaborate closely in order to increase the effectiveness of their lending activities, avoid duplication,
and better serve member states. It was also clear that CDB would need to strengthen its capabilities
to provide its borrowing member countries with macro-economic analysis and advice. Under the
6. Ref. OED's Project Performance Audit Report dated June 25, 1985 (No. 6306).
7. Ref. a PCR on the CDB H project dated June 28, 1991 (Report No. 9741).



- 13 -
third CDB project', it became clear that to help CDB implement effectively its plans for monitoring
and improving the quality of its portfolio, an implementation plan for a follow-up operation with CDB
should specify the timetable for preparation of comprehensive portfolio review reports, at least once
every year.
2.22   Other areas of the Bank/CDB Relationship. Outside the direct borrower/lender relationship,
and the collaboration under the cooperative program, the Bank and CDB have also collaborated in
CDB cofinancing of some IBRD/IDA projects, and CDB received Bank technical assistance. On the
whole, the Bank's experience with CDB in respect of its role in these activities has been satisfactory.
F.    Closer Collaboration between the Bank and CDB-The Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU)
2.23   As mentioned above (para. 2.11), the Bank and CDB agreed to revise the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) signed in 1990 to reflect a closer collaboration in some areas and more clearly
define the role for CDB, and formally extend the agreement. The aim of the agreement, as in the
past, will be to improve the effectiveness of aid and to increase the efficiency of operations in the
Commonwealth Caribbean. CDB will progressively complement, and eventually supplant, some
current Bank roles in the region in areas where CDB has a comparative advantage over the Bank.
This will enable the Bank to redirect its resources within the Commonwealth Caribbean for policy
advice, support of policy reforms and other developmental work, including those areas of project
lending where it has a comparative advantage. In support of this process, the Bank will assist CDB to
broaden the scope and improve the effectiveness of its services to common member states. As before,
the Bank will look to CDB as its intermediary for development assistance in the Commonwealth
Caribbean, in addition to its direct lending to its member states there.
2.24   A copy of the Bank/CDB MOU recently negotiated between the two agencies, is attached
(Annex II). It provides for Bank/CDB collaboration in the areas of economic/sector work, aid
coordination, adjustment/program lending, investment project lending and technical assistance. The
salient features of the agreement are the following:
(a)    On economic/sector work, CDB and the Bank, in consultation with each other, will
define their broad economic development objectives in each of their common member
countries, as well as in the Commonwealth Caribbean as a whole; agree on
compatible strategies to attain those objectives, and inter-relate their respective
programs. Within this framework, CDB will focus its attention mainly on the
UK-dependent territories and on preparation of PSIPs for the OECS countries and
Belize, while the Bank will focus its attention on the MDCs (with provision for
Bank/CDB joint action in all these areas) until this work can be gradually assumed by
CDB; beginning in 1995, CDB will take the lead in assisting OECS countries to
prepare Medium-Term Framework Papers.
(b)    On aid coordination, CDB will be responsible for preparation of the CGCED
documents needed on the UK-dependent territories and will chair the CGCED
subgroup meetings on these territories. CDB will, on an ad hoc basis, also chair
8. Ref. a PCR on the CDB m project dated December 22, 1993.



- 14 -
meetings of Barbados-based donor representatives to discuss problems encountered in
the implementation of projects financed by such donors. The Bank will be responsible
for preparing national Environmental Action Plans and CDB for national Poverty
Assessments. The Bank will continue to lead in handling the CGCED activities which
remain outside the scope of these endeavors.
(c)    On adjustment/program lending, while CDB intends to have some independent lending
activity (such as in the UK-dependent territories), in most cases, during the next two
years it will finance adjustment program lending operations in association with the
Bank.
(d)    For the next two years, the following guidelines will apply to the Bank/CDB
collaboration in processing of investment projects in the region:
(i) Within limits of its institutional capabilities, CDB will process for its lending
all investment projects in the UK-dependent territories.
(ii) For investment projects in the OECS countries and Belize, the Bank will
continue to finance projects where it has comparative advantage, i.e., projects
in sectors for which CDB has no processing capability and those projects
which are too large and/or too complicated for CDB to handle alone. For
these categories of projects, CDB may seek joint financing with the Bank.
(iii) In the common member countries outside the UK-dependent territories, the
OECS and Belize, CDB and the Bank will plan their lending operations in
consultation with each other, singling out projects which CDB and the Bank
may jointly finance. They will also determine, on an ad hoc basis, which
agency will lead the project processing work for such a jointly-financed
project. Outside the area of jointly financed projects, each agency will
continue to program its lending activity alone, or in association with other
financiers.
(iv) As firm groundwork for their intensified collaboration in investment project
lending, CDB and the Bank will harmonize (as far as possible) their sectoral
development strategies and lending policies.
(e)    For non-project related technical assistance to the common member governments, the
Bank and CDB will program their activities in consultation with each other, to avoid
duplication of effort and to increase collaboration as feasible.
2.25   A continuing close collaboration between the Bank and CDB on a broad front of activities, as
listed above, will require exchange of information and documents, joint programming effort and
coordinated execution of programs, involving all CDB and Bank managers in charge of economic and
sector work, aid coordination, adjustment/investment lending and technical assistance. Informal
contacts at all levels will be required. Two- or three-year rolling Bank/CDB work programs will be
prepared and jointly reviewed at least once every year, and more frequently if conditions require it.
The MOU, as revised, will soon (after signing by CDB and Bank representatives) replace the original
text and remain in force until a party notified the other of its intention to terminate it. It is intended



- 15 -
that the proposed sixth IBRD/IDA project for CDB would be implemented within the framework of
this extended Bank/CDB relationship.
III. THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
A. Constitution and Objectives
3.1    CDB was established in 1970 by 16 Commonwealth Caribbean governments (including U.K.-
dependent territories) as regional members, Canada and the UK as nonregional members, and with
financial assistance from the USA, a nonmember. Venezuela joined the CDB in 1973, Colombia in
1974, Mexico and Anguilla in 1982, France in 1984, Italy in 1988, and the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG) in 1989. CDB's Charter provides that the regional members9 must hold not less
than 60% of the CDB shares. The authorized CDB capital, as of December 31, 1993, comprised
115,000 shares, of which 99,620 shares, valued at US$648.4 million, had been subscribed. Of the
subscribed amount, US$143.4 million was paid up and the balance of US$505.0 million is subject to
call when required by CDB to meet its obligations.
3.2    According to its Charter, CDB's main objective is to contribute to the harmonious economic
growth and development of its member countries in the Caribbean and to promote economic
cooperation and integration among them, "having special and urgent regard for the needs of the LDCs
in the region." To fulfill this objective, CDB assists its regional members in formulating their
development programs, provides technical assistance and finances their projects and programs. CDB
has been designated as an associate institution of the CARICOM (para. 1.2) and, as such, plays an
important role in coordinating regional discussions concerning economic issues in the region.
B. CDB's Board. Management. Organization and Staffing
3.3    Each member country is represented on CDB's Board of Governors, the highest
policy-making body, by a governor and an alternate'". The Board of Governors is composed of 21
governors who meet at least once a year; voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed.
The Board of Governors delegates certain functions to the Board of Directors which is comprised of
17 members, appointed for a renewable 2-year period, of whom 12 represent the regional CDB
members and 5 the nonregional members. The Board of Directors meets six times per year and is
responsible for general policy and directing the operations of the CDB, including loan and investment
approvals. The CDB's President is the Chairman of its Board of Directors.
3.4    The current President was elected in 1988, and reelected in 1993 for a second five year term.
Under his leadership, CDB has built a strong, well-knit management team, mainly through internal
promotion. CDB has two Vice Presidents (one for Operations and the other for Corporate Services)
and four Department Directors (Finance, Projects, Economics and Programming, and Legal), all of
9. The "regional members' include all member countries except Canada, the UK, France, Italy, and Germany. The
"borrowing member countries (BMC)" are the Commonwealth Caribbean states, including the UK-dependent
territories.
10. Excepting Montserrat, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Anguilla,
which jointly elect one governor.



- 16 -
whom are members of the Advisory Council to the President (ACP). The ACP is the most important
committee within the CDB; it meets on a regular basis at least once a week to discuss issues requiring
management-level decisions.
3.5    CDB's present organizational chart, shown in Annex XI, took its shape as a result of a
reorganization made in 1984/85 with some modifications made in 1991 and in January 1994. In
1985, the Legal and Finance Departments and Administration Services were placed under a Vice
President (Corporate Services). The Projects and Economics and Programming Departments were
placed under another Vice President (Operations). The Projects Department, after the changes made
in January 1994, has two Deputy Directors, one in charge of the Productive Sector Division, and the
other in charge of the Social Development Division, who are accountable for their portfolio of
projects and for achieving the agreed lending program targets. The Productive Sector Division
consists of (i) an Economic Infrastructure Unit responsible for lending for transportation, utilities and
other construction projects; (ii) a Financial Intermediaries Unit responsible for lending through
development finance companies (DFCs) and other financial institutions, and (iii) a Sector Analysis and
Direct Lending Unit which is responsible for direct lending in mining, industry, tourism, agriculture
and other services. The Social Development Division consists of (i) a Poverty Reduction and
Environmental Unit responsible for projects with an environmental or poverty focus and the Basic
Needs Trust Fund (para. 3.67); (ii) a Technical Cooperation and Human Resource Development Unit
responsible for human resource development, technical cooperation loans and grants and the
Caribbean Technological Consultancy Services; and (iii) a Training Unit responsible for organizing
and delivering training courses primarily for middle level public officials of borrowing member
governments. CDB has also established a Project Implementation and Portfolio Quality Monitoring
Section reporting directly to the Projects Department Director to monitor loan supervision and
portfolio quality. There are Chief Project Officers (CPO) in each unit. The CPOs are responsible for
managing each unit.
3.6    With a view to improving its cost effectiveness, CDB-with the assistance of
consultants--carried out a management and productivity study in 1990. The study identified a number
of general and specific areas for improvement. In general the study concluded that CDB could: (i)
improve the focus and increase operational accountability in specific operations; (ii) transfer more
operational accountability and decision making to lower management levels; (iii) acquire appropriate
computer tools for preparation and analysis of loan applications; (iv) have better prepared projects
submitted to CDB; (v) streamline approval/application procedures; (vi) reduce costs of information
gathering and reporting; and (vii) improve word processing capabilities. A number of specific
proposals for improving efficiency were also identified including; streamlining loan disbursement
procedures, post-implementation review, loan portfolio analysis and the processing of accounts
payable invoices; and improving the access to and retrieval of information, data base sharing and
internal reporting. CDB appointed a task force to guide and monitor the implementation of the above
reforms with the assistance of a consultant and, except for the management information systems, they
were implemented between July 1990 and the end of 1992. The CDB is in the process of establishing
a management information system including a project information system and social and economic
data base system. This system, once introduced, would provide data on projects at every stage of the
project cycle and would produce supervision summaries and loan portfolio analyses. The system will
be an important management tool in planning and controlling lending and supervision activities. CDB
is also establishing a sophisticated data retrieval system to assist staff in economic and project work.



- 17 -
3.7    As of September 1993, CDB had a total of 192 staff comprising 7 executives (the President,
two Vice Presidents, and other members of the ACP), 85 professionals (including 7 secured under
technical assistance programs or financed by CDB's special funds), and 100 support staff. Since the
end of 1989, CDB total staff has been reduced by 14, including 9 professionals and 5 support staff.
The corporate management and productivity study (para. 3.6), in addition to pointing out ways to
improve staff productivity, concluded that, with such productivity increases, CDB staff in 1990 was at
a level which could handle existing functions, but that CDB would need additional specialized
manpower if its mission were broadened. This is, in fact, what is currently happening with CDB's
new emphasis on poverty reduction, environmental protection and human resource development, and
the need to supervise adequately an increasing portfolio of projects. The CDB's budget for 1994
approved by the Board provides for four new professional staff positions to deal with new areas of
emphasis. The total staff complement has been increased to 196 (including staff financed under the
technical assistance program) and CDB is now engaged in filling these positions and a number of
vacancies caused by the departure of several staff in 1993. With use of donor-provided technical
assistance funds for hiring of personnel for preparation of project proposals and greater use of short-
term consultants to supplement CDB staff, the proposed level of CDB's staff complement appears to
be adequate to implement the projected level of project work and other work programs over the next
several years. However, the Bank will continue to review CDB's manpower/staff training needs in
the context of a periodic joint review of BanklCDB work programs under the collaborative program
and the implementation plan for the proposed project.
C. Operational Policies and Procedures
3.8    Financial and Operational Policies. CDB's Charter states that the institution will be guided by
sound development banking principles. Accordingly, CDB is expected to finance only economically
sound, technically feasible and properly appraised projects. CDB can finance private as well as
government-owned projects through debt or equity investments. In making or guaranteeing a loan,
CDB has to pay due regard to the prospects that the borrower will be able to meet its obligations
under the loan contract. Once an investment is made, CDB is required to supervise the project
concerned to ensure that its funds are used with due attention to economy and efficiency. Within the
framework of its Charter, CDB, in consultation with the Bank, established in February 1987 its
"Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines". These guidelines
call for, among other provisions: (a) maintenance of interest coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 times
and accumulation of adequate reserves (of not less than 30% of outstanding loans); (b) restricting total
OCR lending to the sum of net paid-up capital, ordinary reserves (ess investments in fixed and other
assets), unallocated net income and the callable capital of the OECD member countries; (c) OCR
borrowing not to exceed 85% of the value of the callable capital held by the OECD member
countries; (d) exposure in any single country not to exceed 50% of CDB's equity" and the exposure
in the three largest borrowers taken together may not exceed 100% of CDB's equity; and (e) tight
loan administration (no new loans to countries in default until clearance of their arrears, and
suspension of disbursements after three months of arrears). CDB also adopted new accounting
policies for non-performing loans, setting up non-accrual and specific provisioning policies. CDB is
currently amending its financial policies to reflect more stringent financial targets and to assure that it
maintains its AAA credit rating. Accordingly, it is proposing to raise its minimum targets on interest
coverage ratio and reserves to loan ratio, revising a target minimum rate of return on capital and its
11. Defined as the sum of paid-up capital, ordinary reserves, and retained earnings less receivables from members.



- 18 -
administrative expense ratio, and introducing new policies in certain areas including currency risk
management. CDB's conservative financial policies, which stem from its experience in the late 1980s
with large arrears by one of its major borrowing members (para. 1.5) as well as the limited
diversification of its loan portfolio in comparison with larger multilateral development banks, are
prudent as it has just begun to establish itself in the international capital markets.
3.9    CDB's operational policies and procedures are elaborated in its "Operational Policies and
Procedures Manual." This manual requires, inter alia, that projects financed from OCR should
normally have financial and economic rates of return not lower than the opportunity cost of capital.
In the case of projects with low financial rates of return and which are financed from Special Fund
Resources (SFR) (para. 3.16), the economic rate of return required is normally a minimum of 15%
(to justify CDB funding under its Charter requirement for "high developmental priority"). Agreement
was obtained during negotiations that CDB would not substantially amend its Charter, OCR Financial
Policies and Operating Guidelines, and its Operational Policies and Procedures Manual, if such an
amendment would adversely and materially affect CDB's operations or financial condition.
3.10   Details of CDB's lending terms and conditions are given in Annex III. The minimum size for
a direct CDB loan in any country is US$200,000 to a public sector borrower and US$750,000 to a
private sector borrower. The exchange risk on all CDB loans is borne by the borrower or guarantor.
Loans to governments from OCR, for which CDB bears the financial risk, may finance up to 80% of
project costs in the case of projects in the LDCs and 70% in the case of projects in the MDCs (both
ratios representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange components). Loans to private
borrowers are limited to 40% of total project costs, subject to a maximum debt/equity ratio of 1:1,
and a debt service coverage of at least 2. In the case of expansion projects, such levels will depend
on its performance and its current capital structure with special reference to the retention and use of
earnings"2. Loans from SFR, which are administered by CDB on behalf of donors, are made
principally to governments, and may finance up to 90% of project costs. In its lending operations,
CDB must give priority to the financing of enterprises which are effectively controlled by nationals of
regional member governments or their public agencies. Under its Charter, CDB is also required to
see to it that its loans are "adequately secured." For private sector lending, this normally means a
first mortgage on property or other form of security without prior claim. CDB's OCR lending rate
on loans made after April 1, 1984, which is variable, is set so as to achieve a 7% return on equity.
This rate is currently 7.5% on loans to the public sector and financial intermediaries, and 9.5% on
loans to non-financial intermediary private sector borrowers. There is no front-end fee on public
sector loans, and a I % front-end fee on private sector loans. CDB's OCR lending terms, determined
on project grounds, vary between 15-23 years, including up to 5 years of grace. CDB's SFR lending
rates and terms vary from 2% p.a. for 40 years, including 10 years of grace, to 5% p.a. for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, depending on the countries; at present, OECS countries (other than
Antigua and Barbuda), Belize and Guyana are entitled to the most favorable rate and terms. CDB is
also revising its country and private sector exposure limits, and making certain other policies more
explicit. The Bank is being consulted on the proposed revisions.
12. CDB will not provide financing in any one project and/or to any one private sector borrower of less than
US$750,000 on the one hand or more than 15% of CDB's ordinary reserves or US$5 million, whichever is less, on
the other.



- 19 -
3.11   CDB management has recently updated its Lending Strategy Papers in the major sectors in
which it operates. Its management-approved strategies for lending operations (paras. 3.31-3.54) have
been reviewed within the Bank and found generally compatible with the Bank's own development
strategies in the Caribbean region. As part of the Bank/CDB collaboration under the Memorandum of
Understanding, the Bank and CDB will exchange views on their respective development strategies and
will agree on necessary adjustments from time to time (para. 2.24).
3.12   Project Apprai. After preparation, projects are expeditiously appraised by CDB and
appraisal reports usually written within about two months. After review at the divisional and
departmental levels, the appraisal report is sent for approval to the Loan Committee, headed by the
Vice President--Operations. CDB's project appraisal reports are generally comprehensive, and the
CDB has made a sustained effort in the last two or three years to strengthen the institutional and
environmental aspects. CDB has particularly focused on strengthening the financial intermediaries
through which it lends and has improved its analysis of their institutional strengths and weaknesses.
Efforts are being made to improve the sectoral analysis, within the framework of broad
macroeconomic policies, and how the project relates to it through the recently established sector
analysis unit. In the last few years it has introduced project performance monitoring indicators in
project appraisal reports to assist CDB staff in their subsequent supervision work. CDB has recently
accumulated a significant backlog of approved projects which have not reached the implementation
stage. While CDB plans to hire consultants who would assist borrowers and implementation agencies
for CDB projects in expediting implementation, CDB management also recognizes that appraisal
reports should include more critical analyses of the executing agencies and their capacity to implement
projects, as well as the availability of counterpart funding. CDB management is aware that, based on
such analyses, appraisal report should include realistic implementation schedules including specific
actions required by governments and the executing agencies. In order to improve the quality of its
appraisal reports further, CDB plans to send to the Bank selected appraisal reports (particularly those
in areas in which CDB staff have limited experience) for the Bank's review and comments.
3.13   Project Supervision. CDB projects staff monitor the progress in project implementation and
compliance with the loan covenants through site visits'3 and the review of periodic reports from
borrowers. Unlike the Bank, CDB maintains its supervision visits after project completion. Project
officers prepare a supervision summary report after each supervision visit. These reports are
reviewed by the relevant Chief Project Officer and the Deputy Director; problem projects are referred
to Projects Department review meetings and, if necessary, are taken up at meetings of the Loan
Committee. On the basis of the Loan Committee's decisions, action is taken to deal with selected
problem projects. The physical implementation of projects is, by and large, adequately monitored, as
sector specialists with engineering backgrounds normally supervise projects under implementation.
However, more timely monitoring of project implementation and performance (particularly in terms
of operating efficiency, financial performance, and institutional development) has been hampered by a
shortage of analysts. Moreover, recently the staff's focus on new projects and other matters has
reduced staff attention to maintaining adequate supervision documentation. As a result, the annual
portfolio status reports for recent years were either incomplete and/or not prepared in a timely
manner. However, reflecting CDB's new emphasis on strengthening its portfolio performance
management, CDB has recently prepared a comprehensive report analyzing the latest status of all
13. Normally once every quarter for those projects with problems or in early stages of implementation, and once a
year for other projects being implemented without major problems.



- 20 -
projects under implementation (para. 3.72). Moreover, CDB, concerned about the slowness of loan
disbursements and to improve the overall quality of the loan portfolio, has established a task force
with responsibility for recommending changes in CDB's policies and procedures to speed
disbursements, maintain portfolio quality, and develop a project monitoring system. During
negotiations, it was agreed that CDB would keep the Bank informed of results of the work of the task
force and its plans for implementing new measures. The project implementation plan requires that
CDB review with the Bank at least annually its work program and budget including staff resources to
carry out supervision work, and review its annual portfolio evaluation with the Bank.
3.14   CDB's Procurement and Disbursement Policies and Procedures. CDB's procurement policies
and procedures on OCR loans (i.e., procurement financed from CDB's own funds, including share
capital and multilateral bank and market borrowing) are broadly similar to the Bank's own
procedures. They were modified in 1992 principally to clarify the definitions and evaluation criteria
and to revise category values to reflect inflation. International competitive bidding is required on
goods contracts, and goods and works together, with an estimated value above US$1 million and on
works contracts above US$750,000. For works and goods contracts costing less than these amounts,
but more than US$300,000, contracts may be awarded on the basis of letters of invitation to at least
three qualified contractors or suppliers where the project is located and at least one qualified
contractor or supplier from each other eligible country. For works and goods costing between
US$150,000 and US$300,000, contracts may be awarded on the basis of letters of invitation to at
least three qualified contractors or suppliers resident in the country where the project is located and at
least one qualified contractor or supplier from each other regional eligible member country. If there
are not at least three qualified contractors or suppliers resident in the country nor at least one
qualified contractor or supplier from each other regional eligible countries, contracts may be awarded
to three or more qualified contractors or suppliers from all eligible countries. For works and goods
contracts costing up to US$150,000, contracts may be awarded on the basis of letters of invitation to
at least three contractors or suppliers where the project is located (or to at least three regional
contractors or suppliers, if qualified local contractors or suppliers do not exist; or to at least three
qualified contractors or suppliers from all eligible countries in the absence of at least three qualified
regional contractors or suppliers). For goods contracts costing less than US$7,500, off-the-shelf
procurement is permitted, with an aggregate limit of US$50,000. CDB may permit a margin of
preference of 15% or the actual import duties whichever is less for goods manufactured in the
Commonwealth Caribbean, and up to 7.5% for goods manufactured in other regional member
countries and for contracts from Commonwealth Caribbean member countries who are not resident in
the project country for civil works when competing with other contractors. For procurement under
CDB's OCR funds, eligible bidders are normally limited (by CDB Charter) to those of the CDB
member states and those countries which contribute substantially to CDB's resources. For
procurement under SFR funding, CDB applies the procurement guidelines of the lender or donor
concerned. Under previous Bank/IDA lending operations, CDB permitted procurement from all
Bank/IDA member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, China. CDB's disbursement procedures are
broadly similar to the Bank's own procedures.
D. Past Lending Operations
3.15   Overview. From its inception in 1970 through December 1993, CDB's total financing
approvals (net of cancellations) amounted to US$1,171.4 million in loans, contingent loans, grants
and equity investments. Net cumulative loan approvals amounted to US$1,072.2 million (or 91.5%
of total financing approvals); contingent loan approvals, US$5.4 million (0.5%); grant approvals,



- 21 -
US$91.8 million (7.8%); and equity investments, US$2.0 million (0.2%). Cumulative disbursements
totaled US$848.8 million, or 72.5% of total net approvals at the end of 1993.
3.16   Operations by Type of Funding. CDB's financing operations are of two types: (i) ordinary
operations, and (ii) special operations, including trust fund operations. Ordinary operations are at
CDB's risk and are financed from the Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)--CDB's equity funds, and
borrowing from multilateral banks and the market. Special operations include loans made by CDB at
concessionary rates (2-5% p.a.) for financing of priority projects, mainly in the LDCs. The Special
Funds Resources (SFR) consist of: (a) Special Development Fund Unified (SDFU), (b) Special
Development Fund - Other (SDFO), and (c) Other Special Fund Resources (OSFR). The Unified
SDF reflects the pooling of resources (interest-free with no date for repayment) into one fund while
the SDFO reflects the earlier system in which donor resources are accounted for separately because
some original donor funds could not be pooled into the SDFU due to certain conditions (e.g., interest
payment and principal repayment) attached to them. The third category of SFR, OSFR, consists of
funds established by donor countries and agencies, such as IDA, at no risk to CDB. Trust Fund
resources include funds managed by CDB on behalf of donors for a fee, with the credit risk borne by
the fund; at present it consists of the Venezuela Trust Fund (VTF).
3.17   As of December 31, 1993, CDB's financing operations were accounted for (on the basis of
cumulative approvals) by OCR, 37.3%; SFR, 61.2%; and VTF, 1.5%. CDB's annual loan approvals
by the two major sources of funds (OCR and SFR) during the 1989-93 period were as follows (Table
3.1):
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF ANNUAL LOAN APPROVALS
BY SOURCE FUNDS, 1989-93
1989       1990        1991       1992       1993      1989-1993
US$M        USSM       US$M       USSM       US$M         US$M
(No.)      (No.)       (No.)      (No.)      (No.)        (No.)
OCR              43.5         51.0      72.3       52.6       45.8        265.2
SFR              32.1        63.7       36.0       26.1       45.5        203.4
Total (Gross)   75.6        114.7      108.3       78.7       91.3        468.6
(16)        (17)       (18)       (12)       (15)         (78)
CanceUations     2            14.2       0.2        8.8       21.3         46.9
Total (not)     73.2        100.5     108.1       69.9       70.0        421.7
Since Italy and the Federal Republic of Germany subscribed to CDB's capital at the end of 1988 and
in early 1989, respectively, CDB's constraint on increasing its OCR lending eased. Accordingly,
CDB increased its OCR lending to an average of US$53.0 million a year between 1989-93 compared
with US$17.9 million a year in the period 1984-88. Lending reached a peak of US$114.7 million in
1990 (before cancellations) when CDB made a US$42 million loan to Guyana to support its economic
recovery program, following resolution of Guyana's long-standing problem of debt service arrears.
Lending was maintained at a high level in 1991 but declined in 1992 as economic performance in
most of the CDB's borrowing member countries continued to be sluggish, reflecting the prolonged
recession in their major trading partners and their own tight fiscal and monetary policies to protect



- 22 -
their balance of payments situation. In particular, those countries undergoing economic adjustment
(e.g., Barbados) implemented sizeable cuts in their public sector investment programs. In 1993, loan
approvals (gross) picked up substantially, but due to cancellations the level of net approvals remained
the same as in 1992.
3.18   Operations by LDCs and MDCs: Country Exposure. During the period 1970-93, the LDCs
received 53.3% of CDB's total financing, including 68.3% of CDB's concessionary SFR approvals.
At the end of 1993, loan approvals (both OCR and SFR) for Jamaica accounted for 19.2% of CDB's
cumulative net loan approvals. Comparable ratios were 9.8% for Guyana and 9% for St. Lucia,
around 6% to 7% for Barbados, Belize, Dominica, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and around
5% each for The Bahamas, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, and Trinidad and Tobago; the remaining
16% being accounted for by six other borrowing member countries and by regional projects.
3.19   Sectoral Distribution. Details of CDB's cumulative approvals of loans by various sectors
during the 1970-93 period are shown in Annex IV (Table 1). As summarized in Table 3.2 below,
infrastructure, industry and tourism, and agriculture accounted for the bulk of CDB's lending
operations in the past.
Table 3.2: CDB LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR, 1970-93
(US$ million)
Direct       Lending
lending      through DFCs        IQa
uS$ M (%)    US$ M (%)            US$ M         ()
Infrastructure          460.3          45.5a          505.8        47.2
Agriculture              83.7          91.5           175.2        16.3
Industry & tourism      192.4          97.5           289.9        27.0
Others'                  77.8          23.5           101.3         9.5
Total                814.2 (76.0)  258.0 (24.0)   1,072.2     100.0
Mortgage finance.
b/ Includes disaster rehabilitation, structural adjustment loans, student loans and multi-sectoral loans.
The preponderant share of infrastructure in CDB's loan approvals reflects CDB's continued emphasis
on developing basic infrastructure to stimulate and/or increase productive activity. The CDB's
lending to DFCs has been channeled by these intermediaries largely into industry and tourism, the
agricultural sector and, to a lesser extent, to mortgage financing, and student loans.
3.20   Within infrastructure operations, CDB's lending has largely been directed to the transport
sector, followed by public utilities and housing. Recent loans for sea defenses reflect CDB's new
focus on environmental projects. CDB's lending for infrastructure is shown in Table 3.3 below. In
the transportation sector, a general lack of comprehensive transportation policy in many of CDB's
borrowing member countries has made determination of priorities difficult. There has been reluctance
on the part of some borrowing governments to maintain adequate tariffs for their transportation
services and to provide necessary maintenance. Shortcomings in management, in certain instances,



- 23 -
have also hampered the successful operation of completed projects. CDB has made loans for airport
and seaport investments. In public utilities, a prevalent absence of comprehensive sectoral
development policies or inadequately defined public policies, together with institutional and financial
weaknesses, have complicated CDB's lending operations in these sectors. There has been a growing
emphasis on the power and water and sewerage sectors and on projects with an environmental focus,
e.g., sea defenses. CDB has not been active in the telecommunications sector. CDB's lending
strategy in the infrastructure sector (paras. 3.31-3.38) makes provision to deal with the main issues
and constraints noted here.
Table 3.3: CDB's LENDING TO INFRASTRUCTURE, 1970-93
Amount         %
US$ million
Transport Sector                270.6       53.5
Road transport                112.7       22.3
Sea transport                  81.6       16.1
Air transport                  76.3       15.1
Public Utilities                119.1       2.
Power                         53.0        10.5
Water supply                   57.8       11.4
Communication                   8.3        1.6
OtherInfrastructur               126         2
Housing                          59.        11.7
School Construction              2Q          5:7
*Sea Defenses                    15.2        3 1
Total                        5..1
3.21   CDB started financing housing projects in 1974 when, with assistance from the USAID, a
three-pronged program was launched consisting of urban working class housing, a primary mortgage
program and a secondary mortgage program. The urban working class housing program ran into
difficulties, mainly because of institutional weaknesses, and was terminated in 1978. CDB then
adopted its current policy of financing housing construction only through primary mortgage programs
channeled mainly through national DFCs. At the end of 1991, CDB began a shelter development
program catering to income groups lower than those reached in its primary mortgage scheme. CDB's
lending strategy in the housing sector is summarized in para. 3.37.
3.22   CDB's agricultural lending accounted for about 16.3% of CDB's total loan approvals during
1970-93. Lending for agriculture through DFCs totaled about 52% of CDB's lending in the sector.
Details are shown in Table 3.4 below.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: CDB's LENDING TO THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR, 1970-93
US$ million     %
Lending through DFCs                                29.L
Direct Lendin'                                       83.7      47.8
Crop farming                                       34.0       19.4
Fishing                                             3.0        1.7
Land settlement & rural development                 1.5        0.9
Rural roads                                        39.5       22.5
Others                                              5.7        3.3
Total                                           175.2      10.
3.23   With greater emphasis on the private sector's role in the development of Caribbean agriculture
in the future, the importance of DFCs in channeling CDB funds will increase. CDB's lending
strategy in the agriculture sector is summarized in paras. 3.39-3.42.
3.24   CDB's lending for the industry and tourism sectors totaled US$289.9 million during 1970-93,
equivalent to about 27.0% of total CDB lending. CDB has lent for industry and tourism in three
ways: (i) direct loans to the private sector (41.7% of its total lending in industry and tourism); (ii)
indirectly through DFCs for smaller-scale private industrial and tourism enterprises (33.6%); and (iii)
for construction of government-owned and operated tourism facilities (3.2%) and industrial estates
(21.5%). Details are shown in Table 3.5 below.
Table 3.5: CDB's LENDING TO INDUSTRY AND TOURISM, 1970-93
Amount         %
US$ million
Lending through DFCs                    97.5a
Direct Lending                          192.4       664
Industrial estates                     62.2        21.5
Food, beverages & tobacco              37.5        12.9
Sugar                                  11.8         4.1
Other manufacturing                    51.2        17.7
Hotels & tourist facilities            29.7        10.2
Total                                2899 
3.25   CDB has contributed to the development of entrepreneurship in the Caribbean through its
sponsorship (with other agencies) of technical assistance programs for small-scale enterprises.
Moreover, it recognizes that increasing the availability of long-term loan funds is critical if the private
sector role in achieving export-led growth is to be enhanced. However, the growth in CDB's lending



- 25 -
to the private sector has not been as rapid as CDB had wanted it to be and its experience with some
subborrowers has been rather disappointing. Firms to which it has lent have suffered from weak
management, poor project design and marketing and under-capitalization. It also recognizes that,
given the narrowness of the industrial base in small Caribbean economies, the quality of security and
level of risk associated with this type of lending are major deterrents to expanding the scope of such
lending. Accordingly, CDB plans to develop over time the expertise to manage these risks better.
Until then, its current policy is to limit its direct private sector lending to cofinancing arrangements
with other lenders, both domestic and international.
3.26 CDB has been active in financing industrial estates to provide space and ancillary services to
small-and medium-sized businesses. CDB recognizes that continued development of industrial estates
will be instrumental in assisting its borrowing member countries to develop their industrial sectors. It
also recognizes that there is scope to improve their operational and economic efficiency to minimize
the fiscal burden on the borrowing countries. CDB's lending strategy in the industry and tourism
sectors is outlined in paras. 3.43 and 3.44.
3.27   CDB's lending through financial intermediaries, mainly national Development Finance
Companies (DFCs), during 1970-93 amounted to US$258.0 million or 24% of CDB's total net loan
approvals since its inception. Of this, industry and tourism accounted for 38% of total CDB lending
through financial intermediaries; agriculture 35%; and housing and student loans, 18% and 9%,
respectively. Also, CDB's lending through DFCs represented about 70% of total CDB lending to the
private sector.
3.28   Most DFCs in the Commonwealth Caribbean were created by the governments concerned
mainly as vehicles for the attainment of their economic development policy objectives. The
governments consider their DFCs to be lenders of last resort, operating in the marginal area where
other financial institutions will not normally operate. As a result, these DFCs are saddled with
high-risk financing operations (including small loans to new business enterprises, loans to small
farmers, student loans, etc.) which commercial banks tend to shy away from. The DFCs' loan
portfolio, which almost exclusively consists of private sector loans, remains small as compared with
that of commercial banks' total loans outstanding to the private sector. Yet, despite the small size of
their portfolios, the DFCs in the region have been playing an important role in development of small
scale agriculture, industry and tourism, in low-cost housing and in making student loans.
3.29   In general, while the DFCs have been fairly successful in making CDB's funding available to
a broad spectrum of private sector beneficiaries in several important sectors of the Caribbean
economies, the institutional performance of DFCs as lending institutions has been mixed. Currently,
16 financial institutions are drawing down CDB's lines of credit. Except for two second-tier
institutions in Jamaica and two commercial banks which borrowed directly from CDB, the remaining
12 institutions are DFCs. Among these DFCs, seven are currently operating profitably; the quality of
their portfolios is sound; and their capital structures remain adequate with periodic injections of
additional capital by the governments as the volume of lending grows. Common features of these
reasonably successful DFCs are: capable management and relatively low turnover of staff and little
political interference in day-to-day operations. The remaining five DFCs, have one or more of the
following characteristics: (i) weak management, largely resulting from high turnover at the managerial
level; (ii) lack of operational autonomy; (iii) a weak capital structure; and (iv) poor portfolio quality.
One of these DFCs is being restructured and merged into a national commercial bank.



- 26 -
3.30   Most DFCs in the region (particularly in LDCs) operate in a competitive environment, with
no special privileges. In their access to foreign currency loans from CDB and other external lenders,
they assume the foreign exchange risk. This adds to the overall picture an element of uncertainty;
therefore, it is difficult to assess the long-term financial viability of the DFCs, because the extent of
potential foreign exchange loss cannot be predicted with confidence. The currency union in the
OECS, which would require the unanimity of members for exchange rate adjustments, ensures a
degree of exchange rate stability. In some other countries, the currency in use is the US dollar, and
generally all currencies in CDB's BMCs are pegged to the US dollar. Accordingly, whenever
possible, CDB makes loans to the DFCs in US dollars to minimize foreign exchange risks. In its
direct and indirect (through governments) lending operations to the DFCs, CDB ensures that the
DFCs would get adequate spreads to cover their administrative expense, risk provisioning and
reasonable profit. It also assures that the DFCs follow prudent lending and financial policies. The
survival of the DFCs in an increasingly competitive financial enviromment will depend largely on their
capability to adapt to the changing conditions. CDB's strategy in lending through financial
intermediaries and eligibility criteria for its lending to financial intermediaries are summarized in
paras. 3.45-3.51.
E. Lending Strategies
(a) Infrastructure
3.31   Overview. The primary goal of CDB's lending strategy in the infrastructure sectors will
continue to be to provide support to productive sectors and, in particular, to increase the
competitiveness of production for export. In addition, policies to ensure optimal utilization of the
existing infrastructure (with adequate maintenance provisions), economic pricing of services, effective
sector organization, and commercially oriented management will guide CDB lending in the
infrastructure sectors. Programs to increase private sector participation in ownership and operation of
suitable infrastructure facilities will be encouraged. Policy adjustment needs and measures to protect
the environment will receive priority attention and environmental analysis will be integrated into
project analysis. Through its technical cooperation programs, CDB will continue to strengthen the
project implementation capacity of borrowers. CDB will work together with other multilateral
agencies to implement sectoral adjustment policies in infrastructure.
3.32   In lending operations in road transport, CDB will continue to place emphasis on feeder road
improvements in support of agricultural and other sectoral development, as well as on rehabilitation of
main roads which lead to sources of raw materials and to export outlets. Systematic maintenance
needs to be upgraded in all member countries. CDB will seek, through public sector expenditure
reviews and discussions with govermnents on the adequacy of road user charges, to assure adequate
budget resources are available to achieve adequate levels of maintenance. CDB has been promoting
and hopes to extend the use of the Highway Design Maintenance Model to assess the scope, budget
and priorities for road maintenance.
3.33   In sea transpor, after a period of relatively heavy investment in development of new ports,
CDB lending activity shifted to the rehabilitation and improvement of existing facilities, together with
technical assistance to governments to improve port operations and management (i.e., encouragement
of economic pricing and development of autonomous port administrations). With continuing
expansion of the cruise ship market and the increased trend in containerization in Caribbean ports,
opportunities will arise for selective CDB financing of improvement of facilities in some ports to



- 27 -
enable them to respond to the newly emerging needs. CDB also plans to continue to finance small
vessels to transport merchandise between the islands.
3.34   In air transpor, CDB's role will generally be limited to assisting selected airports to improve
their landing areas and passenger and cargo-handling facilities, together with technical assistance to
upgrade air transport operations and management.
3.35   In the past, CDB has made substantial investments to improve water supplies. Need for
investment remains high as a result of an increased focus on tourism and the growing needs of local
populations. Water quality is also becoming a growing problem due to chemical contamination and
poor waste disposal. CDB's lending in this sub-sector will increase in the future and its focus will
broaden to cover water and sewerage. In its lending, CDB has sought to set water management on a
more commercially-oriented and self-financing footing. It will encourage governments to set up
single water and sewerage authorities with private participation and a commercial orientation based on
the economic pricing of water and sewerage services.
3.36   In the power sector, partly because of the lack of government resources for investment, CDB
expects that there will be an increase in private sector generation and transmission of power, either by
the private sector alone, or in joint venture with government. Where governments continue to be
responsible for power generation, transmission or distribution, CDB will continue to provide
assistance, incorporating, where possible, renewable energy sources. CDB will also continue to
provide assistance to improve transmission and distribution networks to minimize both technical and
non-technical losses and maximize conservation. Emphasis will continue to be placed on improving
the financial viability of power companies by restructuring and increasing tariffs and improving the
collection of arrears.
3.37 CDB's lending activity in the housing (shelter) sector has been confined to financing of
construction through primary mortgage programs channelled through national DFCs and a few
national commercial banks (para. 3.21). In 1991, CDB began a shelter development program
catering to income groups lower than those reached in its primary mortgage scheme. Recently it
made a loan to a DFC to finance sites and services and a special assistance mortgage program to
finance housing and home improvement. The sites and services development is managed by the
housing agency and profits from sales of lots are to be used to provide rebates on home mortgage
payments which are made on time. In its shelter operation, CDB will target low to lower-middle
income groups where voids in access to financing exist. CDB will also seek to cofinance shelter
projects with other bilateral and multilateral funding agencies.
3.38   In addition to integrating environmental analysis into its project analysis so that investment
projects it finances are sound, CDB plans to: (i) assist borrowers, in coordination with other
institutions, to develop national policies and institutional and regulatory frameworks to manage the
environment and their natural resources effectively and in a sustainable manner; (ii) assist borrowers
in obtaining on concessionary terms financing for projects and programs for environmental
management and protection and natural resource management; and (iii) promote collaboration and
coordination on environmental matters at the regional and subregional level. In addition to guidelines
on environmental assessments developed in consultation with the Bank and adopted in March 1990,
CDB has prepared an environmental policy paper which outlines, among other things, CDB's role in
the environment. CDB plans to finance, subject to availability of appropriate concessionary
resources, a few priority projects in water and sewerage, waste management, coastal protection,



- 28 -
drainage and water shed management which have important envirounental aspects. In addition CDB
plans to cofinance with the Bank a Waste Management Project for the OECS countries.
(b) Agriculture
3.39   CDB's lending strategy in agriculture reflects its awareness of the sector's important economic
and social role (as a source of income and employment). CDB is also aware that certain structural
inadequacies in the sector adversely affect its performance. During the next few years, the sector will
be exposed to increased world competition and has to adapt to changing market conditions and
develop new market outlets and new products, domestically and overseas, in line with the comparative
advantage of the Caribbean economies. With appropriate government policy frameworks,
infrastructure and support services, the private sector will have to respond to new market
opportunities.
3.40  In its future lending activity in agriculture, CDB will emphasize: (i) promotion of a sound
macro-economic and sectoral policy framework (bringing prices in line with world market prices
through elimination of subsidies and reduction of agricultural protection and/or excessive taxation)
conducive to accelerated agricultural growth and adjustment; (ii) market driven diversification of
production led by private entrepreneurs willing to invest in new product ventures; (iii) government
support for diversification, primarily by providing an appropriate incentive framework for
diversification, supporting infrastructure investments and marketing support through trade shows, and
effective demand-driven technology development and transfer where these are not available from other
sources; (iv) strengthening the capabilities of financial intermediaries to finance sound agricultural
investments on commercial terms; and (v) encouraging investment in non-traditional crops and
fisheries through setting appropriate incentive and regulatory frameworks rather than through direct
government intervention/involvement.
3.41  In the Caribbean context the question of ownership and/or control of land is of particular
importance to resource utilization. The CDB will support the divestment of government-owned
agricultural land and production facilities and improved land registration and titling. CDB will
support the formation of farmers' organization as an interim step until a cadre of private
entrepreneurs emerge in the sector. CDB will also support the progressive transfer to the private
sector, especially to growers' associations, of extension services, enabling governments to focus on
providing advice on sustainable farming practices for better conservation of natural resources. CDB
will fully support measures to protect the environment through sound management of natural
resources. This impinges directly on the use of land, water and forest resources, erosion control,
watershed management and chemical use in production activities. Environment assessments would be
a critical component of CDB's project appraisal function and greater emphasis would be placed in
project design on the mitigation of adverse environment impacts.
3.42 CDB will pay more attention than in the past to the fisheries subsector, concentrating its
involvement in the sector on: facilities for storage and distribution of fish; joint venture activities with
foreign investors for exploitation of the region's fish and for related processing activities; technical
assistance and training in fishing and in related activities such as boat building and fish
handling/processing; and encouragement of competitive pricing. In the forestry subsector, CDB
expects that its lending activity will be confined to support of physical infrastructure (such as access
roads) and logging and wood processing industries (which fall under infrastructure and industrial



- 29 -
lending, respectively), together with technical assistance to governments on policies regarding forestry
management-particularly in respect of environmental impact.
(c) Industry and Tourism
3.43   In its lending and technical assistance activities in industrial sector, CDB will seek to (i)
provide its borrowing member governments with policy advice, technical assistance, if justified,
sector loans (i.e., investment loans for specific sectors); (ii) provide direct financing only in
collaboration with established international financial institutions for project with profit-making
potential under capable and experienced management; (iii) in lending directly to enterprises, priority
will be placed on projects which would introduce the technology and marketing arrangements for
penetrating extra-regional markets, aim at financial and operational restructuring with a view to
improving productivity/competitiveness and reorienting operations toward satisfying extra-regional
markets, and be based on agricultural processing for local or export markets; (iv) continue its credit
operations through eligible financial institutions to reach a wide range of beneficiaries in the sector
(para. 3.46); (v) channel technical assistance (under its technical cooperation programs) toward the
improvement of productivity, quality standards, packaging, marketing including pricing, use and
development of technology, and manpower development, etc.; and (vi) finance industrial estates as a
continuing means to develop small-and medium-scale businesses, whether regionally or foreign
owned. In its lending for industrial estates, CDB will promote the adoption of least-cost designs, the
adoption of rental rates which will recover economic costs of estates, and the development of estates
offering occupants the option to construct or purchase factory space on economic terms.
3.44   In the tourism sector, CDB intends to: (i) collaborate with other regional agencies to help
member governments develop better marketing, environmental, and macroeconomic policies to
encourage development of a healthy tourism industry; (ii) continue to fund public infrastructure in
support of tourism such as cruise ship facilities, airport expansion or rehabilitation; (iii) make loans to
governments for integrated tourism projects, including improvements in tourism sites and services;
and (iv) strengthen the capacity of eligible national financial institutions to screen and fund
smaller-scale tourism ventures which Caribbean investors find it easier to establish. Because of its
poor experience with tourism loans, CDB will make direct loans for tourism projects only in
collaboration with established international financial institutions.
(d) Financial Intermediaries
3.45   CDB's lending through financial intermediaries (mainly DFCs) stems from its basic objective
of supporting development in the productive sectors of its borrowing member countries at as low a
cost as possible. From CDB's vantage point, the DFCs (and/or other eligible intermediaries) will
continue to have an important role in channeling CDB's funds to small-and medium-sized agricultural,
industrial and tourism ventures over 17 different small countries and territories, scattered over the
sea, many of which have very small populations. Also, CDB intends to promote the development of
the financial sector in its member states by fostering the establishment of viable local financial
institutions and by strengthening those which already exist.



- 30 -
3.46   In pursuing the above objectives during the next 3-4 year period, CDB intends to:
(a)    continue to use financially viable DFCs (which meet appropriate specific eligibility
criteria) as channels for its funding for private productive sectors in the borrowing
member countries;
(b)    as feasible, attempt to diversify its channels for indirect lending to private productive
sectors by using commercial banks, merchant banks, etc. (which meet appropriate
specific eligibility criteria). Within this context, CDB will explore opportunities for
"apex-type" lending; and
(c)    assist in the rehabilitation of selected DFCs if other, more effective channels of
indirect lending are not forthcoming.
3.47   CDB is aware that the restructuring of financial institutions (particularly national DFCs) is a
costly and time-consuming undertaking and is not always successful. In cases where the roles of the
financial institutions to be rehabilitated are clearly defined and justified in an increasingly competitive
environment, CDB will assist in the restructuring and recapitalization effort, but will do so only if it
is satisfied that the root causes of the DFCs' financial distress are being addressed and corrected.
Where broad macro-economic policy reforms and changes in the existing legal and regulatory
framework are deemed necessary, CDB may seek collaboration with other multilateral agencies in
identifying issues and exploring options for dealing with such issues. The main elements in
restructuring DFCs include: a thorough audit to determine the extent of equity erosion to define
capital adequacy; injection of additional capital where necessary; changes in the Board of Directors
and the appointment of experienced professional staff to manage the restructuring; strengthening of
operating standards and practices; and a specific plan for dealing with (and liquidating) non-
performing assets.
3.48   CDB has prepared eligibility criteria for its lending to DFCs. These criteria call for:
independent audit acceptable to CDB; the quality of its organization, management and staffing;
accounting policies; financial condition; loan administration policies (minimum collection ratios on
term loans and maximum arrears ratios); and other criteria such as appropriate policies regarding
lending rates, resource mobilization, and lending policies (such as willingness to make working capital
loans to improve the range of services provided and to diversify the maturity structure of their loan
portfolios).
3.49   CDB has also prepared eligibility criteria for lending,to other financial intermediaries such as
commercial banks. In order to be eligible to intermediate CDB funds, commercial banks would need
to meet standards of: capital adequacy; asset quality; loan provisioning; limits on loan concentration,
loans to connected parties and equity investments; appropriate interest accrual policies; competence of
management, adequacy of staffing; soundness of credit policies, control, planning and information
systems, and management observance of banking laws and prudential regulations; earnings; and
liquidity indicators.
3.50   The criteria for restructuring DFCs and the eligibility criteria for DFCs and other financial
intermediaries are acceptable to the Bank. At issue is the foreign exchange risk to which a number of
DFCs, which receive loans directly from CDB, are exposed. CDB's current policy is to lend to
DFCs in US dollars because borrowing members' currencies are either pegged to the US dollar or



- 31 -
managed to maintain their value relative to the US dollar. CDB considers that the Governments
implicitly assume the foreign exchange risk as they guarantee CDB's loans to DFCs.
3.51   CDB plans to extend its lending through financial intermediaries to local commercial banks,
both Government owned and privately owned institutions. CDB has already lent to two Government
owned commercial banks, but has not lent to private commercial banks (except for through Apex
institutions in Jamaica) because it is has not found suitable mechanisms for satisfying its security
requirements where a government guarantee is not available. It is considering the possibility of
basing its lending exclusively on the credit-worthiness of the financial intermediary with a negative
pledge agreement, or on the guarantee of a large, financially sound financial institution.
(e) Human Resource Development (HRD)
3.52   CDB's HRD activities have so far focussed on the following six areas. First, within the
context of project assistance to the productive sectors, CDB established a technical assistance program
which provided support for, among other things, modernization of management structures and
technology transfer, pre-investinent surveys and feasibility studies. Second, under the CDB/USAID
Basic Needs Trust Fund, CDB focused on employment generation through expansion and
rehabilitation of facilities in low income communities, such as schools and clinics as well as
upgrading access roads and improved water supply. Third, CDB's student loan scheme, initiated in
1972, has provided financial assistance through financial intermediaries (mainly DFCs) to help
students from OECS, Belize and the U.K. dependencies to pursue courses at tertiary level educational
institutions. Fourth, CDB co-financed with IDA the OECS Regional Technical/Vocational Education
Project (CDB IV project). Fifth, CDB has recently approved the Continuing Studies and Distance
Education Improvement Expansion Project which aims to address the issue of increasing access to
higher level education, through increasing and upgrading the communication technology and facilities,
and improving the efficiency of the University of West Indies (UWI). Finally, CDB's Training Unit
organized short-term training programs in project cycle management and economic management to
upgrade skills, primarily of middle management public officials, in project preparation, appraisal and
management and macroeconomic analysis and management.
3.53 CDB has recently formulated a policy for HRD and is increasing its staffing to implement the
policy gradually in the coming years. CDB's objectives stated in its HRD policy paper are to: (i)
strengthen its capacity to provide technical and financial assistance to BMCs in the area of HRD; and
(ii) foster an enhanced capability in BMCs for: (a) HRD policy formulation and incorporation into
national development planning and regional programs, (b) development of sectoral institutions, and (c)
development and adoption of measures to promote the enhancement of knowledge and skills. While
CDB recognizes that there is much to be done in the key areas of HRD -- such as education, health
and nutrition, and population control, CDB, constrained by human and financial resources, intends to
direct resources, at least in the short to medium term, to address the priority needs in education and
training. In pursuing these objectives, CDB plans to, inter alia: (i) include HRD issues, and
institutional capacities, in its sector and macroeconomic work and continue dialogue with BMCs on
HRD issues; (ii) strengthen Ministries of Education and training agencies in policy analysis, planning,
management and in their ability to identify, prepare, implement, monitor and evaluate programs and
negotiate with donors; (iii) support curricula reform, the improvement of teaching methodologies, and
the effective use of modern technology; (iv) strengthen regional institutions to provide support to
education and training systems; and (v) promote the development of a scientific, technological
orientation in education and training programs.



- 32 -
3.54   In implementing the strategy noted above, CDB plans to give priority to institutional reform
and basic education. The Bank agrees with this approach. Amid limited resources, strong arguments
exist for focusing new education sector lending on basic and secondary education, where the most
serious inequities in access to quality education now exist. Also, CDB can make an important
contribution to education sector development by promoting, through its policy dialogue with its
BMCs, greater cost recovery in tertiary and university education where private returns far outweigh
social benefits.
(f) Overall Assessment of CDB's Lending Strategies
3.55   CDB's revised lending strategies for major sectors, outlined above, are generally compatible
with the Bank's own strategies for the Commonwealth Caribbean countries. On the whole, the
revised sector strategies are more focussed and explicit, and provide a good basis for monitoring
CDB's institutional development. In pursuing the CDB's Board approved "Directional Plan/Strategy -
CDB to the Year 2000"' , CDB seeks, among other things, to: (a) strengthen (and maintain the
focus on) traditional project lending to assist in creating the physical and institutional infrastructure to
support private sector development; (b) expand its lending to the private sector through financial
intermediaries by diversifying the channel and/or developing new mechanisms for indirect lending; (c)
broaden the scope of public sector lending to include human resource development, poverty reduction,
and environmental protection; and (d) develop and finance small and micro-enterprise assistance
programs'5. CDB also underlines the importance of ensuring effective project implementation.
F. Lending Program for 1994-98
3.56   Proiected Operations by Type of Fund. CDB's lending program for the next five years
(1994-98) is summarized in Table 3.6 below. In addition to the base case shown below, CDB has
also prepared projections under low and optimistic scenarios, details of which are placed in the
project file. The assumed real annual rate of loan approvals is 3% for the base case, 0% for the low
case, and 5% for optimistic scenario. The projected levels of loan approvals for 1994 and 1995 are
essentially the same for three scenarios because they reflect a relatively large pipeline of projects (as
noted in para. 3.58). Projected differences in loan approvals in 1996-98 under different scenarios
will not be felt (in terms of disbursements, profitability, etc.) during the five-year projection period.
The projected levels of disbursements are basically the same for all cases (US$177-180 million during
the 1994-98 period) as they represent mostly flows from large undisbursed balance (US$161 million)
at the end of 1993. While there is a risk of cancellation of undisbursed commitments/ approvals, the
projected levels of disbursements have already provided for possible cancellations. The data in Table
3.6 are divided into two categories: (i) Ordinary Capital Operations funded from Ordinary Capital
Resources (OCR); and (ii) Special Fund Operations financed through SFR.
14. The Plan envisages that CDB will build on its performance both as a financial institution and development agency
'by providing finance and technical assistance, especially for economic and social infrastructure, directly productive
activities, human resource development, poverty alleviation and strengthening of national and regional institutions".
15. In this context, CDB has recently established a 'Small-scale Enterprise Development Programme (SEDP)" which
involves an allocation of US$3 million concessionary funding for credit operations and US$2 million grant funding for
technical assistance for micro- and small-scale enterprises. Operational modalities for this program are being
developed by a CDB consultant. The Bank would collaborate with CDB in reviewing the adequacy and feasibility of
operational modalities for this program when available.



- 33 -
Table 3.6: CDB's PROJECTED LENDING PROGRAM, 1994-98
(US$ Million)
-- ----- Actual-----   ------------rjce---------                Total
1989-93    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997        1998   1994-98
Ordinary
capital
operations         265       46       55      58       58       69       79       319
Special fund
operations         203       45       33      36       43       39       36       187
Total            468       91       88      94      101      108      115       506
3.57   The above lending program represents an annual average lending of US$101 million during
1994-98, compared with an annual average of US$94 million during 1989-93. From the standpoint of
demand for (or borrowing countries' absorptive capacity of) CDB's resources, the projected level of
lending seems reasonable as CDB has built up a strong pipeline of projects which would cover its
lending program through 1996 (para. 3.59). As noted in para. 3.7, the CDB staff complement as
reflected in the CDB Board-approved 1994 budget would enable CDB to carry out its lending
program and other work programs. However, CDB staff would need to be trained and/or retrained to
undertake the work adequately in the areas of poverty reduction and human resources development.
Finally, CDB has sufficient OCR lending authority and SFR resources to carry out its lending
program through the end of 1995. The CDB Board of Directors has recently commenced negotiations
for replenishment of SDF with a view to finalizing it before the end of 1995. In addition, the CDB
Board has begun to review CDB's OCR financial and operational policies and guidelines as a prelude
to its determination of a need for an OCR general capital increase (GCI) at this time.
3.58   Projected Operations by Sector and Project Pipeline. CDB's indicative allocation of OCR and
SFR financing for the 1994-98 period and projects in CDB's pipeline suggest that infrastructure
lending will continue to account for a large share of CDB lending operations. CDB's current project
pipeline for 1994 through 1996 consists of 93 projects requiring CDB financing of about US$396
million. Of these projects, 30 projects are for infrastructure projects with CDB potential financing of
about US$143 million; 23 are for lending through FIs with CDB's potential financing of about
US$122 million; and 40 are for industry (mainly factory shells), agriculture and tourism with CDB's
potential financing of about US$131 million. Apart from the Waste Management project for the
OECS countries which CDB plans to cofinance with the Bank, CDB intends to finance, subject to
availability of appropriate concessionary resources, a few projects for coastal protection, drainage and
water shed management, etc. The Bank and CDB are reviewing the possibility of cofinancing a series
of basic education projects for the OECS countries. As indicated earlier, the Bank and CDB would
jointly review their lending programs for Commonwealth Caribbean at least once every year to attain
the objectives set forth in the collaborative program. CDB's pipeline for IBRD and IDA subprojects,
shown in Annex X, calls for CDB financing of about US$48 million, including the proposed IBRD
loan and IDA credit proceeds.



- 34 -
3.59   OCR Lending Authority. OCR Resource Requirements and Financing Plan. While CDB's
maximum lending authority amounted to US$411.9 million"6 at the end of 1993, a unused balance of
the lending authority stood at US$58.2 million"7 as against the OCR lending program of US$319
million for the 1994-98 period. CDB's OCR lending authority would be increased by: (a) paid-in
capital increases (about US$20 million) arising from the maturing of the existing subscriptions during
1994-98; (b) projected net income of US$76.7 million during 1994-98; and (c) projected loan
collections of US$77.5 million during 1994-98. There will be a gap of CDB OCR lending authority
of about US$87 million; however, CDB is exploring the possibility of expanding its lending without a
need for an immediate General Capital Increase (GCI). As shown in Annex VI, CDB had committed
its long-term resources more than available by about US$2.8 million at the end of 1993. But, as of
the same date, CDB had about an unutilized borrowing capacity of about US$90 million with which
CDB would augment its long-term resources through borrowing from the Bank (the proposed Bank
loan of US$20 million) and IDB, and through tapping international capital markets.
3.60   SDecial Fund Resource Requirements and Financing Plan. In order to finance its SFR lending
program for the 1994-98 period, CDB will require concessionary resources amounting to US$187
million. As of December 31, 1993, SFR resources available for new loan approvals amounted to
US$53.8 million (Annex VI, Table 2). Cash flows under SFR operations are projected to be about
US$42.6 million during 1994-98. Therefore, there will be a gap of about US$90.6 million for CDB's
concessionary operations. In addition to the proposed IDA credit of US$11 million, other
concessionary resources are expected to be available to CDB through new pledges from donor
member governments and other contributors to the SDF resources.
G. Financial Position and Performance
3.61   Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR). CDB's audited balance sheets and income statements for
the past five years (1989-93) are shown in Annex V. At the end of 1993, total OCR assets stood at
US$316 million, consisting of loans (56%), liquid assets (26%), receivables from members (15%),
and other assets (3%). These were financed by share capital and reserves (74%), borrowed funds
(23%), and other payable (3%). The growth in CDB's OCR assets during 1989-93 was financed
primarily through increased reserves and paid-in capital.
3.62   CDB's OCR borrowing capacity, which represents the sum of CDB callable capital held by
the OECD member countries, stood at US$215.3 million at the end of 1993. However, as an
operating guideline, the CDB Board of Directors has restricted such borrowing to 85% of the callable
capital of the OECD members which amounted to US$183 million at the end of 1993. CDB's OCR
borrowing contracted, net of repayments and cancellations, as of December 31, 1993 amounted to
US$92.1 million, consisting of lines of credit from IBRD (US$42.3 million), Inter-American
Development Bank (US$19.2 million) and US$30 million in medium-term notes (with a 8.17%
16. Represents the sum of net paid-up capital (US$124.7 million as of December 31, 1993), ordinary reserves and
provisions (US$104.1 million), and 85% of callable capital held by the OECD member countries (US$215.3)--Canada
(US$49.0 million), UK (US$49.0 million), France (US$39.1 million), Italy (US$39.1 million), and Germany
(US$39.1 million).
17. Represents US$411.9 million minus the sum of total loans outstanding (US$188.1 million as of December 31,
1993), undisbursed loan commitments (US$128.7 million), and loans approved but not yet effective (US$32.7 million)
and fixed assets (US$4.2 million).



- 35 -
effective cost) issued in the U.S. capital markets in 1992. Following an interest rate swap, the
average cost of medium-term notes was reduced to 5.73% by December 31, 1993.
3.63   CDB's OCR liquidity position remained comfortable, with liquid assets amounting to US$80.4
million, which represented about 50% of undisbursed loan commitments (including loans approved
but yet to become effective) as of December 31, 1993. CDB's current liquidity policy adopted in
May 1991 requires CDB to maintain OCR liquidity level not less than 40% of undisbursed loan
commitments (defined as undisbursed effective loans plus loans approved but not yet effective). In
determining the adequacy of its liquidity level, CDB also take into account the previous policy of
maintaining liquidity corresponding to the projected net funding requirements"' (NFR) for the next
three years. CDB's OCR liquidity at the end of 1993 was more than adequate to cover NFR for the
next three years.
3.64   CDB's OCR annual net income increased significantly from US$6.9 million in 1989 to
US$25.9 million in 1990, thanks to the extraordinary income of US$18.2 million resulting from the
clearing of arrears of debt service by Guyana in that year. In 1991, net income reached US$12.4
million, compared with US$7.7 million in 1990 excluding the effect of extraordinary income in the
year. OCR net income rose to US$13.6 million in 1992; in 1993 it declined slightly to US$12.8
million along with reduction in CDB's lending rates in 1993. CDB's OCR profitability continues to
be satisfactory with the interest coverage ratio (ICR) of 3.5 times in 1993 (as against CDB's minimum
requirement of 1.5) and its reserves/loans ratio of 59.1 % (as against CDB's minimum requirement of
30%). CDB's return on equity was 7% in 1993, meeting its minimum requirement of 7%.
3.65   Special Fund Resources (SFR). The audited SFR (SDF Unified, SDF Other, and OSFR)
balance sheets and income statements for the years 1989-93 are shown in Annex V, Table I. At the
end of 1993, the combined assets of the SFR accounts, totalled US$589 million (US$327 million from
SDFU, US$91 million from SDFO, and US$171 million from OSFR). The composition of these
assets was made up of loans (57%), liquid investments (20%), and other assets (23%) which
represented largely receivables from contributors. Total assets were funded by donor contributions
(88%), and reserves (12%). Concessionary loan funding and grants have been received largely from
the USA, Canada, U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Colombia, Sweden, Nigeria,
Venezuela, Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago as well as IDA, IDB, and European Community.
3.66   CDB's SFR assets increased by 24% from US$474 million at the end of 1989 to US$589
million at the of 1993. Non-accruing SFR loans amounted to US$23.3 million or 6.9% of the total
SFR portfolio (compared with 4.2% for OCR loans) at the end of 1993. Against this, SFR reserves
stood at US$69 million while accumulated provisions for loan losses amounted US$11.3 million. The
combined SFR net income rose from US$8.2 million in 1989 to US$16.6 million in 1990. As in the
case of the OCR, 1990 was an exceptional year for the SFR due to the clearance of Guyana's arrears.
In 1991 and 1992, SFR net income hovered around US$6.6-7.6 million. In 1993, SFR net income
dropped to US$4.1 million due largely to the increase in provisions.
18. The next three years' net funding requirements equals: projected cash outflows for loan disbursements, debt
amortization, and capital asset acquisitions, less projected cash inflows from loan collections, net income adjusted for
non-cash items, increases in usable capital, and draw-down from lines of credit.



- 36 -
3.67   At the end of 1993, CDB had US$44.7 million of technical assistance and grant resources
made available to it by contributors (US$23.0 million) and authorized by its Board out of its SDF
operations (US$21.7 million). Of this amount, US$28.7 million had been utilized leaving a balance
of US$15.8 million. Of the unutilized balance of US$15.8 million, US$15.1 million was allocated
for the Basic Needs Trust Fund. For its TA operations, CDB expects to make additional allocations
of funds from CDB-SFR operations with its Board's approval.
3.68   Portfolio Ouliy. CDB's OCR loan portfolio amounting to US$188.1 million as of
December 31, 1993 was concentrated in five major borrowing countries: Jamaica (26.2%), Cayman
Islands (13.1%), Barbados (11.5%), Trinidad and Tobago (8.8%), and Bahamas (8.7%). Other
borrowers with significant shares include British Virgin Islands, Guyana, and St. Lucia, with about 4
to 6% each. CDB's country exposure is within the limits set by its Board (para. 3.8). OCR exposure
in Jamaica accounted for 40.2% of CDB's net worth as against the internal maximum limit of 50%.
OCR exposure in Jamaica, Cayman Islands, and Barbados combined, accounted for 82% of CDB's
equity (against a maximum limit of 100% for the 3 largest borrowers).
3.69   With the clearing of debt service arrears by Guyana in 1990, CDB's arrears situation
improved considerably. Also, by refusing to approve new loans to countries in arrears and
suspending all disbursements until arrears are cleared, CDB has managed to keep its borrowing
members (with the exception of Antigua and Barbuda) from accumulating protracted arrears. CDB's
overall arrears situation as of December 31, 1993 is summarized in Table 3.7 below.
Table 3.7: ARREARS POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1993
(US$ '000)
OCR                SFR                 VrF                Total
Total   Of which    Total  Of which    Total   Of which    Total   Of which
arreas    interet    arrears   intet    arrear    Intrest   arream    intet
Antigua and       2,614      1,143    4,567     1,951        -          -    7,181      3,094
Barbuda
Other countries   5.292      2.725    9.739     1.197                                   3.922
Total            7,906      3,868    14,306    3,148                  -   22,212      7,016
Of which private  5,693      2,466      901      474         -         -    6,594      2,940
sector loan
Total loan           188,048            346,352              3,436             537,836
ponfolio
3.70   At the end of 1993, overall arrears (US$22.2 million) represented 4. 1 % of overall loan
portfolio, compared with 8.5% at the end of 1988. Arrears on OCR loans (US$7.9 million)
accounted for 4.2% of total OCR loan portfolio. About 72% of arrears on OCR loans was related to
the private sector loans while nearly 94% of arrears on SFR loan portfolio was on public sector loans.
CDB placed its loans to Antigua and Barbuda, West Indies Shipping Corporation (WISCO--regional
corporation) and some private companies in non-accrual status; and total non-performing loans stood
at US$31.3 million (or 5.8% of overall loan portfolio), including OCR non-performing loans of



- 37 -
US$8.0 million (or 4.2% of OCR loan portfolio). At the end of 1993, CDB's overall loan loss
provisions amounted to US$23.2 million.
3.71   The Government of Antigua and Barbuda explored various options for settlement of arrears
with CDB, including partial settlement of arrears with CDB except for SFR portion relating to certain
projects and the possibility of rescheduling of CDB-SFR loans to those projects in question.
However, CDB does not reschedule its loans to the public sector and loans guaranteed by the
Government. Moreover, given the country's poor fiscal performance and the size of external debt
service arrears, Antigua and Barbuda's arrears problem may have to be resolved within a multilateral
framework. While WISCO was liquidated, all the shareholder Governments agreed to service the
EEC loan to CDB (from which the CDB loan to WISCO was funded) in proportion to their original
shareholding in WISCO. On the private sector arrears, CDB has taken legal actions against all the
hard core delinquent borrowers (loans for which full provisions were made) and been trying to
liquidate properties tabled as security.
3.72   As of January 1994, CDB had 105 projects under implementation and rated status of each
project on a scale of 100 (no problem), 75 (minor problem), 50 (moderate problem) and 25 (major
problem). On this basis, average status for all loans was 60.5's with 23 projects (or 22% of total
projects under implementation) rated as major problem projects. The mining and quarrying, water
and energy, and manufacturing portfolios had a significantly higher percentage of major problem
projects than average, while the transportation, financial intermediary and agriculture sector portfolios
had a lower percentage of problem projects. The tourism sector portfolio had no major problem. A
trend analysis is not possible in the absence of complete historical data. As noted in para. 3.13, CDB
has recently established a task force with responsibility for recommending changes in CDB's policies
and procedures to speed disbursements, maintain portfolio quality, and develop a project monitoring
system. During negotiations, it was agreed that CDB would keep the Bank informed of results of the
work of this task force and its plans for implementing new measures. The implementation plan for
the project provides for CDB's preparation of portfolio status reports, at least once every year.
3.73   Accounting and Audit. As prescribed in its Charter, CDB maintains entirely separate
accounts for OCR and each SFR account. Since CDB's inception, Price Waterhouse and Co. have
been CDB's auditors, and none of their reports has been qualified. Since 1985, CDB, without
objection from its auditors, has placed in non-accrual status all loans on which payment of interest,
other charges or principal is overdue for more than 12 months. In 1986, CDB in consultation with
the Bank introduced a specific provisioning policy. For private sector loans, provisioning is based on
the estimated shortfall between the outstanding loan balance and the most recent estimate of collateral
value.
19. Using a scale of I (minor or no problem) to 3 (major problem), average status for all projects under
implementation would be 1.8.



- 38 -
H. Projected Financial Position and Performance
3.74   Ordinary Capital Resources. As noted in para. 3.56, CDB has prepared three sets of
projections (base case, low scenario, and optimistic scenario), of which the (base case) projected OCR
financial statements for the years 1994 through 1998 are shown in Annex VII. Details of projections
under low and optimistic scenarios are placed in the project file. CDB's OCR projections (base case)
are based on the following assumptions, details of which are given in Annex VIII:
(a)     OCR lending and funding programs will be as outlined in paras. 3.56 and 3.59;
(b)    no constraint on OCR lending authority is assumed as an increase in the lending limit
is expected either through a GCI or modification of relevant policies;
(c)     maintenance of liquidity levels at the minimum 40%  of projected undisbursed loan
commitments; and
(d)     OCR standard variable interest rate to be set at a level which would achieve a
minimum of 7% (or 3% real) return on average equity.
3.75   Under the foregoing scenario, the key financial performance indicators and CDB's internal
targets are shown in Table 3.8 below:
Table 3.8: CDB-PROJECTED OCR FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Actual                        Prolected
199        1994       199%       1996       1997      1998
12.8       12.9       14.1       15.4       16.7       18.0
Nt Income (USS million)                            (12.8)     (14.0)     (15.1)     (16.2)     (17.4)
Inteat coverage (times)                   3.5        3.5        3.5        3.4        3.3        3.3
(minimum 1.5 times)                                (3.5)      (3.5)      (3.3)       (3.2)      (3.2)
Rewerves to loan mtio (5) 59.1                      60.4       61.6       62.4       63.5       65.4
(minimum 30%)                                      (60.4)    (61.6)     (62.4)      (63.5)     (65.2)
Borrowing contracted as %                39.8       42.1       47.8       28.0       30.6       33.3
borrowing capacity a/
OCR loan commitment as '% of             85.9       91.4       96.4       74.1       79.0       84.5
lending limit b/
Debt/equity mtio                         0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3
Note:         Figures in parenthesis show the value of indicators under low lending scenario.
a/    Reflects projected borrowing outstanding divided by 85%  of OECD member callable capital.
b/    As noted in item (b) in para. 3.74, one of the two options, which could be exercised by the
CDB Board of Governors, is a GCI. For the purpose of financial projections, a GCI is
assumed.



- 39 -
3.76   On the basis of the projected net income, return on average equity is projected at around 7%
throughout the period. The interest coverage ratio would remain well above CDB's minimum
requirement of 1.5 times, and reserves to loan ratio would well exceed the internal minimum target of
30% throughout the projection period. CDB's debt equity ratio would remain well below unity
throughout 1998. Liquidity levels would remain comfortable.
3.77   Special Fund Resources. The financial projections for CDB's overall SFR operations were
made on the basis of the CDB's SFR lending program noted earlier and its projected sources of
concessionary finance, including the proposed IDA credit. Projected financial statements for the
years 1994 through 1998 are available in the project file. The underlying assumptions behind the
projections are outlined in Annex VIII. SFR operations are projected to generate a modest level of
income.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Evolution of Bank's Institutional Development Strateg, for CDB and Lessons Applied
4.1    Each of the Bank lending operations with CDB attempted to support, largely through the
informal technical assistance, CDB's efforts to: upgrade its operating policies and standards; improve
its procedures; and strengthen its institutional capacity. Under the first two operations, the Bank
helped CDB prepare sectoral policy papers and technical requirements, and strengthen broad
institutional capacity. Under the third CDB project, IDA assisted in reviewing and refining CDB's
financial policies on interest rate, liquidity, capital structure, etc., and, during implementation of the
project, provided CDB with assistance in dealing with arrears problems. During preparation of CDB
IV, the Bank assisted CDB in refining/strengthening its loan administration and financial/accounting
policies. Under CDB V, a Memorandum of Understanding between CDB and the Bank was signed,
defining the scope of the Bank/CDB collaborative program. Under CDB V and as groundwork for
closer collaboration in project lending, CDB formulated, with inputs from the Bank, new medium-
term strategies covering major sectors and indirect lending through financial intermediaries (FIs).
4.2    Reflecting the institutional maturity that has been achieved by CDB--including capabilities for
technical evaluation of projects, preparation of the proposed CDB VI project has focussed on the
development of more explicit sectoral and institutional strategies, and ways to monitor CDB's
performance. Among other things, the Bank helped CDB staff formulate specific eligibility criteria
for commercial banks wishing to channel CDB funds, introduce an extended role for the private
sector in managing public infrastructure and services in CDB's lending strategies for infrastructure,
and revise CDB's lending strategy for agriculture to reflect the changing environment, particularly the
phase-out of preferential trade arrangements for bananas and sugar. On the whole, the revised sector
strategies provide a good basis for developing and monitoring CDB's capacity and performance in
implementing them. The Bank would also support CDB's initiatives for undertaking: (a) a full review
of its portfolio management practices and measures to ensure effective project implementation; (b) a
comprehensive review and revision of its financial policies; and (c) its overall strategy for expanding
its lending to the private sector through financial intermediaries (FIs) and making efforts towards
expansion of its lending for human resource development, while maintaining the focus on lending for
infrastructure development. The Bank would also continue to help CDB strengthen economic and
sector work capabilities.



- 40 -
4.3    The lessons learned from past operations with CDB summarized in para. 2.21 have been
applied in the design of the proposed CDB VI project. As CDB has gained considerable experience
for handling its traditional infrastructure projects and for lending through DFCs (and rehabilitating
some DFCs), CDB's strategy for broadening/diversifying its lending operations (to include HRD) and
channels (to expand its lending to the private sector through FIs) while maintaining the focus on
lending for infrastructure is appropriate and should be supported. CDB's revised strategy on indirect
lending together with specific eligibility criteria for FIs would provide a sound framework on which
to expand its lending to the private sector through FIs. CDB's initiatives for items (a) and (b) noted
in the preceding paragraph should be supported to ensure sound institutional development of CDB.
The Bank would continue to assist CDB in strengthening its capabilities for economic and sector work
within the framework for closer collaboration between the Bank and CDB. The periodic Bank/CDB
meetings for a joint review of work programs under the collaborative program would focus on CDB's
economic and sector work, overall lending strategies and sectoral policies, constraints to their
implementation, technical assistance needs and ways to meet such needs (e.g., CDB's joint financing
of HRD projects with the Bank). Regarding the need for CDB to put more emphasis on institutional
appraisal of project executing agencies, CDB has made a sustained effort to strengthen its appraisal of
the institutional aspect (para. 3.12); during implementation of CDB VI, attention would be given to
this aspect. The implementation plan for the CDB VI project (Annex X) specifies, among other
things, the timetable for CDB's preparation of comprehensive portfolio status reports, at least once
every year.
B. Project Objectives
4.4    The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)    channel, at a lower cost than the Bank could do directly, the proposed IBRD/IDA
loan funds to eligible Bank/CDB member countries in the Commonwealth Caribbean,
consistent with the agreed sector lending strategies;
(b)    enhance the amount and scope of development and financial services offered to
common Bank/CDB borrowing member countries through better work sharing
between the Bank and CDB under the collaborative program; and
(c)    help CDB implement the agreed sectoral and institutional strategies, including its
proposed strategy to expand its lending to the private sector through financial
intermediaries and for human resource development, and to strengthen its institutional
capabilities to undertake effective portfolio management and its economic and sector
work, providing advice on appropriate sectoral strategies and policies for OECS
economic development, within the framework for closer collaboration between the
Bank and CDB.
C. Projet Description
4.5    The proposed project would provide US$20 million equivalent IBRD loan and SDR 7.8
million IDA credit to CDB in support of its lending operations in its member countries eligible to
borrow from IBRD and IDA, respectively. IBRD and IDA would inform CDB from time to time of
such eligible countries. The IDA credit and IBRD loan proceeds would be relent by CDB in support
of private as well as public sector projects of the type which the Bank/IDA normally finance, would



- 41 -
be available for lending for investment in fixed assets and working capital or for technical assistance.
The eligible sectors would be those sectors on which CDB has issued lending strategy papers
acceptable to the Bank. These sectors include: agriculture, industry, tourism, infrastructure
(transportation, water and sewerage, and power), human resource development and indirect lending
through financial intermediaries for onlending to private sectors. In consultation between the Bank
and CDB, new sectors may be added, or any of the existing sectors may be deleted.
4.6   In accordance with the updated Memorandum of Understanding, the Bank and the CDB would
jointly review, at least annually, their respective economic and sector work, and lending programs,
including projects to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed lending, and agree on ways of
collaboration in lending as well as in country economic evaluation, aid coordination and technical
assistance activities (including assistance for the OECS banana producing countries). During such
reviews, attention would also be given to CDB's manpower/staff training needs to fulfill its role under
the collaborative program and the proposed project, and to ways of further collaboration to support
CDB's initiative to expand its lending to the private sector and to strengthen its financial policy and
management.
D. Project Cost and Flnancing
4.7    CDB's pipeline of IBRD and IDA subprojects, shown in Annex XI, calls for CDB financing
of about US$48 million. Based on the financing pattern of CDB's operations, CDB's financing will
cover an estimated 70% of the total cost of subprojects. Accordingly, the project cost in terms of
total investment in IBRD and IDA subprojects would be about US$68 million. A breakdown of
estimated project costs and financing plans are as follows:
Table 4.1: ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Local      Formign        Total
Estimated Costs
Subproject codta                                    13.0        55.0          68.0
Total prject costs                                 13.0        55.0          68.0
Financing Plan
CDB:
Of which CDB's own & borrowed meourees              1.0        16.0          17.0
IBRDIIDA                                           --          31.0          31.0
CDB-cofinanciem                                     --           8.0           8.0
Subborrowers                                        12.0        _             12.0
Total                                              13.0        55.0          68.0
The proposed IBRD loan and IDA credit of about US$31.0 million equivalent would cover about 45%
of total project cost.



- 42 -
E. Project ImRlernentation
(a) Implementation Plan. Indicators and Monitoring
4.8    CDB, in collaboration with the Bank appraisal mission, prepared a draft Implementation Plan
for CDB VI (Annex X). The Plan sets out the project's scope and development impact objectives (as
per paras. 4.4-4.6 above), a strategy for pursuing the objectives (para. 4.9 below), implementation
arrangements for the proposed project (organization responsible for the project, the role of the Bank
during project implementation), the scope of implementation plans required for subprojects financed
with Bank/IDA resources, main project risks, critical factors that could affect the project's success,
specific actions required to achieve the project's development objectives and key development impact
and financial indicators. During project implementation, the Bank would: (i) review subproject
proposals to assure that they are consistent with CDB's sectoral lending strategies and its lending
policies; (ii) collaborate with CDB as provided for under the MOU and review jointly with CDB at
least annually each other's work programs; and (iii) review, on the basis of periodic reports provided
by CDB and, at least annually through supervision missions, progress in project implementation,
including a review of performance indicators.
4.9     Key development impact indicators include: (i) achievement of CDB's lending targets for the
next five years as reflected in its operational and financial projections which were summarized in
paras. 3.56 and 3.75; (ii) implementation of the subprojects financed under the proposed loan and
credit in accordance with the schedules (including disbursements), cost estimates and financing plans
set out in the CDB's appraisal reports for these subprojects; (iii) achievement of the work plans and
output agreed upon between the World Bank and CDB under the MOU; and (iv) achievement of
CDB's own internal targets for speeding up its loan disbursements and for monitoring and improving
the quality of the portfolio that will be developed by a task force. Key financial indicators include:
CDB financial targets (and/or minimum requirements), as set out in its OCR Financial Policies and
Operating Guidelines (para. 3.8), for return on equity, interest coverage, liquidity, reserves to loans,
and country exposure. CDB's annual portfolio reports and audit reports on CDB's annual financial
statements would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
In view of the breadth and frequency of monitoring/collaboration as outlined in the Implementation
Plan, no formal mid-term review is planned. The Plan, which appears to be comprehensive and
attainable, was confirmed during negotiations.
(b) IBRD Loan Features
4.10   The proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan of US$20 million equivalent would be relent by
CDB for projects in eligible countries at the standard CDB's variable interest rate, as it may be
revised from time to time under CDB's "OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" (para.
3.8). CDB does not differentiate its OCR lending terms on country grounds but on project grounds
(Annex III). The IBRD loan to CDB would have a term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, with
a fixed amortization schedule. Under the Bank's policies, this is the maximum term allowed at
present for IBRD loans in the Commonwealth Caribbean area. It would allow CDB to cofinance
projects by taking up the later maturities of loans, leaving other institutions, such as commercial
banks, to take the earlier maturities. A fixed amortization schedule, which is much simpler to
administer, would allow CDB a limited amount of rollover in cases where it lends with a shorter
maturity than the IBRD loan. In line with its Charter, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by
CDB's borrowers.



- 43 -
4.11   To have access to the IBRD loan proceeds, eligible IBRD member countries would provide
guarantees, as required under the Bank's Articles of Agreement and policy. In the case of the
independent CDB member countries, each would provide a blanket guarantee to the Bank, covering
any subloans (under the proposed IBRD loan) in the country concerned. IBRD funds are expected to
be channelled to Belize, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, and Trinidad and Tobago, and, blended with
IDA funds, to IDA eligible OECS countries. CDB wants to be able to lend part of the proposed
IBRD loan proceeds to the UK-dependent territories of Anguilla, Montserrat, and the Turks and
Caicos Islands. Under the Bank's first and second CDB projects, some UK-dependent territories (the
British Virgin Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands, Montserrat and Cayman Islands) received IBRD
loan funds through CDB-all with UK Govermnent guarantees. The UK required that the
requirements of the Colonial Loans Act be complied with and that parallel legislation be enacted in
each territory concerned, assuring repayment to the UK in the event that the UK is called upon to
fulfill its guarantee obligation to the Bank. A similar procedure would be followed in the case of
CDB's use of a part of the proposed IBRD loan proceeds in a UK-dependent territory. For regional
projects, guarantees from the countries in whose territories the project is located would be required.
A guarantee satisfactory to the Bank from each eligible country would be a condition of first
disbursement in respect of the subloans in each country (including the UK-dependent territories).
Each guarantee would cover disbursements in respect of all subloans in the country in question.
4.12   Because of the time required for CDB to appraise and process subprojects through its Board
approval and for Bank's review and approval of onlending agreements, and frequent delays in
obtaining the country guarantees required by the Bank, there have been considerable delays in the
commitment and disbursement of funds under the Bank's previous global line-of-credit type loans.
Under CDB I, II, III, and V projects, the Bank, therefore, agreed to charge the commitment fee from
the date it authorized each subloan. This procedure would be continued under the proposed loan.
(c) The IDA Credit Features
4.13  The proposed IDA credit of SDR 7.8 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) would be part of
CDB's SFR (soft loan) operations. As such, CDB would not bear the credit risk. Funds from the
IDA credit, segregated from CDB's other assets and liabilities, would be channeled by CDB through
a special fund created for this purpose and under the terms and conditions applicable to IDA credits.
As under the Bank's second, third and fifth CDB projects, CDB would assign to IDA its rights under
agreements entered into for the financing of subloans made from IDA resources, so that IDA would,
in respect of the credit funds, have the recourse available against the country as when it lends
directly. This approach would be basically equivalent to a direct IDA credit to the country receiving
it. The governments would use or pass on the proceeds on commercial terms to each subproject so
that the benefit of IDA concessionary terms would accrue to the governments. The maturity of the
IDA credit to CDB would be 40 years. However, eligible subborrower countries in the OECS would
be required to repay over 35 years to CDB which, in turn, would repay the credit to IDA for the
amounts collected from its subborrowers. If IDA resources are lent to Guyana it would be required
to repay over 40 years to CDB. IDA subloans would be denominated in SDR and the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the subborrower countries.
4.14   As under CDB II (Credit 960-CRG), CDB III (Credit 1364-CRG), and CDB V (Credit 2135-
CRG), IDA would pay a fee to CDB to cover its costs of administering IDA subloans which would be
relent to governments on IDA terms. It has been agreed that CDB's fee under CDB VI would be
US$385,000 in total, to be paid in five equal annual installments (i.e., US$77,000 per year)



- 44 -
commencing upon the effective date of the proposed credit. The amount to be paid under CDB VI is
lower by US$275,000 than under CDB V. CDB's cost per lending operation is considerably lower
than IDA's because of its relatively lower manpower costs, its proximity to its borrowers, the
availability of technical assistance financed from bilateral sources, and the projects it finances are
generally less complex and are, thus, more rapidly processed. IDA would receive the standard
service charge from CDB which would collect from beneficiary subborrowers. The commitment fee
will accrue as indicated in para. 4.12.
(d) Subprojects/Subloans
4.15   CDB would relend the proposed loan and credit proceeds in sectors which will make a
maximum impact on development in the beneficiary countries and in the Caribbean region as a whole.
As part of the Collaborative Program, the Bank and CDB have harmonized their sector lending
strategies and will continue to exchange views on them as they evolve over time. They have also
jointly reviewed their lending programs and will continue to do so on a regular basis. Within the
framework of its lending strategy, CDB's selection of subprojects would be in accordance with
criteria set out in its Policies and Procedures Manual. In cases where there is conflict between
specific criteria and/or policies set forth in its manual and those set forth in its lending strategy
papers, CDB will apply the latter unless the manual is more up-to-date. In relending the IBRD/IDA
loan proceeds in eligible OECS countries, CDB will set the IBRD portion of the blend not less than
50% for every (national and regional) subproject. To secure a blending of at least 50 percent IBRD
funds in the OECS countries eligible for receiving a blend of IBRD/IDA funds, at least US$7.15
million of the proposed loan would be reserved for the OECS subborrowers (during the first three
years from the loan effectiveness date).
4.16   No prior approval by IBRD or IDA of CDB's subprojects under the proposed loan/credit
would be required (except that subloans need to be authorized for disbursement). CDB would send to
IBRD/IDA for review/comment: (i) a project description; and (ii) an appraisal report on all
subprojects expected to be financed with IBRD/IDA loan proceeds. Informally, CDB would also send
to IBRDJIDA, for comment, selected non-IBRD/IDA subprojects in sectors in which CDB has limited
lending experience. During project preparation, CDB agreed that it would send to IBRD/IDA
informally (i) draft project documents cleared by the relevant Deputy Director of CDB's Project
Department; and about 10-15 days later, formally (ii) draft project documents cleared by the Director
of the Project Department for submission to CDB's Loan Committee. IBRD/IDA would normally
respond within seven working days after receipt of CDB's pre-Loan Committee draft project
documents. This arrangement was confirmed during negotiations.
4.17  IBRD/IDA lending would cover CDB subloan commitments from September 1994 through
August 1998. CDB would not use more than 35% of the proposed loan and the credit (separately) in
any one eligible country, except in special circumstances where the Bank may agree otherwise. Also,
CDB would not use funds from the proposed loan and the credit to cofinance IBRD/IDA projects,
unless the Bank agrees otherwise.
(e) Disbursements
4.18   IBRD and IDA funds would be used to reimburse CDB up to 70% of subproject costs in
Trinidad and Tobago (Group I country, see Annex III for country grouping used by CDB) and up to
80% in Belize, OECS, and Jamaica (Group III countries) and Guyana (Group IV country). These



- 45 -
percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange costs of subprojects in these groups of countries.
CDB may elect, before its first withdrawal for any subloan, to receive financing for the actual foreign
exchange component of total project cost. Both fixed assets and permanent working capital or
services would be eligible for financing. Disbursements of IBRD/IDA funds for subproject in the
OECS countries eligible for receiving a blend of IBRD/IDA funds would be made, to the extent
possible, on a pari-passu basis, but always reflecting the IBRD portion of the blend not less than
50%. Disbursements would be made against full documentation. These arrangements were
confirmed at negotiations. A schedule of estimated disbursement is given for the loan and credit in
Annex IX.
4.19   The Bank/IDA would reimburse CDB for expenditures on eligible subprojects incurred no
more than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank/IDA receives the relevant information (para.
4.16) in connection with the request for authorization of a subloan. The commitment period for both
the IBRD loan and the IDA credit would be about 48 months from the time the loan/credit is expected
be signed. Thus, the latest date for subloan submission would be September 30, 1998, and the
closing date for disbursement would be December 31, 2002.
(f) Procurement
4.20   For purposes of the proposed IBRD/IDA lending, proposed procurement arrangements are set
forth in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Public Sector                             Private Sector    l
Civil Works              adks nd Good
1.    ICB under       Above US$1.5        Above US$150,000      Above US$3 million
Bank           million
Guidelines
2.    Local/regional   Between US$1.5      Between US$150,000   Below US$3 million,
competitive    million &            & US$25,000          following Standard
bidding        US$150,000                                 Commercial Practice
3.    Local/Regional  Below US$150,000    Below US$25,000
Shopping
International competitive bidding (ICB) would be done in accordance with Bank guidelines, with
notification of local (Barbados-based) representatives of the Bank's member countries, and Taiwan,
China, and international advertising using Bank standard bidding documents. Local/regional
competitive bidding would be based upon competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to CDB and
IBRD/IDA with local and regional advertising and notification of representatives of the
aforementioned governments and using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank Group
(e.g., standard bidding documents removing non-applicable clauses such as preferences). Public
sector procurement costing less than US$150,000 for civil works would be based on price quotations
from at least three qualified contractors, including at least one regional contractor. Public sector
procurement costing less than US$25,000 for goods, and contracts for works and goods by private



- 46 -
borrowers (including subborrowers of local Fls) costing less than US$3 million would be based on
standard commercial practice requiring price quotations from at least three suppliers. For proprietary
equipment or where standardization and maintenance considerations are important, or in other cases
as may be agreed from time to time, CDB may, in consultation with the Bank, either resort to direct
contracting or follow Limited International Bidding, all following Bank guidelines. In such cases no
advertising is required, a limited number of bidders would be invited to bid and no preference would
be granted. Where contracts are financed jointly with Bank and CDB resources, CDB would follow
IBRD/IDA guidelines, subject to approval of CDB's Board of Directors on a case-by-case basis. The
Bank would not require prior review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
for goods and civil works, which have been reviewed by CDB. Procurement of consulting services
using IBRD/IDA funds would be in accordance with IBRD/IDA guidelines for hiring consultants.
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more and US$30,000 or more, respectively, of IBRD/IDA funds would require prior
review and approval of IBRD/IDA, but the Bank would review, in any event, the terms of reference
for all consulting contracts financed under the loan or credit, single source selection of firms, and
assignments of a critical nature. As a condition of effectiveness for loan and credit agreements, CDB
will develop and issue standard bidding documents to be used for regional or local bidding.
(g) Environmental Assessments
4.21   CDB adopted environmental guidelines in March 1990 and an environmental policy paper in
October 1993. The existing guidelines are considered by the Bank to be generally adequate but need
to be updated and amplified. The Bank has provided CDB with various policy documents which
provide guidance on the extent of negative environmental or social impacts permissible under projects
and the circumstances under which specific types of mitigatory measures are required. CDB has
agreed to revise its environmental guidelines, taking into account the policy documents provided by
the Bank and other multilateral agencies (e.g., UNDP). The progress made by CDB in revising its
guidelines was reviewed during loan negotiations. Recently, CDB established a separate Poverty
Reduction and Environmental Unit in the Social Development Division of its Projects Department to
assume responsibility for its poverty and environmental work and to provide related advice. Staff
complement in this unit working on environmental issues remains at two, one CDB permanent staff
and one financed from the technical assistance program. CDB plans to complement these staff
resources with short term consultancy services as required. All the subprojects financed by CDB
under the ongoing CDB V operation included environmental assessments (EA). Bank's environmental
staff reviewed the quality of EA work by CDB on all the subprojects submitted by CDB under CDB
V and found it satisfactory with few exceptions where the Bank raised certain queries and made some
suggestions. CDB adequately dealt with queries and comments made by Bank environmental staff. A
summary assessment of the experience on CDB's handling of environmental issues on subprojects
financed under CDB V is available in the project file. As a condition of effectiveness for loan and
credit agreements, CDB will adopt revised/amplified Environmental Guidelines, taking into account
the Bank's comments on existing Guidelines. As under CDB V, CDB would undertake environmental
impact assessment of all subprojects to be financed under the proposed CDB VI in accordance with
the guidelines acceptable to the Bank. In collaboration with CIDA, CDB held a two week training
workshop in 1992 for its staff and 15 participants from BMCs, on the application of environmental
procedures and the use of environmental impact assessments. CDB together with CIDA plans to hold
another workshop in 1994.



- 47 -
F. Poverty Alleviation
4.22   As indicated in para. 2.24(b) on aid coordination under the MOU, CDB will be responsible
for Country Poverty Assessment for the OECS countries and is developing a methodology and
engaging staff to carry them out. While the proposed CDB VI project is not specifically designed to
make a significant contribution toward poverty alleviation, those subprojects to be supported under the
proposed loan and credit would generate a considerable number of jobs during their implementation.
Potential subprojects under CDB VI include: (a) four economic diversification projects (including
those in the OECS Banana growing countries) which could help the rural poor to diversify into
alternative viable economic activities; (b) a multi-sector project which could help the poor in terms of
job opportunity or improved urban infrastructure; (c) a sewerage project which could help improve
the health of the poor; (d) a road improvement and maintenance project and a bridge rehabilitation
project which could help improve the access of the poor to economic activities; and (e) a food
processing zone which could create employment opportunities.
G. Benefits and Risks
4.23   The Bank's channeling of its funds to the Commonwealth Caribbean member states through
CDB has clear advantages for all the parties concerned. Benefits for member states would be
increased access to development finance and services which would have been more limited if the
comparative advantages of both institutions were not brought together. Because of its lower costs of
operations, CDB can make a larger number of loans in the region, whereas the Bank would focus on
fewer but strategic loans/credits, as well as policy advice and support for reforms. By lending
through CDB, the Bank will have greater country/sector coverage and economic impact than if it tried
to make loans/credits directly. With the Bank's support, CDB would continue to gain strength, as a
major development institution in the Commonwealth Caribbean, and would progressively be able to
take over certain Bank roles in the region. This would enable the Bank to redirect its resources
within the Commonwealth Caribbean for maximum developmental impact. The proposed project
would be instrumental for further solidifying strategic alliance between the Bank and CDB for the
benefit of their common member states.
4.24   There are four main risks. First, the weak economic base of the region and its susceptibility
to external shocks (e.g., significant changes in world commodity prices and the reduction in
preferential trade arrangements for banana and sugar) could slow the rate of subloan commitments.
CDB's subproject pipeline indicates, however, that the projected levels of lending are likely to be
achieved. Potential subprojects include projects designed to help OECS banana growing countries
diversify into alternative viable economic activities. Second, significant changes in the
macroeconomic situation of certain borrowing member countries could adversely affect their ability to
provide counterpart funds for subproject execution. In part to help manage this risk, CDB will
continue to prepare public sector investment programs for the OECS countries and Belize, and will
make annual reviews of its borrowing member states' public sector expenditures. Third, reduced
revenues from trade taxes could cause fiscal problems, a shortage of counterpart funds and slow
subproject execution unless adequately compensated by sound new revenue measures. The Bank and
CDB will, in their policy dialogue with member countries, provide advice on fiscal policy to help
address this risk. Fourth, the multi-year comprehensive BanklCDB collaborative program, which
requires intensive efforts to make it work smoothly, may not be maintained. However, based on a
successful experience so far, both the Bank and CDB expect that collaboration will continue in a
smooth manner.



- 48 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
5.1    The following items were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations:
(a)    project objectives (para. 4.4) and description (paras. 4.5-4.6);
(b)    project costs and financing (para. 4.7); and
(c)    project implementation plan (paras. 4.8-4.9 and Annex X).
5.2    During negotiations, agreement was reached with CDB on the following onlending terms and
conditions:
(a)    eligible countries and sectors - the Bank would inform CDB from time to time of the
Bank/CDB member countries which are eligible to borrow under the proposed loan
and credit. CDB's relending of the proposed loan and credit proceeds would be
limited to sectors in which the Bank itself lends and on which CDB has issued lending
strategy papers acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5);
(b)   lending terms and conditions to CDB of the IBRD loan and the IDA credit (paras.
4.10-4.12 and 4.13, respectively), which include the requirements that: (i)
governmental guarantees regarding IBRD lending would be a condition of first
disbursement of the first subloan in each country (para. 4.11); and (ii) CDB would
assign to IDA its rights under subloans to be funded out of the IDA credit proceeds
(para. 4.13);
(c)   terms and conditions of CDB's onlending of the IBRD loan and the IDA credit
proceeds for suitable subprojects in eligible countries (paras. 4.15 and 4.16)-(i) In
relending the IBRD/IDA loan proceeds in OECS countries eligible for receiving a
blend of IBRD/IDA funds, CDB would blend for each project IBRD and IDA funds
for all (national and regional) projects with IBRD portions of the blend not less than
50%; (ii) CDB would assign to IDA its rights under subloans to be funded out the
IDA credit proceeds; (iii) CDB would not use more than 35% of the loan/credit
proceeds in any one member country or a UK-dependent territory, unless the Bank
agrees otherwise; US$7.15 million of the proposed IBRD loan would be reserved for
the OECS subborrowers during the first three years from the loans effectiveness date;
and (iv) CDB would not cofinance IBRD/IDA financed projects with the proceeds of
the proposed IBRD loan or IDA credit, unless the Bank agrees otherwise (para. 4.17);
(d)    arrangements for subproject processing (paras. 4.15 and 4.16)--(i) within the
framework of its sector strategy, CDB would finance subprojects in
accordance with its "Operational Policies and Procedures Manual", with
adherence to its "OCR Financial Policies and Operating Guidelines" neither of
which would be changed without Bank's acquiescence (para. 3.9); and (ii) for
all projects to be financed by CDB out of the proposed IBRD and IDA



- 49 -
lending, CDB would send to the Bank in due time for its review/comment, a
project description and an appraisal report;
(e)    compensation for CDB's administrative costs in relending IDA credit proceeds
in eligible countries on IDA terms (para. 4.14);
(f)   the IBRD and IDA commitment fee would accrue from the date of the Bank's
authorization of each subproject for withdrawals under loan/credit (para.
4.12); and
(g)    procurement (para. 4.20), disbursements (paras. 4.18-4.19) and environmental
assessment (para. 4.21).
5.3    Conditions of loan/credit effectiveness, agreed upon during negotiations, are:
(a)    CDB's issuance of standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be used for regional or local bidding (para. 4.20); and
(b)    CDB's adoption of revised/amplified Environmental Guidelines, satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.21);
5.4   In addition, minutes of negotiation recorded an understanding reached with CDB on the
following:
(a)    steps required for making operative the updated "Memorandum of
Understanding" for the Bank/CDB collaborative program; and
(b)    CDB's intention to: (i) keep the Bank informed of results of the current work of a
task force on portfolio management and its plans for implementing new measures
(paras. 3.13 and 3.72); and (ii) submit to the Bank its annual portfolio status reports
no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
B. Recommendation
5.5    The proposed project would be suitable for an IBRD loan of US$20 million equivalent and an
IDA credit of SDR 7.8 million (US$11.0 million) on terms and conditions listed in the preceding
paragraphs.



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Basic Indicators for Selected CARICOM Countries
% Share of Exports 1991
1985-92
Annual
GNP Per                            Real
Area     Capita  Population     GNP       GNP
(sq     (Atlas    ('000)    (USS m)   Growth                         Alumina/
mile)     1992)     1992        1992   Rate (%)  Tourism    Sugar       Bauxite  Banana   Manufacture   Petroleum
Antigua and Barbuda                  170      4,870        81        395         1.1     78.20    -            -        -             2.00        -
Barbados                             166      6,530       259       1,693       0.6      52.20    3.10         -        -            14.00        -
Belize                             8,866      2,210       200        442        6.3      14.30   17.50         -       23.60          1.50        -
Dominica                             293      2,520        72         181       5.1       17.70    -           -       33.30          n.a.        -       0
Grenada                              134      2,310        91         210       4.4      65.20    -            -        3.40          3.40        -
Guyana                            83,000        330       806        268       -5.4        -     29.40       27.00      -             -           -
Jamaica                             4,411     1,340      2,394      3,216        2.9     32.00    3.90        29.10    20.00         15.50         -
St. Kitts and Nevis                  105      3,990        42         181       5.3      61.20   12.80         -        -            26.40        -
St. Lucia                            241      2,900       156        453        5.2      46.20    -            -       20.30          n.a.        -
St. Vincent and the Grenadines       152      1,990       109         217       4.7      23.30    -            -       27.10          n.a.         -
Trinidad and Tobago                 1,980     4,995      1,268       4,995      -3.0      n.a.    1.60         -        -            11.00       66.80
Other LAC Countries
Hati                               14,600       370      6,603       3,471     -0.60     21.60    0.90         -        -            46.30        -
Suriname                           63,050     3,610       457        1,649     -2.20       -       -          67.00     1.00          1.00
n.a. = not available
-12
Oo
_ ~



-51-                              A~NNEXHI
Page 1 of 5
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
THE CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AND THE WORLD BANK
ON CLOSER COLLABORATION TO PROMOTE
DEVELOPMENT IN THE CARIBBEAN
Objectives
1.    Since the Caribbean Development Bank's (CDB) inception in 1970, the World Bank/IDA (WB)
and CDB have developed close relations, encompassing the areas of the WB's lending and technical
assistance to CDB, co-financing of projects, aid coordination, economic and sector work and technical
assistance to common member states. With the aim of improving the effectiveness of their aid and
increasing the efficiency of their operations in the Caribbean region, CDB and WB have intensified their
collaboration and CDB will progressively complement WB roles in the Caribbean region in areas where
CDB has comparative advantage over the WB. This will enable the WB to redirect its resources within
the Commonwealth Caribbean for policy advice, support of policy reforms and other development work,
including those areas of project lending where it has a comparative advantage. In support of this process,
the WB will assist CDB to broaden the scope and improve the effectiveness of its services to common
member states over a three to five-year period. As before, the WB will look to CDB as its intermediary
for development assistance in the Caribbean, in addition to its direct lending to member states. This
Memorandum of Understanding lists the modalities of closer collaboration between CDB and the WB
along the foregoing lines.
Collaboration in Economic/Sector Work
2.    CDB and the WB, in consultation with each other, will define their broad economic development
objectives in each of their common member countries, as well as in the Caribbean region as a whole,
discuss and agree, wherever possible, on compatible strategies to attain these objectives and inter-relate
their programs (extending over country economic reporting, economic surveys, sector studies, etc.). To
facilitate the program implementation and assist CDB's economic staff to gain experience, short-term staff
secondments and participation in each other's missions will be agreed between CDB and the WB on an
ad hoc basis. To improve the quality of CDB's economic work, CDB intends to send to the WB some
samples of CDB's economic work, for the WB to review and comment.
3.    For the next two-year period, the following general guidelines will apply to CDB and the WB
collaboration in economic work:
(a)    CDB will handle all country economic work in the United Kingdom (UK) dependent
territories;
(b)    CDB will prepare public sector investment programs (PSIPs) for all the UK dependent
territories, the OECS countries and Belize (the preparation schedules will be determined
by the beneficiary government's timing of their budget preparation activities);
(c)    The WB will handle, primarily, all economic work on the MDCs (CDB may participate
in the economic work in Guyana), and will continue to prepare periodically economic
memoranda on Belize and the OECS countries until this work can be gradually assumed
by CDB, as was done in 1992 for St. Lucia. Until then, CDB will work with the WB
in the preparation of economic memoranda on Belize and the OECS countries (excluding



- 52 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
Montserrat). In participating in such assignments, the role of CDB staff will be clearly
identified. Such economic memoranda will deal with topics previously agreed between
the WB and CDB, pertaining to specific development issues for Belize and the OECS
countries, including the relevancy of Government policies for economic management and
sectoral development. Beginning in 1995, CDB will take the lead in assisting OECS
countries to prepare Medium-Term Framework Papers. CDB will also submit two-page
summaries of its economic reports on Belize and the OECS countries for the years in
which the WB reports are not prepared (on the basis of a mutually agreed program);
(d)    Special studies, sector reports on the member countries' economies and the Caribbean
Region as a whole, which either agency may launch, will be planned in consultation
between respective CDB and WB economic staff to determine the scope for collaboration;
and
(e)    To provide for a full exchange of information between staff members of the two
institutions, the WB will, prior to each economic/sector mission, notify CDB of the
arrangements and send it a copy of the Initiating Memorandum, invite CDB to participate
in the review of the draft report and to participate in the discussion of the draft final
Report with the Government.
4.    A two-year program for the CDB/WB economic/sector work in the Caribbean Region, which
reflects the preceding paragraph, has been prepared. The WB and CDB will inform each other
periodically on changes they make in their programs and will review them jointly at suitable intervals.
Nevertheless, CDB reserves the right (and recognizes the responsibility) to respond to requests, frequently
with short notice, from its borrowing countries for policy advice on various development issues.
Aid Coordination
5.    For the next two-year period, the following guidelines will apply to the CDB/WB collaboration
in this area:
(a)    CDB will be responsible for the preparation of the necessary CGCED documents
(including country briefs, contribution to the WB umbrella report) on the Uk dependent
territories and will chair the CGCED subgroup meetings on these territories (the meetings
wIll normally coincide with CDB's Annual Meetings);
(b)    CDB will, on an ad hoc basis, chair meetings of Barbados-based donor representatives
to discuss the problems encountered in the implementation of projects financed by such
donors (the WB may participate);
(c)    The WB will be responsible for the national Environmental Action Plans which are
expected to be completed in time for the CGCED meeting in June 1994. CDB will be
responsible for national Poverty Assessments with two pilot assessments planned for
completion by the end of 1993; and
(d)    The WB will continue to lead in handling the CGCED activities which remain outside the
scope of the foregoing subparagraphs. However, well before a CGCED meeting, the WB
and CDB will confer on any emerging new issues and agree on any complementary
activities for either of them to undertake.



- 53 -                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
6.    Details regarding CDB and the WB activities in support of the 1994-96 CGCED meetings will
be reviewed and programmed. Thereafter, any changes in the program will be agreed in consultation
between the two agencies in due time.
AdjustmentlProgram Lending
7.    While CDB intends to have independent lending activity in this area (such as in the UK dependent
territories), it is understood that in most cases during the next two-year period CDB will finance
adjustment/program lending operations in association with the WB. For operations in which CDB wants
to participate, the WB and CDB staff will agree, at the beginning of the project processing cycle, on areas
for CDB's processing input, as well as on its financial contribution (along general lines of the WB/CDB
joint financing arrangements for jointly financed investment projects (refer to paragraph 12 below).
8.    Specific adjustment/program lending operations which the WB and CDB will jointly finance
during the next two-year period will be programmed. Thereafter, each agency will communicate to the
other any changes made in the schedule and they will jointly review it at suitable intervals.
Investment Projects
9.    CDB will increase its investment project processing capabilities in conventional sectors with a
view to complementing progressively some of the WB's functions in those areas where CDB has
comparative advantage over the WB. This will enable the WB to redirect its resources as stated in
paragraph 1 above. In expanding its role in the investment project area, CDB wants to guard against a
situation under which some common Caribbean member countries may lose entirely their WB presence,
or (on a global basis) the flow of the WB's funds to these common member countries may be diminished.
On the latter point, CDB is concerned about the WB's "graduation' policies under which a number of
common Caribbean member countries have lost, or will lose before long, their eligibility for IBRD or
IDA borrowing. Also, CDB would like Belize treated by the WB as an OECS country and not excluded
from IDA lending. CDB intends to air its views on these matters to the WB's representatives on the
occasion of future consultations between the two agencies.
10.   As firm groundwork for their intensified collaboration in investment project lending, CDB and
the WB recognize the need for harmonization (as far as possible) of their sectoral development strategies
and lending policies. It is agreed that joint work towards that end will proceed on the basis of a program
to be agreed between them.
11.   For the next two-year period, the following guidelines will apply to the CDBIWB collaboration
in processing of investment projects in the caribbean region:
(a)    within limits of its institutional capabilities, CDB will process for its lending all
investment projects in the UK dependent territories;
(b)   for investment projects in the OECS countries and Belize, the Bank Group will continue
to finance projects where it has comparative advantage, i.e.:
(i)  the project concerned is in a sector for which the CDB has no processing
capability (such as in health, nutrition and population sectors at present), or is not
yet fully equipped to process (such as in forestry); and



- 54 -                            ANNEXHI
Page 4 of 5
(ii)   the project concerned is too large and complicated for CDB to handle alone, or
CDB, at that time, has reached the limit of its lending authorization for the
borrowing country concerned.
In cases listed in (i) and (ii) above, CDB may seek joint financing with the WB; and
(c)   for investment project lending in the common Caribbean member countries outside the
UK dependent territories and the OECS and Belize, CDB and the WB will plan their
lending operations in consultation with each other (normally through annual or more
frequent programming review), singling out projects which CDB and the WB may jointly
finance. They will also determine, on an ad hoc basis, which agency will lead the project
processing work for such a jointly financed project. Outside the area of jointly financed
projects each agency will continue to program its lending activity alone, or in association
with other financiers.
12.   For projects to be jointly financed by CDB and the WB, the Task Managers in both institutions,
well at the beginning of the project processing cycle, will coordinate their respective loan processing
schedules so that the agreed lead agency will carry out (with limited participation from the other agency,
such as staff with experience which the lead agency may be lacking) the project preparation and appraisal
work, together with a project appraisal report for use by both agencies. Ideally, loan/credit negotiations
and the Board presentations by CDB and the WB should be harmonized, so that these will take place
approximately at the same time. Occasionally, there may be practical difficulties to attain this objective
(difference of the WB and the CDB fiscal years may complicate planning). However, once a draft
appraisal report is produced, with certain precautions (such as appropriate effectiveness and cross-default
clauses), each agency may proceed at its own pace. It is recognized that it would be premature at this
stage to set forth hard and fast rules on how to inter-relate CDB and the WB internal loan processing
actions to enable each agency to attain simultaneously its processing target. Guidelines on this would be
agreed on after CDB and the WB have had sufficient experience with joint processing of several
investment projects.
13.   After CDB and WB approval of loans/credits for a jointly financed project, it will normally be
the lead agency's task to supervise the project, with limited participation of staff from the other agency.
Present CDB policies require supervision of a CDB-financed project during the life of a CDB loan made
for its financing. Thus, in the case of a jointly financed project supervised by the WB, the WB
supervision role will normally cease after such a project is completed, leaving CDB to undertake
supervision work as it will deem necessary under its policies.
14.   A schedule of specific investment project lending operations by CDB and the WB during the next
two-year period has been prepared. The two agencies will inform each other of changes they made in
their schedules and review the combined schedules at suitable intervals.
Technical Assistanc
15.   The WB and CDB extend considerable amounts of technical assistance to their member states in
the Caribbean through their project lending operations. Their close collaboration in the lending area will
increase the scope for planning and harmonizing their project or program-related technical assistance.
Outside the project lending area, CDB and the WB will program their non-project related technical
assistance in consultation with each other, to avoid duplication of effort and to be able to devise methods
to increase effectiveness of their aid.



-55-                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Procedures
16.   It is recognized that closer collaboration between CDB and the WB on a broad front of activities,
as listed above, calls for full exchange of information and documents, joint programming effort and
coordinated execution of programs, involving CDB's and the WB's managers in charge of economic and
sector work, aid coordination, adjustment/investment lending and technical assistance. Informal contacts
at all levels will be required. Two or three-year rolling work programs (referred to in paragraphs 4, 6,
8 and 14) will be prepared and jointly reviewed at least once every year, and more frequently if
conditions require it.






- 56-                                               Annex III
Page I of I
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CDB: Principal Loan Terms and Conditions
(as of December31, 1993)
Ordinary Resources                  Special Resources
Interest Rate                       Variable interest rate reviewed        -
annually (currently 7.5%)
Group I Countries                           -                           5.00%
Group II Countries                          -                           4.00%
Group 111 Countries                         -                           2.00%
Group IV Countries                          -                           2.00%
Upper Loan Limits
LDC Government and Guyana           80% of project cost                 90% of project cost
MDC Governments                     70% of project cost                 80% of project cost
Private Sector                      40% of project cost
subject to an acceptable
debt/equity ratio
Lower Loan Limits                   US$750,000                          US$750,000
Commitment Fee                      1% p.a. on undisbursed balance 60        -
days after Loan Agreement signed
Front-end Fee                       0% on Public Sector Loans
1% on Private Sector Loans
Term and Grace Period
Grace Period                       Up to 5 years
Term after grace period            10-15 years
(industry & tourism projects)      (15-18 years)
Group I Countries                           -                           20 years including 5 years grace
Group 1I Countries                          -                           30 years including 7 years grace
Group III Countries                         -                           40 years including 10 years grace
Group IV Countries                          -                           40 years including 10 years grace
Exchanee Risk                       Bome by borrower or guarantor       Bome by borrower or guarantor
Group 1  Bahamas, Barbados, Cayman Islands, Trinidad & Tobago
Group 1I Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, and British Virgin Islands
Group III: oECS, Belize, Jamaica, Turks & Caicos Islands
Group IV: Guyana






- 57 -                                   Annex IV
Table I
Page 1 of 1
Caribbean Development Bank
Sixth Development Bank Project
Distribution of Loans Aporoved (Net)
by Sector and by Fund (1970-1993)
(US$'000)
Ordinary Venezuelan    Special
Capital      Trust      Fund
Sector                               Resources       Funds Resources        Total % of Value
griculture, Forestry, & Fishing        19,270           0     64,436     83,706       7.8%
Mining & Quarrying                      34,500           0      4,309     38,809       3.6%
Manufacturing                           36,551       2,205     85,159    123,915      11.6%
Tourism                                  21,036      4,725      3,890     29,651       2.8%
Transport & Communication               128,959          0    149,902    278,861      26.0%
Power, Energy, & Water                  43,478       3,248     64,078    110,804      10.3%
Other Infrastructure a)                   3,720          0     11,500     15,220       1.4%
Social & Personal Services               6,438           0     48,916     55,354       5.2%
Other Multi-Sector b)                     7,145          0     70,697     77,842       7.3%
Financing & Distribution Multi-Sector
Agricultural Credits                  48,623       4,760     38,146     91,529       8.5%
Manufacturing Credits                 59,086       2,727     35,656     97,469       9.1%
Housing Finance                       26,001           0     19,509     45,510       4.2%
Education Finance                      1,700           0     21,811     23,511       2.2%
TOTAL                                  436,507      17,665    618,009  1,072,181     100.0%
a) Sea Defense
b) Disaster Relief, Structural Adjustment, Distributive Trade



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristks of Subloaos Made in the Fwst ODeration
Interest                Economic return        Finan-               Repay-
Amount        to final        I                 Recal-         cial    Grace       ment
Country            (US$ 000)       borrower   financing   SAR         culated      return   perLod    period        Sector
OCR Lending
Wickham's Cay              BVI                      400           8.50         65        10       same           12        5.0      12.0       Tourism
Upper Dem rara             Guyana                 5,100           9.00         70        10       same            -       10.0      15.0       Road/Agri.
AIRTAC                     Turks & Caicos           400           9.00         80         -       neg            16        2.0       8.0       Transport
Cruise ship pier           Jamaica                  600           8.50         65        65       higher          -        3.0      15.0       Transport
2nd Ind. estate            Barbados               2,600           9.00         65        65       positive        -       5.0       15.0       Industry
Agri. credit               Guyana                 1,500           8.00         65a        -       -               -        5.0      16.0       Agri. DFC
Agri.-ind. credit          Jamaica                3,600           7.25         70         -       -               -        3.0      12.0       Agri./Ind. DFC
Agri.-ind. credit          Baham-s                2,300           8.50         70a        -       -               -        4.0       8.0       Agri./Ind. DFC
Agri.-ind. credit          Belize                   500           8.00         80a        -       -               -        5.0      15.0       Agri./Ind. DFC
Third Wlndov Lending                                                                                                                                                  00
Mortgage finance           St. Lucia                300                                                                                        DFC
Electricity                Montserrat               700           5.50         80        19       same           19       3.5       18.5       Power
Port                       St. KItts              1,000           5.50         90         8      neg              6        3.5      18.5       Transport
Sugar                      Antigua                1,000           5.50         75        22      nag             15       3.5       18.5       Agriculture
aI Percent of subloan made by DFC.
m  3:



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (CDB)
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteristics of Subloans Made in the Second Oneration
Inter-st    X of    Eco-    Finan-              Repay-
Amount     to final      CDB   nomic      cial    Graco      went
Country           (USn'-6W)    borrower    loan   return   return   period   period    Sector
OCR Lending
Flood damage            Jamaica              1,66            9.60      26      -                 6.0       16      Transport
Mortgage finance        Jamaica              3,6W0          10.66      32      -         -       6.0       12      Housing
Water supply            Jamaica              3,600           9.00    106      30        21       S.0       1S      Water supply
Soals A packaging       Guyana               2,6U0          16.56      26     34        14       4.0       11      Industry
Sugar mill              Barbados             3,WW6          10.50      22     19         lb      1.5       12      Agroindustry
Clay products           Barbados             1,16          io.56      46     26        16b      2.0       10      Industry
Industry credit         Bahamas              2,666    10.5-12.00       88      -                 5.6       1S      Agri./Ind.
Electricity             St. Vincent            700           9.00      23     12         -       3.0       15      Enorgy
Electricity             St. Lucia            2,166          10.50      82      -         -       4.0       16      Energy
Airport                 Cayman Islands       4.000          10.50      46     20        16       3.0       15      Transport
23,666
IDA Credit
DFC equity              Antigua                86       9.0-11.560     S       -         _       2.6       12      Agri./Ind.
Port                    Dominica             3,066           1.00    100       -         -      10.0       40      Transport
Water supply            Grenada                766 W.00                45     17         3       5.0       20      Water
DFC equity              Dominica              3go       9.0-12.00      23      -         -       2.0       12      Agri./Ind.
DFC equity              St. Lucia              466      9.0-12.00      20      -         -       2.0       12      Agri./Ind.
Feeder roads            St. Kitts            1,115           0.75      80     11         -      10.0       40      Agri./Transport
Eloctricitya            St. Vincent          1.685           9.66      58     12         -       3.0       15      Energy
8,606
/  Includes USSI million EEC Special Action Credit.                                                                                        o  
/ After tax.                                                                                                                                     C



CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Characteistics of Subloans Made in the Third Onerstion (IDA Credit 1364-CRB)
Intermst rate    Grace Period    Repayment
IDA Subloan or Amount        to Brrower      (Yra)         Period        Economic Rate of Return         PFutect Completion Date
-    USSO  000                  (%)                         (Yrn)
Country          Approved'       Disbursed'                                                Appraiat        Actual'      Appraisal         Actual
Road Reconutruction        Grenada             1,447        1,738             0.75           8'            40            32.0          23.0          06/85            11/86
(SDR 1.344     (SDR 1.329
T_million)   million)
3rd Feeder roads           Dominica            2,032        1,984             0.75            5            40            21.0          19.0          12/S7            06/89
(SDR 1.887     (SDR 1.518
million)     million)
Feeder roads              St. Vincent          1,954s       1,932             0.75            5            40            24.0          25.0          12/87            01/89
(SDR 1.876     (SDR 1.478
nmillion)    million)       _     _                                                                                                     O
Water supply               St. Lucia           1,500        1,438             0.75            5            40            14.2           1.0          03/88            01/92
(SDR 1.392     (SDR 1.100
_million)    million)
Total                                          6,933        7,092
(SDR 6.499     (SDR 5.425
million)     million)                                                                        _
1. Approved SDR amounts were converted into US$ at SDR I = USS 1.077 which represents the exchange rate at the time of approval
of Credit 1364-CRG.
2. Disbursed SDR amounts were converted into US$ at SDR I = US$1.307 which represents the average of historical exchange rates
at the value dates of each disbursement transaction under Credit 1364-CRG.
3    Re-estimated Economic Rate of Retunt after completion of subprojects.
4  IDA authorized this subloan in August 1985; repayment of this subloan starts on October 15, 1993.
5. IDA authorized CDB to withdrww from Credit account 1364-CRG the equivalent of up SDR 1,875,952 or the equivalent in SDR of
up to US$1,953,777, whichever is lower, for this subproject.



- 61 -
Annex V
Table 1
Page 1 of 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets, 1989-1993
(As of December 31)
(Millions of USS)
Audited
1989    1990    1991   1992   1993
Ordinary Capital Resources
Cash & investment                              35.9    57.8   57.5   79.0   80.4
Loans & secondary mortgages                   131.4   143.7  153.5  165.7  176.4
Receivable from members                        24.8    24.2   32.7   39.7   48.4
Other assets (net)                             12.3    13.2   13.5   11.3   10.6
Total assets                               204.4   238.9  257.2  295.7  315.8
Borrowings & other liabilities                 74.8    78.1   71.6   85.4   80.8
Capital & reserves                            129.6   160.8  185.6  210.3  235.0
Total liabilities & capital                204.4   238.9  257.2  295.7  315.8
SF Operations
Cash & investments                             98.9   104.0  111.3  122.0  120.0
Loans & secondary mortgages                   280.9   330.2  339.8  338.8  335.0
Receivable from contributors                   84.5    76.4  101.3   96.8  117.6
Other assets (net)                              9.3      7.3    7.3   18.5   17.0
Total Assets                               473.6   517.9  559.7  576.1  589.6
Current liabilities & other                    22.2    18.7   20.9   59.3   64.7
Contributed resources                         416.5   446.7  478.5  451.4  455.8
Reserves                                       34.9    52.5   60.3   65.4   69.1
Total liabilities & reserves               473.6   517.9  559.7  576.1  589.6
Venezuelan Trust Fund ODerations
Cash & investments                              4.7      4.6    4.4    4.3    4.2
Loans                                           5.9      5.0    4.2    3.6    2.9
Other assets (net)                              0.2      0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1
Total assets                                10.8      9.8    8.8    8.0    7.2
Contributions (net of repayments)              10.3      9.3    8.5    7.7    7.0
Reserves                                        0.5      0.5    0.3    0.3    0.2
Total liabilities & reserves                10.8      9.8    8.8    8.0    7.2



- 62 -                               Annex V
Table 2
Page 1 of 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Summarized Statements of Income, 1989-1993
(Year Ended December 31)
(Millions of USS)
Audited
1989   1990    1991      1992     1993
Ordinary Capital Resources
Income from loans                           12.1   29.2    14.3       15.9    15.5
Income from investments                      3.0    4.3      4.6       5.1     5.3
Other                                        0.9    1.1      0.9       0.5      0.2
Total income                            16.0   34.6    19.8       21.5    21.0
Borrowing expenses                           5.2    5.1      4.8       5.5      5.2
Administrative expenses                      2.0    2.0      2.5       2.5     2.9
Provision for losses                         1.9    1.6      0.1   (0.05)      0.1
Total expenses                           9.1    8.7       7.4      7.9      8.2
Net income                               6.9   25.9    12.4       13.6    12.8
SFR Operations
Income from loans & mortgages               9.3   18.2    11.2        10.8    10.7
Income from investments                     8.9    9.0       6.7       5.9     5.4
Other                                        0.1    0.1      0.1       0.1     0.1
Total income                         18.3   27.3    18.0       16.8    16.2
Charges on contributions                     2.7    2.7      2.8       3.0     3.6
Administrative expenses                      4.6    5.4      6.1       6.3     6.5
Provision for losses                         1.9    0.9      0.5    (0.1)      1.9
Other                                        0.9    1.7      1.0       1.0     0.1
Total expenses                          10.1   10.7    10.4       10.2    12.1
Net income                               8.2   16.6       7.6      6.6      4.1
Venezuelan Trust Fund ODerations
Income from loans                        0.5    1.2      0.4       0.4      0.3
Income from short-term investments       0.5    0.5      0.4       0.2      0.2
Commissions, exchange, provisions        0.1    0.1         -    (0.1)
Net income                            0.9    1.6      0.8       0.7      0.5



- 63 -
Annex VI
Table 1
Page 1 of 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Resource Position as of December 31, 1993
US$ million
Ecruity
Paid-up capital                                                  124.7
Subscriptions not yet matured                                     18.7
Ordinary reserves and provisions                                 115.9
Total equity resources                                        259.3
Borrowings a/
IBRD                                                              42.3
CDB 8% Notes                                                      30.0
IDB                                                               19.2
Total borrowings                                               91.5
Total available resources                                     350.8
Less:
Loans disbursed and outstanding                                  188.0
Loans committed but undisbursed                                  128.7
Loans approved but not effective                                  32.7
CDB's fixed assets                                                 4.2
Total uses                                                    353.6
Resources available for new approvals                           (2.8)
a/ Net of cancellations and repayments.



Annex VI
Table 2
- 64 -                                     Page I of I
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Soecial Fund Resources
Resource Position as of December 31. 1993
Sources                                                           US$ millions
Special DeveloRment Fund--SDF (Unified)
Contributions agreed by members                                         335.1
Other contributors: Netherlands                                           18.9
Less: Allocation for technical assistance                              (45.0)
Accumulated net income                                                    17.5
Total SDF (unified)                                                   326.5
SDF--Other
Members                                                                  48.8
Other contributors:
Sweden                                                                  3.1
USA                                                                    16.6
Accumulated net income                                                   22.2
Total SDF (other)                                                      90.7
Other Secial Funds a/
Members                                                                   11.3
Other contributors:
USA                                                                     71.8
IDA                                                                     35.1
Inter-American Development Bank                                          8.8
European Economic Community                                              9.1
Nigeria                                                                  3.0
Accumulated net income                                                    29.4
Total other SFR                                                        168.5
Total SFR                                                              585.7
Less: loans outstanding
Under SDF (unified)                                                    194.4
Under SDF (other)                                                         54.8
Under SFR (other)                                                       97.1
Less: undisbursed commitments
Under SDF (unified)                                                     94.3
Under SDF (other)                                                        6.2
Under SFR (other)                                                       14.2
Less: loans approved but not yet effective
Under SDF (unified)                                                     24.2
Less: reflows from loans funded by
borrowings b/                                                        46.7
Total Resources Committed                                              531.9
Resources available for new approvals                                   53.8
a/ Not including technical assistance resources.
b/ Used to fuind liquid investments.



- 65 -
Annex VII
Table 1
Page 1 of 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Proiected Income Statements, 1994-1998
(Millions of US$)
Actual   --------------Projected-----------
Years ending December 31           1993     1994   1995    1996    1997    1998
INCOME
Income from investments               5.3    4.8    5.3    6.0    6.6    7.3
Income from loans                    15.5   15.2   16.6   18.2   19.8   21.4
Other                                 0 2.    1.2    1.3    1.5    1.7    1.9
Total Income                      21.0   21.2   23.2   25.7   28.1   30.6
EXPENSES
Borrowing costs                       5.2    5.2    5.7    6.4    7.1    7.8
Administrative expenses               2.9    3.0    3.4    3.9    4.3    4.8
Loan loss provisions                  0.1    0.1       -
Total Expenses                     8.2    8.3    9.1   10.3   11.4   12.6
Net Income                           12.8   12.9   14.1   15.4   16.7   18.0
Ratios
Interest coverage ratio (ICR)         3.5    3.5    3.5    3.4    3.3    3.3
Return on average equity (%)          7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0



- 66 -
ANNEX VII
Table 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Proiected Balance Sheet Statements, 1994-1998
(Millions of US$)
Actual  --------------Projected-------------
As of December 31                          1993   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Assets
Liquid Assets                           80.4     84.7     94.7   104.7   113.1   125.1
Loans                                  188.0    205.5    224.6  246.2   268.2  288.7
Provisions                             (11.9)  (11.9)   (11.9)  (11.9)  (11.9)  (11.9)
Other investments                        0.2      0.1         -       -       -       -
Receivable from members                48.4      53.1     57.8    62.3    66.8    71.3
Other receivables                        6.5      6.6      7.1      7.7     8.5     9.2
Fixed assets                             4.2      4.6      4.8     4.8              4.6
Total Assets                       315.8    342.7    377.1  413.8  449.5  487.0
Liabilities and Eauity
Current Liabilities                         7.9      8.3       8.9     9.7    10.6    11.5
Borrowings                                 72.8     77.0     87.4    99.0   108.2   117.7
Total Liabilities                   80.7      85.3     96.3   108.7   118.8  129.2
Paid-up capital                           124.7    134.1    143.5   152.5   161.5  170.5
Reserves & retained earnings              104.1    117.0    131.0   146.3   162.9  181.0
Special reserves                            6.3      6.3       6.3     6.3     6.3     6.3
Total Equity                          235.1    257.4    280.8  305.1  330.7  357.8
Total Liabilities & Equity            315.8    342.7    377.1  413.8  449.5  487.0
Ratios
Total debt to equity                     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3
Reserves to loan ratio (%)              59.1     60.4     61.6    62.4    63.5    65.4



- 67 -
Annex VII
Table 3
Page 1 of 1
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)
Proiected Cash Flow Statements, 1994-1998
(Millions of US$)
Actual      ------------Projected-----------
Years ending December 31              1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Sources
Net income                         12.8    12.9    14.1    15.4    16.7    18.0
Repayment from loans               11.6    12.6    13.9    15.4    17.0    18.6
Capital subscriptions & MOV        11.9     9.4     9.4     9.0      9.0     9.0
Borrowing drawdowns                 1.4     9.1    16.7   16.7    19.0    19.4
Total Sources                  37.7    44.0    54.1    56.5    61.7    65.0
Uses
Loan Disbursements                 22.5    30.0    33.0    37.0    39.0    39.0
Adjustment for subscription
receivables
Fixed assets & other                0.1     0.4     0.2     0.0      0.0   (0.2)
Repayment of borrowings             4.9     4.9     6.4      5.0     9.9     9.9
Total Uses                     27.5    35.3    39.6   42.0    48.9    38.7
Net Sources                    10.2      8.7    14.5    14.5    12.8    26.3
Less:
Additions to liquidity          1.4      4.3    10.0    10.0      8.4    12.0
Net Flow (uses)              8.8     4.4     4.5      4.5     4.4    14.3






- 68 -                           Annex VII
Page 1 of 2
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROTECT
Assumption Used in Financial Projections
1.    Financial projections were prepared for the years 1994 through 1998 for the
Ordinary Capital Resource (OCR) and Special Fund Resources (SFR).  No
projections were made for the Venezuela Trust Fund, which is currently inactive.
CDB prepared three sets of OCR projections (base case, low scenario, and optimistic
scenario) of which the base case projections are presented in Annex VII. Details of
projections for low and optimistic scenario are placed in the project file. The
assumed real annual rate of growth loan approvals is 3% for the base case, 0% for
the low case, and 5% for the optimistic scenario. Loan approvals for the forecast
period (base case) are as follows (US$ million):
---------------Projected -----   -
1994    1995     1996      1997     1998   1994-98
OCR         55          58      58       69       79    319
SFR          33        36       43       39       36    187
Total        88        94      101       108      115    506
2.    No constraint on OCR lending authority is assumed as an increase in the
lending limit is expected either through a general capital increase (GCI) or
modification of relevant policies. However, as working assumption for the purpose
of financial projections, a GCI (including a paid-up portion of US$45 million for the
period 1996-2000) is assumed.
3.    Administrative expenses for 1994 were based on CDB's approved budget and
projections were based on the growth in the loan portfolio to which there is a close
historical correlation.  Administrative expenses were allocated to each fund in
accordance with CDB policy (on the basis of the number of operations approved and
disbursed under each fund).
4.    The pattern for commitment, effectiveness and disbursement following CDB
Board approval of loans was based on CDB's experience as shown below.



- 69 -
Annex Vm
Page 2 of 2
----------------Year Following Approval-----------
1     2      3     4     5      6
Commitments: investment loans (%)   40    60       -     -     -      -
Commitments: adjustment loans (%)  100      -      -     -     -      -
Disbursements: investment loans (%)  5     25    25    17    16    12
Disbursements: adjustment loans (%)  100    -      -     -     -      -
5.    Variable lending rates for OCR loans were assumed to hover around 7.5%
throughout the forecast period. Interest spread on variable rate loan portfolio is
assumed to be around 0.4-0.5% to achieve the 7% return on equity, CDB's policy
target. Return on liquidity were assumed to hover around 7% throughout the forecast
period.
6.    Repayments from the loan portfolio were assumed to occur over 15 years, the
current weighted average; new loans and grace periods were assumed to be made in
accordance with the CDB's policy for the sectors.
7.    It was assumed that the arrears situation of Antigua and Barbuda would not
be resolved during 1994-98 and other non-accruing loans would remain in that
category.
8.    CDB's liquidity was assumed to remain at 40% of projected undisbursed loans
in accordance with CDB policy.



- 70 -                                    ANNEX IX
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for the Proposed Loan and Credit
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                   Disbursements
& Semester ending                    each semester              Cumulative
FY96
December 31, 1995                         0.2                       0.2
June 30, 1996                             0.3                       0.5
FY97
December 31, 1996                         0.6                       1.1
June 30, 1997                             1.0                       2.1
FY98
December 31, 1997                         1.4                       3.5
June 30, 1998                             2.0                       5.5
FY99
December 31, 1999                         3.0                       8.5
June 30, 1999                             5.0                       13.5
FY00
December 31, 1999                         6.0                       19.5
June 30, 2000                             5.5                       25.0
FY01
December 31, 2000                         2.2                      27.2
June 30, 2001                             2.0                      29.2
FY02
December 31, 2001                         1.5                      30.7
June 30, 2002                             0.3                       31.0
Estimate was made on the basis of experience under the CDB V project, taking into account
a number of steps (including the requirement of a country guarantee) required to make subloans
effective.






- 71-                      ANNEX X
Page 1 of 5
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1.    Summary of Project Scope and Development Objectives.
(a)   Project Scope: A global line of credit to CDB.
(b)   Development Impact Objectives:
(i)   to channel the proposed IBRD/IDA loan funds to eligible
World Bank/CDB member countries in the Commonwealth
Caribbean consistent with agreed sector lending strategies;
(ii)  to enhance the amount and scope of development and
financial services offered to common World Bank/CDB
members through better work sharing between the
World Bank and CDB under the collaborative program;
and
(iii)  to help implement the agreed sectoral and institutional
strategies, including its proposed strategy to expand its
lending to the private sector through financial
intermediaries and for human resource development, and
to strengthen its institutional capabilities to undertake
effective portfolio management and its economic and
sector work, providing advice on appropriate sectoral
strategies and policies for OECS economic development,
within the framework for closer collaboration between
the World Bank and CDB.
2.    Strategy for Pursuing the above Objectives/ Implementation Plan.
(a)   in regard to the first objective noted above, the World Bank, in
reviewing CDB's project proposals, will pay particular attention
to consistency of project proposals with the agreed sectoral
strategies;
(b)   as to the second objective, the World Bank and CDB jointly
review, at least once a year, each other's work program for
better work sharing in the areas of sector work, special studies,
the preparation of economic memoranda, each other's lending
programs to be processed during rolling 1-3 year periods,
constraints to the implementation of lending strategies and
programs, technical assistance needs and ways to meet such
needs;



- 72                                    ANNEX X
Page 2 of 5
(c)    as to the third objective, CDB and the World Bank will review jointly
the progress in CDB's meeting its own targets for lending to the
private sector through financial intermediaries' and in CDB's
undertaking effective portfolio management, constraints to meeting
such targets and technical assistance needs. The World Bank will
collaborate with CDB as provided for in the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) and will provide informal technical assistance
as can be arranged in reviewing CDB's work program for HRD and its
collaboration with the CDB to broaden and strengthen its economic
and sector work and to formulate appropriate operational modalities
for CDB's Small-scale Enterprise Development Program (SEDP).
3.    Implementation Arrangements
(a)    Organization responsible for the project
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
(b)   Implementation agreement between CDB and implementation agencies
(subborrowers)
These agreements will be set out in the loan agreements
between the CDB and sub-borrowers for subprojects
financed with IBRD and IDA resources.
(c)    Role of the World Bank during project implementation
During project implementation the World Bank will:
(i)   review subproject proposals (including the related
environmental assessment) submitted by the CDB,
provide comments on them promptly, and authorize
them as appropriate assuring itself that they are
consistent with CDB's sectoral strategies and lending
policies;
(ii)   collaborate with CDB as provided for under the MOU and
review jointly with CDB, at least once a year, each other's
work programs as noted in para. 2-(b) above;
(iii)  review progress under the project on the basis of
periodic reports provided by CDB and mount, at least
once every year, supervision missions which would
1.    CDB's lending through financial intermediaries, which accounted for about 24% of
its total loan approvals since its inception (1970-1992), is expected to increase and represent
over 30% of total OCR loan approvals dunrng the next five-years (1993-97).



- 73 -
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 5
undertake comprehensive reviews of progress in project
implementation (including performance indicators); and
(iv)  review CDB's performance and progress regarding
environmental assessment (EA) during annual World
Bank supervision missions and/or the World Bank/CDB
annual reviews of the collaborative program. Such
reviews would cover constraints, if any, to implement
the new environmental guidelines and ways to tackle
these constraints.
4.    Implementation Plans
(a)   Implementation plans for subprojects
Time-bound detailed implementation plans for each subproject,
including technical assistance and training will be included in
the loan documents for each subproject financed under the CDB
VI project and submitted to the World Bank for authorization.
(b)   Schedule of procurement actions
Schedules of procurement actions, including target dates for
each step in the process, will be submitted with each subproject
sent to the World Bank for authorization.
(c)   Schedule of disbursements
Schedules of disbursements for each subproject detailing
expected Bank or IDA financing, government counterpart funds
and cofinancing will be submitted with each subproject sent to
the Bank for authorization.
(d)   Main project risks
There are four main project risks. First, the weak economic
base of the region and its susceptibility to external shocks (e.g.,
significant changes in world commodity prices and the
reduction of preferential trade arrangements for banana and
sugar) could slow the rate of subloan commitments. Second,
significant changes in the macroeconomic situation of
borrowing member countries (BMCs) could adversely affect
their ability to provide counterpart funds and slow subproject
execution. Third, reduced revenues from trade taxes could
cause fiscal problems and shortage of counterpart unless
adequately compensated by sound, new revenue measures. Fourth, a



- 74 -                             ANNEX X
Page 4 of 5
multi-year comprehensive Bank/CDB collaborative program will
require intensive efforts to carry out it smoothly.
(e)   Critical factors that could affect the project's success
The above risk factors could adversely affect the project's
success. To some extent these risks can be ameliorated by,
respectively: CDB maintaining a strong pipeline of projects for
financing to maintain the level of subloan commitments; CDB
continuing to prepare public sector investment programs for the
OECS countries and Belize and undertake annual reviews of its
BMCs' public sector expenditures to assure that the use of
available counterpart was well planned and used for high
priority projects; the World Bank and CDB providing policy
advice on fiscal policy in their policy dialogue with BMCs;
and, based on a successful experience under the first phase of
the collaborative program and a careful review of the MOU for
the second phase, both the Bank and CDB expect that
collaboration will continue in a smooth manner.
Other factors could affect the project's success including weaknesses in
the institutions responsible in the BMCs for subproject implementation,
and insufficient staff resources in the CDB to supervise its portfolio
adequately to increase the probability of successfully implementing
subprojects. CDB has been very active in providing training to staff
of the implementing agencies and provides additional technical
assistance to agencies to implement specific projects it finances. The
adequacy of the arrangements for technical assistance will be reviewed
by Bank staff reviewing subprojects financed under the loan or credit.
The Bank will review with CDB annually its work programme for
lending and supervision work and its administrative budget.
(f)   Specific actions required to achieve the proiect's development
objectives
(i)   actions to implement the MOU by the CDB and the
World Bank;
(ii)   World Bank review and the provision of timely comments on
subprojects sent to the World Bank for financing under CDB VI
to assure that they are consistent with CDB sector strategies
and lending policies and include adequate implementation plans
and EA,
(iii)  reviews by the Bank, at least once a year, of CDB's work
programme of project appraisal, supervision, post evaluation,
and technical cooperation and CDB's administrative budget to
finance this work programme and the economic and sector



- 75-                            ANNEX X
Page 5 of 5
work carried out by the Economics and Programming
Department;
(iv)   annual review by the Bank of CDB's portfolio evaluation report
which would analyze latest status of projects under
implementation, CDB borrowers' compliance with loan
covenants including audit requirements and financial covenants;
(v)   annual review of CDB's performance and
progress regarding EA as noted in para. 3-(c)-
(iv) above; and
(vi)  the provision by the World Bank of informal technical
assistance to the CDB as it can be arranged by the two
institutions.
5.    Monitoring and Evaluation
(a)    Key development impact indicators
(i)   achievement of CDB's lending targets for the next five years as
reflected in its "Operational and Financial Projections",
including lending to the private sector and lending for human
resource development, environment and poverty alleviation;
(ii)  implementation of the subprojects financed under the
loan and credit in accordance with the schedules
(including disbursements), cost estimates and financing
plans set out in the CDB's appraisal reports for these
subprojects;
(iii)  achievement of the work plans and output agreed upon between
the World Bank and CDB under the MOU; and
(iv)   achievement of CDB's own internal targets for speeding up its
loan disbursements and for monitoring and improving the
quality of the portfolio that will be developed by a task force.
(b)   Key financial indicators
The achievement of CDB financial targets (or minimum
requirements), as set out in its financial policy, for (i)
return on equity; (ii) interest coverage; (iii) liquidity;
(iv) reserves to loans; and (v) country exposure. Also,
the timely submission (within six months after the close
of each fiscal year) of: external audit reports of CDB's
annual financial statements; and CDB's annual portfolio
evaluation report referred to in 4-(t)-(iv) above.






- 76 -                                                               ANNEX XI
Page I of I
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SIXTH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
Pipeline of IBRD and IDA Proiects for 1994-96
Source and amount of
CDB Financing
Expected Approval
Country          Type of Project      IBRD        IDA         OCR         SFR       TOTAL              Date
Trinidad & Tobago        Food Park            5.0                                -           5.0            1994 /9 5
Jamaica                Bridge Rehab.          4.0                     -          3.0         7.0            1994 /9 5
Belize               Road Improvement         5.0         -          2.0         3.0        10.0            1994 /95
Dominica                 Sewerage             2.0        2.0                     2.0         6.0            1996
Dominica             Econ. Diversif.          2.0        2.0                     -           4.0            1995
St. Lucia                   do                2.0        2.0                     -           4.0            1995
St. Vincent                 do                2.0        2.0                     -           4.0            1995
Grenada                     do                2.0        2.0                     -           4.0            1995
Grenada             Multi-sector              2.0        2.0                     -           4.0            1996
TOTAL                             26.0        12.0         2.0         8.0       48.0
Note:    CDB normially prepares an 18-month lending program and updates every two months. The Bank and CDB will jointly
review their lending programs for the Commonwealth Caribbean at least once every year in the context of the collaborative
program.






- 77 -
ANNEXXI
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SDCH CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PRJC
PROJECT FILE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
A-1         Annual Reports for 1992 and 1993
A-2         Revised/Updated Sectoral Lending Strategy Papers for
Agriculture, Industry, Tourism, Infrastructure, and Indirect
Lending
A-3         Directional Plan/Strategy - CDB to the Year 2000
A-4         Work Programme and Administrative Budget - 1994, October
1993 (BD 58/93)
A-5         Human Resource Development Policy, July 1993
(Paper BD 26/93)
A-6         Operational and OCR Financial Projections, 1993-97, May
1993 (Paper BD 26/93)
A-7         Environmental Policy, October 1993 (Paper BD 5/93)
A-8         Lending Policies, April 30, 1992
A-9         Revision of Guidelines for Procurement, October 1992 (Paper
BD 21/74)
A-10        Review and Revision of CDB's OCR Financial and
Operational Policies and Guidelines, March 1994 (Paper BD
18/94)
A-il        Review of CDB's SDF Financial and Operational Policies and
Guidelines, March 1994 (Paper BD 19/94)
A-12        CDB's Sectoral Lending Strategies for the Medium-Term -
Revision 1, March 1994 (Paper BD 59/89)
A-13        Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)--Environmental
Assessment (EA) Memo to Files dated March 11, 1994
A-14        CDB's Projections--Base Case, Low Case (pessimistic), and
Optimistic Scenario--draft dated May 9, 1994






Caribbean Development Bank
CDB Organization Chart
(As of January 1, 1994)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~--LI~~~-2IIZ1`
., --- e1--- --
I  W  7J            W
'.:,  4n I ta ,o .C._D..



I



IBRD 10611FR3
-4G __0                                                 THE CARIBBEAN AREA
tO  >   l  GRE~~GRAT ABACO 1.
-,>  S  J   <t>   _           Organization of Eastem Caribbean Stotes Members (OECS)
G  PR0O!ENCE   ELEUTHEFAI.     -                   ANTIGUA Caribbean  Development Bank Members
(3 u   z   F    OF  IVIEXI c    0                           -::~K~)    q-$AT_._.                         - .--International Boundaries
ANDFIOS L.                 S.2 SALVADOR
100 50  0      100    200    300    400
LONG 1.
MILES
c                                    R  ED U.          I                       100  0   100 200  300 400 500  600
U   ~~~      ACKLINS L       o~~~~gXCAICOS IS                             KILOMETERS
r                                         8      <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GREAT INAGUAI  aP *TRK  S
)  <                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~A T Z A N  T  
_ -                                                                                                        A     T/ AN'/CAYMAN ISC<
HAITI) DOMINICAN                         VIRGIN IS.A(UK.)
REPUBLIC                                       W s) ,.AGILLA
~     ~                                                         JAMIAA                                                     PUEA?RICo            ,           .NTIGUA
++ \ t ~~~~~~BELIZE                                                              -N  NU    R XC  .  
r      BELIZE i    --                                                                                                                            GUADELOUPE
/ GUATEMtALA             /           ................                                                                            %        OOMINICC
9              H OND U RAS           ,.ONDURASMARTINIOUE
ONDU_S               ..--' (                 C    A    R    /   B        B          A         N   S    E      A                             . ST. LUCIA
ST. VINCENT'       BARBADOS
ICARAGU A                                                                                    ARUBA
PA  C/ Fl C                                                                                                                                                 i '3   $    CURA9AO  f GRENADA
1~ ~)VONAIRE
OCEA  N                                                                                                                                         MARGARITA           TOBAGO
t CSt W ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRINIDAD 
~~ (>  N           ~PANAMA                                 j     ( 
CARIFTA /OECS DISTANCES IN AIR ROUTE MILES     I'   P  A
I-Y | > | z 1 F 1 | 1 i 1 B 1 w 1 E 1 5 | U   9                          l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  E  N   E  Z  U  E  LAS
ANTIrVA    s54 *93 132  63  351 191  91 355 _  17425 5 71                                                                                                                        GUYANA32
,BARBADOS    214ll 1  115 353 307 1020 5?0 150 2S3  1771                                                                                                                                          C
5fLI.IZ    2171 1359 1147 1071 1721 7,. 2352 2133 1913  7II.        d                                                                  z                                     rb                 <=
DOMINIC  35 8179 97      1     7        IIS ..s - - _ odom SW II &W AV 
CtCNADA    110  71 120 129 291 1375 4_ _0            hA ci bTe _MW                   C O         l     0     M       B     I    A L._                                                       - M
CUYANA    3 1}54 2*  S7 19S *17 1770                    _d           V                                                                   .                                       .               m
JAItAICA    141} 1111 lOSg9 ll  914                   m V*   bf d.   l Ad 10PI m to\
Omt oa 7I. BbM * 8d ft
MONT71R1AT  450 32  300 _1 _                           do                                                                 ,      
ST. KITTS   517 253 24 I                                                                                                                                 L...or  ....
.$T.LUCIO vs __  _  - @ d  <3                                               9,./)\                 J   B  R  A   Z   I  L
ST. VINCVNT 177                                                                                                                                                                          APR L 198
APRIL 1987



