                                       Documentof
                                  The World Bank

                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                 ReportNo: 46273-GD




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                          ONA

               PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING (CREDIT)

                     INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.3 MILLION
                         (US$1.9MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO

                                       GRENADA

                                       FORTHE

                OECS EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                   November5,2008


HumanDevelopmentSector
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmericanand the CaribbeanRegionalOffice




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankauthorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 29, 2008)


                      Currency Unit = EasternCaribbeanDollar
                        EC$2.6882 = US$l.OO
                           US$1.46 = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1   - December31

                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
APL      Adaptable LendingProgram
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
cxc      CaribbeanExamination Council
DFID     UnitedKingdom's Departmentfor International Development
EU       EuropeanUnion
GDP      GrossDomestic Product
GOG      Governmentof Grenada
IBRD     International Bankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
LAC      LatinAmerican andthe Caribbean
MOE      Ministry of Education and HumanResources
MOF      Ministry of Finance
OECS     Organization of Eastern CaribbeanStates
OEDP     OECS Education Development Project
PAD     Project AppraisalDocument
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PTB      Public Tenders Board
SDR      SpecialDrawingRights
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
SPEED II LongTerm Education Sector Planfor 2006-2015
TVET    Technical andVocational Education andTraining
UWI     University of West Indies


                                                                            -
                     Vice President:     PamelaCox
                   Country Director:     Yvonne Tsikata
           Sector DirectorManager:       Evangeline Javier / Chingboon Lee
             (Acting) Sector Leader:     DavidWarren
                 Task Team Leader:       Cvnthia Hobbs

                                                GRENADA

          Additional Financing for OECSEducation Development Project

                                         TABLEOF CONTENTS
I Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 2
.

11. Background andRationalefor Additional Financinginthe amountof SDR 1.3
million (US$1.9 million equivalent)................................................................................................          2

111. ProposedChanges....................................................................................................................     5

N ConsistencywithCAS.............................................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                                         8

V. Appraisal of Project Activities under the Additional Financing .............................................                              8
  A.Economic Analysis .................................................................................................................      8
  B.Financial analysis....................................................................................................................   9
  C.Technica1Analysis.................................................................................................................. 9
  D.Fiduciary Analysis ..................................................................................................................    9
  E.SafeguardPolicies.................................................................................................................
                  . .                                                                                                                       10

V I. ExpectedOutcomes............................................................................................................... 11

VII. Benefits and Risks ................................................................................................................. 11

VIII.Financial terms and conditions for the additional financing .................................................                          11

M Allocation ofLoanProceeds.................................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                                        12

FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                   GRENADA
          ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR GRENADAOECS EDUCATION
                           DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                         PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET

Date: November5,2008                    Team Leader:CynthiaHobbs
Country: Grenada                        SectorDirector: EvangelineJavier
ProjectName: Additional Financingfor    SectorManager: ChingboonLee
OECS EducationDevelopmentProject        Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
Project ID:P113342                      EnvironmentalCategory: C




                             FinancingPlan(US$m.)
                Source                     Local        Foreign        Total
Borrower                                   0.46           0.00          0.46
IDA                                        0.98           0.92          1.90
Others                                     0.00           0.00          0.00
Total                                      1.44           0.92          2.36


I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide, under
OP13.20, an additional credit in the amount of SDR 1.3 million (US$l.9 million
equivalent) to the Government of Grenadafor the OECS Education Development Project
(Loan 7187-GWCredit 3809-GR). The activities to be financed would require a 30-month
extensionof the project closing date, from December30,2008 to June 30,201 1.


2.      The proposedadditional resourceswouldfinance the costs associatedwith scaling
up those components curtailed when the project was restructured after Hurricane Ivan in
November 2004 to address emergency infrastructure needs, namely improving education
quality and strengthening management. The proposed additional financing would
continue to support the Project's key development objectives, which are to: (a) increase
equitable access to secondary education; (b) improve the quality of the teaching and
learningprocess; and (c) strengthenmanagement of the sector and the governance of the
schools. It would especially enable the Project to achieve its expected outcomes and
impact on the second and third objectives. No changes are proposed to the design or
implementation arrangementsof the Project.


11. BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancinginthe amountof SDR 1.3
     million (US$l.9 millionequivalent)

3.      The Grenada OECS Education Development Project (OEDP) is part of a
horizontal multi-country APL established in 2002 as a new strategy to work with the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS). The Board approved the Loan and
Credit Agreements in the amounts of US$4.0 million and SDR 2.9 million (US$4.0
million equivalent) for a total of US$8.0 millionon June 27,2003 and the Project became
effective on January 28, 2004. The United Kingdom's Department for International
Development (DfID) provided US$0.8 million in parallel financing. In September 2004,
eight months into project implementation, Hurricane Ivan hit Grenada causing
widespread destruction to the country's school infrastructure and educational materials.
On November 16, 2004, the project was restructured to address emergency civil works
needs. The first project objective was revised to include replacement and rehabilitation of
secondary schools damaged by the passage of the hurricane, and a significant portion of
the loan and credit was redirected to finance this task (see Table 2 in Section ZZZfor
comparative project costs). The other two objectives remained the same, but the expected
outcomes were significantly scaled down and the activities were funded mostly by the
DflD grant. The original closing date was September 30, 2007. The closing date for the
project has been extendedtwice: initially to June 30,2008 and then to December 30 2008
to finalize civil works. The proposed additional financing would extend the project by
thirty monthsto a new closing date of June 30,201 1.


4.      Proiect Performance to Date: Approximately US$1.42 million in IBRD funds
(18%) of the original credit and loan remains undisbursed. This remaining amount i s


                                             2

committed to ongoing activities and most should be disbursed by December 2008.
Compliance with loan covenants i s satisfactory. Project performance is good and the
Ministry of Education and Human Resources (MOE) has demonstrated strong
commitment to achieving the PDOs. Implementation is rated as moderately satisfactory
for the following reasons:


        (i) projectmanagementteamledtheprocessofassessmentofdamageand
            The
        sector needs following Hurricane Ivan, and they managed and financed the design
        o f 19 schools, including three under the OEDP and 16 under the World Bank/EU-
        funded Hurricane Ivan Emergency Recovery Project. This significantly slowed
        the implementation process for the OEDP. However, implementation has steadily
        improved and it i s expected that some ratings may be upgraded during the next
        mission, which i s planned for this calendar year. In addition, the Coordinating
        Project Unit (PCU) has submitted an action plan that delineates some of the
        implementation problems and highlights specific steps to improve implementation
        performance.

        (ii) wasaprocurementissueduetoconflictwiththenationalPublicCentral
            There
        Tenders Board that was beyond the control o f the Ministry of Education and the
        Coordinating Project Unit (PCU). The issue was handledin accordance with Bank
        policy. As a result, misprocurement was declared on the process for construction
        at Grenville Secondary School, and US$1,078,65 1.69 was cancelled from the loan
        inthe category of Civil Works. Although the works at Grenville were not carried
        out under the OEDP, the impact on access to secondary school has not been
        affected because alternative arrangements were made to use facilities at a nearby
        school and a government-owned handicraft centre. The WB task team confirmed
        that the goal of increasing the number of secondary school places by 520 was
        surpassedwhen taking into consideration the alternative arrangements.

        (iii)Procurement staffing and capacity was also a problem for a period of time
        and merited a moderately unsatisfactory rating, but based on the results of the
        Post Procurement Review carried out inApril 2008, the implementation rating for
        procurement was upgraded to moderately satisfactory. New staff has been hired
        and procurement capacity has substantially improved. Procurement for the AF
        will be handled by two trained procurement officers: one worked for the previous
        Bank-funded Basic Education Reform Project and has eight years of relevant
        experience, while the procurement assistant was recently promoted, based on
        excellent performance, and has attended four Bank-organized training courses
        over the last two years.

        (iv) In November 2005, the implementation arrangements for the OEDP were
        changed. A new PCU was established under the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
        oversee all donor-funded projects, and staff from the MOE's Project Management
        Unit was moved. This led to some delays during the transition to the new
        structure. Staffing and reporting arrangements are now settled and no further
        changes are anticipated.


                                             3

There are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental, social, or other safeguardproblems.

5.      Project outcomes and results: The MOE has achieved or surpassed most of the
project's targets after its restructuring. Progress has been made in: (i)   expanding the
number of new secondary school places by 629 (306 through expansion of two schools
and 323 through accommodation of a nearby school andhandicraft center); (ii)     increasing
transition rates from primary to secondary schools in previously identified underserved
areas; and (iii)improving the gross completion rate for Form V from 82 percent in 2002
to 100.04 percent in 2007. Net enrollment has dippedbelow the original rate (70 percent
in 2002 to 62 percent in 2007) becausemany students dropped out of secondary school
following Hurricane Ivanto take advantage of available jobs in the boomingconstruction
business. The MOE has ensured continuation of many of the quality and management-
focused activities, including peer counselling, interventions in literacy and numeracy,
school management and supervision, and a counselling programme. Additional
unexpected outcomes of the project that lend to the sustainability of OEDP initiatives
include the development of an on-line programme for literacy and numeracy (now
offered by UWIto countries throughout the Caribbean) and the establishment of district
managementteams to assist with school evaluation andperformance.


6.      Some progress has been made to improve education quality. However, due to the
effects of Hurricane Ivan and the emphasis placed on reconstruction, the quality of
education has suffered. Poor student performance on 2007 CXC examinations in math
and language reinforces the urgent need to train teachers to deliver better teaching of
literacy and numeracy skills. Only 10 percent of those students who sat the CXC exams
in2007 passed at least 5 subjects, includingmath andEnglish. This is partly a reflection
of a greater number of students gaining access to secondary education and choosing to sit
for the exams.


7.      New district management teams were introduced and are initially working well.
They have helped schools, through whole school evaluation, to identify teacher training
and counseling needs which are included in this additional financing proposal. Training
for MOE officials is contributing to strengtheningthe institutional capacity of the sector.


8.      Reasons for the Additional Financing: The OEDP was originally designed to
address education quality and management issues. Due to the destruction caused by
Hurricane Ivan, efforts were necessarilyredirected primarily towards rebuildingof school
infrastructure. The World Bank has worked closely with the MOE over the years and
recognizes the technical team's continued commitment to carrying out quality enhancing
activities using the DflD seed grant and government funds. The proposed additional
resources would support their ongoing efforts, allowing the Government to fulfill the
original goals of the OEDP while responding to emerging needs as the MOE transitions
to universal secondary education. It would focus on scaling up the aspects that were
curtailed when the project was restructured and which could not be covered by the DfID


                                             4

grant, namely improving education quality and strengthening management. Additional
financing is the best available mechanism to achieve the project's original development
goals and those of the long-term Education Sector Plan for 2006-2015 (SPEED II).      The
additional financing needs are relatively modest, and this modality would be more cost-
effective than a new project and would allow the M O E to respond to sector needs and
challenges ina timely manner.


9.      Though quality-focused activities have contributed to some quality improvements
at the school and system level, the quality of education needs to be further improved as
demonstrated by student performance on national and regional exams. The problem i s
particularly acute in language and math, and the Government has proposed to use nearly
65 percent of the additional resources to focus on literacy and numeracy training to place
properly trained literacy and numeracy coordinators in primary and secondary schools
and provide them with adequate materials and support. This would build on the
achievements of the OEDP, includingthe development of literacy and numeracy policies
and teacher manuals and guidelines based on the policies. The new district management
teams have also demonstrated initial positive effects, including improved school
evaluation and targeted identification of teacher training and counseling needs, but they
require additional training to better support teachers and school principals and to ensure
that the district education officers work with the schools in a coordinated way, in
particular to ensure better student performance. The remaining loan funds under the
OEDP are committed to finalize civil works and could not be used for the above
purposes.


111. ProposedChanges

10.     No changes are proposed for the development objectives of the parent project: (a)
to increase access to secondary education; (b) to improve the quality of secondary
education; and (c) to improve the management of education in the M O E and in the
schools. The focus o f the additional financing would be on the second and third
objectives. No civil works will be financed with the additional resources. There are no
major changes envisioned in the design of the Project. It would build on activities
originally planned, with a strong focus on improved teaching of literacy and numeracy
and upgrading of TVET teaching skills. The modality for some training has changed as
on-line courses have become available since the Project was approved, and the number of
teachers to be trainedhas expanded to allow for trained coordinators inboth primary and
secondary schools. This i s a departure from the original focus on secondary school
curriculum, based on recognition o f the need to better train primary school students in
reading, writing, and math to ensure they are adequately prepared for secondary school.


11.     The following i s a summary of activities to be supported by the additional
financing. All activities would be included under the existing OEDP components and
sub-components, although some are new inlight of emerging needs.



                                             5

12.     Component 2: Improving the Quality of Teaching andLearning


2.1 Development of Curriculum (Literacy and Numeracy Initiatives)
(a) Teacher training in literacy and numeracy: (i)   training of 60 teachers in literacy and
numeracy using an on-line degree program; and (ii)       in-service training in literacy and
numeracy for 160 primary and secondary teachers.
(b) Instructional support: Improving and implementing a national strategy for the
teaching of Mathematics and Language Arts, including: (i)acquisition of basic
pedagogical resources to support the teaching of these subjects; (ii)     development of a
standardized performance measurement system; and (iii)        development of resources to
support instruction and facilitate parental assistance inthe learning of Mathematics.

(c) Instructional Support Materials: (i) equipment upgrades for the Materials Production
Unit to strengthenits capacity to develop andproduce instructional materials for use in
schools; and (ii) of its staff.
                 training

2.2 Upgrading of teachers' skills: Technical and Vocational Education and Training
(TVET) pedagogy for technical teachers in secondary schools, including: (i)20
unqualified technical teachers at the Diploma level; and (ii) teachers at the Degree
                                                                four
level.

2.4 Improving Student Support Services: Training in counseling to school counselors and
assistant counselors, including: (i)training for 20 counseling assistants (qualified
teachers) to Bachelor's degree; and (ii)training o f five counselors from Bachelor's
degree to Master's degree.

13.     Component 3. Strenpthening Governance and Management: (i)Training for
school principals, vice principals, and district management teams to ensure support for
implementation of literacy and numeracy programs in the classroom. By project
completion, all of the above (a total of approximately 240 education professionals) would
have been trained; and (ii)trainingof some 100student council members.


14.     Component 4. Project Administration: Continued support under the current
arrangements, including communications, supplies, and staff for the PCU (portfolio
manager and procurement specialist).




                                              6

15.    Insummary, the distribution of additional financing would be as follows:




                           Component                       LoanAllocation (US$ millions)
     Component 2
     Sup~orifor Literacy and numeracy initiatives
             Teacher development on literacy and numeracy           350,000
         0   Instructional support                                  605,000
             Instructional support materials                        145,000
    I
         0   Upgrading of teacher skills (TVET)                     230,000

             Improving student support services - training          340,000
             for counselor and assistantcounselors

      Component 3                                                   460,000
             Strengthen management teams
      Component 4                                                   230,000
     Project Administration
                                                Total               2,360,000

16.    The revisedproject costs by componentare shown inthe following table:




17.    Implementation Arrangements for the Additional Financing: All implementation
arrangements would be the same as those for the parent Project. The MOE would
continue to be the implementing agency. The PCU's Portfolio Manager would liaise with
MOE technical staff and ensure timely implementation of the project activities. The PCU,
underthe MOF, would be responsiblefor the fiduciary aspects of project implementation.
PCU staff includes the Project Coordinator (PC), the Portfolio Manager, a
PlannerProgrammer, a Financial Management Specialist, Accounting Assistants,
Procurement Officers, and a Procurement Assistant. Arrangements for financial
management, disbursements and procurement remain as for the parent Project. The
proposednew closing date for the additional financing would be June 30,2011.




                                                 7

W. Consistencywith CAS

18.      The proposed activities are aligned with the main goals of the OECS Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), dated September 6, 2005 and the Progress Report on the
Country Assistance Strategy for the OECS (Report No. 43478-LAC) dated June 5, 2008.
The CAS identifies two pillars: (i)   stimulating growth and improving competitiveness;
and (ii) reducing vulnerability by promoting greater social inclusion and strengthening
disaster risk management. Under the second pillar, one of the goals i s to foster higher
levels of human capital development and increased and more equitable enrolment in
secondary education. While the ongoing OEDP activities have helped the Government to
create additional spaces in secondary schools and to increase completion rates, the
additional financing would address the continued need to improve quality education for
allstudents(equitable access) andmanagementandefficiency of the education sector.


V. Appraisalof ProjectActivitiesunder the Additional Financing

     A. EconomicAnalysis


19.      Since the main focus of the original project design was on quality improvements
of the education system, the economic analysis in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
focused on this aspect, including the benefits of undertaking literacy and numeracy
initiatives and teacher training. Improvements in quality would be achieved through the
provision of better trained teachers and curricular reforms. It was expected that through
these measures and improved facilities (carried out under the parent Project), the Project
would gradually contribute to decreased dropouts and higher educational achievements
which would translate into higher earnings through an increasednumber of graduates and
higher productivity gains associated with secondary education. The main findings of the
original economic analysis continue to be valid. The renewed financing of quality
improvements would be expectedto contribute to the fulfillment of the envisaged project
benefits.


20.      The Government of Grenada i s preparing a World Bank-financed "Skills for
Inclusive Growth Project." This Project is the second phase of the OECS Adaptable
Lending Program. The APL's objective i s to support the Government to increase the
employability of youth through public/private sector partnerships for demand driven
technical and life skills training. This project complements the OEDP by better linking
education to the labour market demands and by offering assistance to youth who face
difficulty in gaining a foothold in the labour market. The Additional Financing proposal
would ensure that the OEDP meets its original objectives and contributes to improving
youth's numeracy and literacy skills. A solid numeracy and literacy foundation would
contribute towards higher youth employability and gains in GDP over time, as captured
inthe economic analysisof the Skills for Inclusive GrowthProject.



                                             8

    B. Financial analysis


21.     During the last decade, the Government has gradually increased the resources
allocated to the education sector. In 2007, total public education expenditure represented
15 percent of GDP (versus 4.9 percent in 1997 and 6.6 percent in 2001). Though budget
resources have significantly increased for recurrent and capital expenditures, the increase
in capital expenditures has been more significant during the last few years, reflecting
investments ininfrastructure.


22.     The activities under the additional financial proposal would trigger some recurrent
expenses, including: (i)higher salaries for teachers as the result of training and
improvement in teachers' qualifications; and (ii)    the conversion of teachers to literacy
coordinators, relieving them from regular teaching duties. The MOE i s developing a plan
for the re-deployment of primary school teachers to these positions, given the declining
trendinthe school-age population andthe decreasing need for teachers at this level.



    C. TechnicalAnalysis


23.     The additional financing would continue to focus on the knowledge gap between
the subject matter taught and the knowledge and skills required for the countries to be
competitive and to diversify, especially in terms of the low literacy and numeracy skills
in Grenada. This issue was analyzed inthe original PAD, and the findings still holdtrue.
The additional financing would support the Project in addressing this issue. Teachers
would receive more training in early detection o f learning difficulties and in ways o f
helping students with learning problems, as well as in teaching better literacy and
numeracy skills to all students. A literacy audit carried out in 2007, under the OEDP,
showed that low level literacy and numeracy skills are not limited to low achieving
students but rather are a more generalized problem, where students are not well taught at
early levels (K- Grade 3). Training would focus on enhancing the literacy and numeracy
skills of teachers and also would provide more student-centered approaches to shift away
from the traditional frontal teaching modes. Finally, a portion of the additional funds
would be dedicated to upgrading the teaching skills of TVET teachers, thus contributing
to a greater number of students leaving the system with employable skills.



    D.FiduciaryAnalysis


24.     Procurement: Both the Ministry o f Education and the PCU acknowledged that
procurement capacity required substantial improvement. The misprocurement declared
on the process for construction at Grenville Secondary School and cancellation of



                                              9

   A. Fiduciary Analysis


24     Procurement: Procurement for the Additional Financing for Grenada OECS
Education Development Project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under LBRD Loans and LDA Credits" of May 2004, as
amended in October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" of May 2004, as amended in October 2006. Both the
Ministry of Education and the PCU acknowledged that procurement capacity required
substantial improvement. The misprocurement declared on the process for construction at
Grenville Secondary School and cancellation of US$1,078,651.69 revealed several
procurement capacity weaknesses, which were effectively addressed. The findings of
both the Procurement Capacity Assessment (March 2008), and the Post Procurement
Review (April 2008) highlight improvements in overall technical and financial planning,
and project components are appropriately packaged for procurement purposes.
Furthermore, the PCU includes two Procurement Officers, and a Procurement Assistant is
being hired. Both officers have good familiarity with the Bank's standard bidding
documents, procurement procedures and guidelines. Both officers have also been
involved with World Bank funded projects for approximately ten years and have attended
various Bank-sponsored procurement courses at Headquarters and in the Region,
including the week-long Fiduciary Workshop at Headquarters in July 2008. The current
performance rating of the Project has been upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. Efforts
should be made to ease the sometimes lengthy approval process by the Public Tenders
Board (PTB), which remains a concern for timely procurement and contract execution
under the project.


25     Financial Management: The financial management system to be used under the
proposed Additional Financing is the same as that used under the ongoing Project. Based
on performance under the OEDP, the financial management system is considered
satisfactory. Credit funds will continue to be disbursed to a Designated Account based on
SOEs, and the PCU will prepare quarterly reports no later than 45 days after the end of
each quarter.



    B. Safeguard Policies


26     The additional resources would be allocated to support teaching and.learning and
to strengthenthe school district management teams and project administration. The
additional financing does not involve expansion in scope or coverage that would trigger
safeguards policies. However, under the parent Project, following restructuring as an
emergency response to address damage from Hurricane Ivan, the focus shifted to
reconstruction of one secondary school and rehabilitation of two secondary schools. One
school was dropped from the project, as explained above. All other works are complete.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

27.    The proposed Additional Financing would benefit 42 district management team
members, 220 teachers slated for literacy and numeracy training, 24 TVET teachers, 200
principals and vice principals, five counselors and 20 counseling assistants, and 100
studentcouncil members. Some 9,000 studentswould benefit indirectly from the training
given to the executive members of the student councils, and around 17,000 students in
primary and secondary schools would benefit from the literacy, numeracy, TVET and
counseling training. The key performance indicators related to quality would remain the
same. They are achievable despite a reductioninoverall funding for the education quality
component since the GOG used the DfID seed grant and government funds (some of
which are not reflected in the project costs) to establish literacy and numeracy polices and
teacher guides. They serve as a foundation for the proposed quality activities. New
intermediate outcome indicators were agreed upon during the technical discussions and
negotiations, and the Government and the task team established that they would be
included in the Operational Manual in a table comparing the original outcomes and
outputs andthe revised indicators.


VII.Benefits and Risks

28.    The expected benefits of the activities to be implemented under the Additional
Financing are the same as recorded in the original PAD. Successful implementation of
the proposed activities would contribute to ensure that more students are able to benefit
from better secondary education and to improve educational achievements by students,
leading eventually to higher productivity and increased earnings. Completion of
secondary education by a greater number of students with better literacy and numeracy
skills would yield more opportunities for tertiary education and more skilled workers for
the labor market.

29.    The main envisioned risk would be that quality improvements (linked to
improvements in teachers' skills and pedagogical practices) would take longer than the
duration of the Additional Financing proposal. This risk is moderate. It is mitigated by
actions from the MOE to provide training to district management teams and school
administrators to more directly support teachers with the implementation of their newly
acquired literacy, numeracy, and TVET skills. In addition, the M O E i s seeking ways to
move the trained specialists into dedicated literacy and numeracy coordinator positions to
better enable them to work effectively.

VIII.    Financialtermsandconditionsfor the additionalfinancing

30.    The Government of Grenada selected a standard IDA credit (maturity of 35 years,
including a grace period of 10 years) with payment dates o f February 15 and August 15
of each year. The GOG and the World Bank agreed to retroactive financing in an amount
not to exceed SDR 260,000 (or US$380,000 equivalent) for expenditures made on or
after October 28,2008, up to the date of signing.




                                              11

IX. Allocation of LoanProceeds

          Category           Amount of the Credit  Percentage of Expenditures
                                Allocated               to be financed
                                                      (inclusive of Taxes)

                                                             100%
services, Trainingand
OperatingCosts


TOTAL AMOUNT                     1,300,000




                                    12


                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33412

                      61°45'                                                                                            61°30'


                                                                                                                                                        SAINT VINCENT
                                                                                                                                    S                           AND THE
                                                                                                                                 E                        GRENADINES

                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                           I                                           Petit
                                                                                                                                                             Martinique
                       GRENADA                                                                                           D
12°30'                                                                                                                 A                                                                   12°30'


                                                                                                                     N      Hillsborough

                                                                                                                   E                                      Grand Bay
                                                                                                                                CARRIACOU
                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                              G                                    Carriacou

                                                                                                                                       Saline Island

                                                                                                                                      Frigate Island

                                                                                                     E                           Large Island
                               Caribbean                                                           H
                                        Sea                                                     T



                                                                           Diamond Island
                                                                                                          Les Tantes

                                                                                               Ronde
                                                                                               Island

                                                                                                Caille Island




                                                                                          London Bridge
12°15'                                                                                                                                                                                     12°15'



                                                                      Sauteurs            Caille Island

                                                                            Levera            Sandy Island
                                                                            Pond
                                                                                     Grenada
                                             SAINT
                                 Victoria
                                          St.Marks
                                             MARK           St.P atrick              Bay                   Bird Island           0  1    2   3     4   5   6 Kilometers


                                                               SAINT           Lake
                                                                              Antoine                                            0     1       2      3      4       5       6 Miles
                                                             PATRICK

                       Gouyave                          Mt. Saint                Tivoli
                                                        Catherine                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                        (840 m)                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                SAINT                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                       Paradise                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                Grand Roy       JOHN                                  Great         Great River
                                                                                    Bay

                                                                               Grenville                                61°30'
                                                                             Grenville
                                                       SAINT                    Bay

                         Beausejour                  ANDREW                   Marquis  Grenada
                                                                                                                                      GRENADA
                                               Grand
                                                Étang

                                                      South
                                   Vendôme
                                    endôme            East Mt.
                            SAINT                     (716 m)
                                              SAINT                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
        ST. GEORGE'S       GEORGE

                Belmont                       DAVID        Saint David's                                                                      PARISH CAPITALS

             Grand Anse                     Corinth                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                Bay
                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                                 Calivigny
  Point                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
Salines                                                                                                          12°00'                       PARISH BOUNDARIES
Glove Island                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                      61°45'

                                                                                                                                                                                  DECEMBER 2004

