Page  1
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
September 30, 2002 
The Honorable Anthony Boatswain 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance, Trade Industry and Planning 
St. George’s, Grenada 
 
Re: 
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the 
 
OECS Education Development Project 
 
Grant No. TF 051143
Dear Honorable Minister: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make 
a
grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred U.S. Dollars 
($151,400) (the Grant) to Grenada (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By____________________ 
Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Director, 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
AGREED: 
Grenada 
 
By__________________________ 
Name:  Dennis Clarke 
Title: 
Director of Economic Affairs 
 
Date: November 29, 2002  
Page  2
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is 
to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the OECS 
Education Development Project, which has as its main objectives:  (a)  to increase 
equitable access to secondary education;  (b)  to improve the quality of secondary 
education; and (c)  to strengthen the management of the education sector and governance 
of secondary schools (the Project)
.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows: 
 
(a) 
in connection with the objective of increasing equitable access to secondary 
education, carrying out of studies to: 
 
(i) 
assess the extent to which students are unable to attend school due to the cost 
of school books, uniforms, transport and meals and the degree to which the 
current School Assistance Programs (SAPs) adequately address these issues; as 
well as the effects of an inadequate home environment on student access and 
success; 
 
(ii) 
conduct a school mapping exercise to analyze the existing distribution of 
educational facilities, the inequalities in the distribution and availability of 
secondary school spaces, and recommendations for location of future 
infrastructure, with a focus on Universal Secondary Education (USE), 
including recommendations for the provision of USE based upon the results of 
said exercise; and 
 
(iii) 
look systematically at the way in which learning spaces are to be effectively 
and efficiently constructed 
 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$78,000 equivalent, of which $5,320 are estimated to be 
operating costs); 
 
(b) 
in connection with the objective of improving the quality of secondary education, 
carrying out of studies to: 
 
(i) 
identify concerns in the education system that impact on the quality of 
education in Grenada, specifically as they relate to teacher qualifications and 
training and the use of more systematic feed-back of test results to teachers 
and schools; and 
 
(ii) 
perform a curriculum mapping exercise to identify ways to improve different 
areas of the curriculum, with an emphasis on harmonizing the curriculum 
with the context of national development priorities 
 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$49,400 equivalent, of which US$520 are estimated to be 
operating costs, and $1,400 are estimated to be spent on workshops to discuss with stakeholders the 
existing and recommended teacher training programs and the curriculum mapping); and 
Page  3
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
 
(c) 
in connection with the objective of 
strengthening the management of the 
education sector and governance of secondary school, carrying out of studies to develop 
an education management information system (EMIS) to connect schools and the Ministry of 
Education (MOE), as well as to improve the supervision system, in an effort to foster the efficient 
sharing of information within the sector 
 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$24,000 equivalent, of which US$260 are 
estimated to be operating costs)
.
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through the Minister of Education, shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of Grenada for purposes related to the 
Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
workshops and operating costs required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services, workshops and operating costs required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
Item 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars) 
 
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1) Consultants’ services  
$143,900 
75% for local consultants 
85% for foreign consultants 
 
(2) Workshops under Section 
 
1.1 (b) of the Grant 
$1,400 100% 
 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
$6,100 
 
100% 
 
Page  4
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
TOTAL $151,400
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a)  the term “workshops” includes only the reasonable 
per diem
 expenditures incurred by 
participants, not to exceed US$100 per participant per workshop, seminar or conference; and 
 
(b)  the term “operating costs” includes the reasonable expenditures for printing, stationery 
and surveys incurred in connection with and as a result of the Activities. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or 
services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 3, 2003 or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, 
except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of 
Bank approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing 
Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application 
is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of 
the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Borrower’s 
Minister for Finance and Planning or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; 
and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably 
request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and 
that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
Page  5
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.6. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of Grenada, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  6
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex estimated to cost less than 
US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for studies under paragraph 1.1(a) and 1.1 (b) of the 
Annex that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every three months during the execution of the Activities, 
and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated 
from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  8
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply 
to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  9
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$15,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
Page  10
D
raft: September 11, 2002 
Pilar González 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
