Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7187-GR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(OECS Education Development Project) 
 
between 
 
GRENADA 
 
and  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2003 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7187-GR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 1, 2003 between GRENADA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance towards financing 
the Project and, by the Development Credit Agreement of the same date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,900,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project before 
disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in this Agreement (the Loan) are 
made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)  
“Co-Curricular Activity” means any activity promoted by Secondary 
Education level students which, meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the School 
Improvement Projects and Co-Curricular Activities Manual (as hereinafter defined), for 
the improvement of quality education, development of leadership potential and 
enhancement  of positive values and mutual self-esteem among students; 
(b) 
“EC Dollars” and “EC$” mean Eastern Caribbean Dollars, the lawful 
currency of the Borrower; 
(c) 
 “EMIS” means the computer-based education management system for 
the storage, processing and sharing of data regarding education in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
Project;  
(f) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any successor 
thereto; 
(g) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 
(b)(i) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
 “PMU” means the Project management unit maintained within the MOE 
for the purposes referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(j) 
 “School Improvement Project” means a specific project which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the School Improvement Projects and Co-Curricular 
Activities Manual (as hereinafter defined), consisting of the acquisition and utilization of 
goods and services in order to increase student learning and motivation in, and improve 
Page  4
-
3
-
performance of, Secondary Education in public and assisted schools in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
(k) 
“School Improvement Projects and Co-Curricular Activities Manual” 
means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Secondary Education” means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory for forms one to five (corresponding to the seventh to twelfth grades 
of schooling); and 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four million 
Dollars ($4,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007  or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 
(i) 
an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing the 
detailed procedures for the implementation of the Project, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(A) the organization, functions and staffing 
of the PMU; (B) the financial management procedures; (C) terms 
of reference for all PMU staff; (D) standard bidding documents 
and letters of invitation to consultants; (E) the rules, procedures 
for entry, and selection criteria for winners of the nationwide 
Page  7
-
6
-
competitions on art, essay, poetry or debate; and (F) mandatory 
safeguards and mitigation actions for the expansion and 
rehabilitation of the Secondary Education schools, which 
safeguards and actions would be applied to prevent or mitigate 
any possible negative environmental impact said expansion or 
rehabilitation might otherwise cause; and 
(ii) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall contain, 
inter 
alia
:
(A) the detailed rules and procedures for the financing 
mechanism of the School Improvement Projects and Co-
Curricular Activities; (B) procedures for monitoring and 
evaluation of School Improvement Projects; and (C) the 
procedures for procurement of goods and services under School 
Improvement Projects. 
(c) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or the School Improvement Projects and 
Co-Curricular Activities Manual or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict 
between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or the 
School Improvement Projects and Co-Curricular Activities Manual, the provisions of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall make available an amount in EC Dollars equivalent to two million five 
hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) as counterpart funds for the Project. To that 
effect, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit equivalent to four hundred and fifty 
thousand Dollars ($450,000) prior to the Effective Date. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a Project management unit (the 
PMU) within the MOE during the implementation of the Project, with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
coordination and implementation of the Project; 
(ii) 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
processing of documentation required for disbursement of the 
Loan and Credit proceeds and for procurement of goods, works 
and services under the Project; and 
(iv) 
preparation and maintenance of the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Article IV of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure: 
(i) 
that the PMU is at all times staffed with at least a Project 
manager, a procurement officer, a Project accountant, an 
accounts clerk, a school supplies officer, a secretary and an 
assistant;  
(ii) 
that the financial analyst of the MOE is at all times in charge of 
the financial aspects of the Project; and 
(iii) 
that the PMU is provided with adequate facilities, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities. 
 
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, appoint and thereafter maintain a senior education planner within the MOE with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, 
the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(b) 
in the last FMR of each calendar year, recommend the measures deemed 
necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, inform about the availability of counterpart funds, and provide an 
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank, updating (if necessary) the targets, set forth 
in the Implementation Letter, to be achieved for the implementation of the Project during 
the succeeding calendar year; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, on an annual basis upon request by the Bank until 
the completion of the Project, the relevant FMRs, and thereafter take all measures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system 
within the PMU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account and the Project Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year an annual audit 
report which includes: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statement of expenditures submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish  to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and an initial amount equivalent to 
at least four hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($450,000) has been deposited therein;  
(b) 
the Operational Manual and the School Improvement Projects and Co-
Curricular Activities Manual have been approved by the Bank and adopted by the 
Borrower;  
(c) 
the PMU has been fully staffed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;  
(d) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed; and 
(e) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, other than those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
 
Section 5.02. The date December 29, 2003  is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Development of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development  
Financial Complex 
The Carenage,  
St. George, Grenada 
West Indies 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(473) 440-4115 
 
For the Bank:  
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development  
1818 H Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20433  
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
GRENADA 
 
By /s/ Denis G. Antoine 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and Credit 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
Allocated Allocated 
Expenditure 
to 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
(Expressed in SDRs
)
be
Financed
(1) Works 
2,000,000 
1,540,000 
80% 
 
(2)  Goods (except as 
900,000 
640,000 
75% 
 
covered by Category 
 (5) 
below) 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
350,000 
250,000 
85% 
 (except 
as 
covered 
 
by Category (5) below) 
 and 
Audits 
 
(4) Training 
410,000 
265,000 
90% 
 
(5)  Goods and services for 
180,000 
118,000 
90% 
 School 
Improvement 
 
 Projects 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest 
-0- 
 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
under Section  
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Fee  
40,000 
 
Amount due 
 
under Section 
 
2.04
of
this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
Allocated Allocated 
Expenditure 
to 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
(Expressed in SDRs
)
be
Financed
(8) Unallocated 
120,000 
87,000 
 
 
________ ________ 
 
TOTALS 4,000,000
2,900,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “training” includes the non-consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training 
activities under the Project, including reasonable expenditures for training materials, 
training fees, training facilities, rentals, travel costs and per diem expenditures incurred 
by trainees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $70,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) (2), (3),(4), and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within 
twelve months before that date but after May 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures under contracts that are not subject to prior review by 
the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase equitable access to Secondary 
Education; (b) to improve quality and efficiency of Secondary Education; and (c) to 
strengthen the institutional capacity of the educational sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Increasing Equitable Access to Secondary 
Education
Rehabilitation and expansion of about three Secondary Education Schools 
located
 in the Borrower’s parishes of St. George, St. Andrew, and St. David, through the 
carrying out of civil works and the provision of necessary equipment. 
Part B
:
Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning
1.          Development  and  implementation  of  a  standardized  curriculum  for  the  lower 
Secondary Education level, through: (i) the provision of training to principals, teachers 
and supervisors on the implementation of the new curriculum; (ii) the provision of 
training for selected teachers in creative and performing arts; (iii) the development and 
implementation of  programs on literacy and numeracy enhancement, including the 
preparation of a summer camp pilot; (iv) the provision of the necessary equipment, 
learning materials and furniture for the establishment of about four new learning resource 
centers; (v) the provision of furniture, equipment and supplies for the upgrading of 
science laboratories and technical workshops in Secondary Education schools; and (vi) 
the dissemination of the new curricula and a science manuals to all relevant users. 
 
2.        Improvement of the quality of teaching at the Secondary Education level, through: 
(i) the provision of specialized training to school teachers on the skills required to 
implement the new curriculum; and (ii) the provision of training and necessary equipment 
for the creation of a model classroom in the T.A. Marryshow Community College.  
 
3.      Provision of support for the development of improved programs to enhance students 
learning, through: (i) the development or acquisition of new technology for the 
processing and analysis of test scores and student assessments, as well as the provision of 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
the necessary training to operate it; (ii) the provision of training to selected teachers, 
principals and education officers on early detection of learning difficulties and 
continuous assessment of skills, with emphasis on mathematics and language; and (iii) 
the provision of technical assistance for the development and printing of handbooks for 
teachers on continuous assessment. 
4.          Improvement of schools’ student support services, through:  (i) the design and 
implementation of a textbook rental program for low-income students; (ii) the provision 
of specialized training to selected teachers to enable them to provide guidance and 
counseling to secondary students; (iii) the provision of specialized training to selected 
students to become peer counselors in their own school; and (iv) the carrying out of Co-
Curricular Activities. 
Part C
:
Improved Governance and Management in 
the Education System
1. 
Provision of support for the Borrower’s efforts to improve the level and 
efficiency of supervision and management activities at the school level, through: (i) the 
provision of training, necessary equipment, and resource materials for the creation of 
about seven district education offices in selected schools; (ii) the provision of training to 
school principals on the preparation and use of school development plans; and (iii) the 
carrying out of School Improvement Projects. 
2. 
Improvement of the education sector’s information management system, through 
the provision of technical assistance, necessary equipment and training for the 
development and implementation of the EMIS. 
3. 
Enhance stakeholders’ participation in the educational reform process, through: 
(i) the carrying out of ongoing consultations amongst stakeholders; (ii) the carrying out of 
dissemination campaigns; and (iii) the carrying out of nationwide competitions amongst 
secondary students in art, essay writing, poetry and debate. 
Part D
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and purchase of necessary equipment 
for the strengthening of the PMU. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning October 15, 2008 
 
through April 15, 2018 
                    5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for the provision of goods shall be grouped 
into bid packages, each estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more, and contracts for 
works shall be grouped into bid packages, each estimated to cost $1,500,000 equivalent 
or more. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,200,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Selection of contractors and suppliers under this paragraph shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods which cannot be grouped into larger bid packages and estimated to cost 
less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$790,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,090,000 equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-priced contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
4. 
Procurement under School Improvement Projects
Goods and services needed under School Improvement Projects shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in the School 
Improvement Projects and Co-Curricular Activities Manual. 
 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured under Part B of this 
Section; (b) the first two contracts for goods procured under Part C. 1 of this Section; (c) 
the first two contracts for goods procured under Part C.2 of this Section; (d) each contract 
for works procured under Part B of this Section; (e) the first two contracts for works 
procured under Part C.1 of this Section; and (f) the first two contracts for works procured 
under Part C.3 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. Consultant
s’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
this Section. 
2. 
The short list of consultants to be selected in accordance with this Section II for 
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and 
footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise 
provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent,  may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Contracts for auditing services, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Specialized advisory services which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $690,000 shall be selected by comparison of qualifications of three individual 
candidates and procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any request for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultants’ Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of technical 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of reference of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review.   
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $250,000 until the 
Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of withdrawals applications that a 
higher balance is necessary. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall 
be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
