                                                 Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                       ReportNo: 26042




                                    PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                          PROPOSEDLOANINTHE AMOUNT OF US$4.0MILLION

                               AND A PROPOSED CREDIT INTHE AMOUNT

                           OF SDR 2.9 MILLION (US$4.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                                 GRENADA

                                                  FORTHE

                               (OECS) EDUCATION DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                               INSUPPORT OFTHE SECONDPHASEOFTHE


                               OECS EDUCATION DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

                                                JUNE 3,2003




Human DevelopmentSector
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = ECD
                                  ECD$l.O = US$0.370370
                                   US$1.0 = ECD$2.70

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -- December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Lending
BERP    Basic Education Reform Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDB     Caribbean Development Bank
CEE     Common Entrance Examination
CGCED   Caribbean Group for CooperationinEconomic Development
CIDA    Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
CREMIS  Caribbean Regional Educational Management Information System
cxc     Caribbean Exaininatioii Council
DFID    Department for International Development
ECD     Evaluation Capacity Development
EXT     Educational Examinations and Testing Unit
EMIS    EducationManagement Information System
FMR     Financial Management Report
GOG     Government o f Grenada
ICB     InternationalCompetitive Bidding
ICT     Informatioil and Communication Technologies
LEAP    Literacy Enhancement and Achievement Prograinine
MCT     Minimum Competency Test
M O E   Ministry ofEducation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OERU    OECS EducationReform Unit
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
PMU     Project Management Unit
SIP     School Improvement Project
SPEED    Strategic Plan for Educationand Development
TAMCC   T.A. Marryshow Community College

                            Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                         Country Director:    Caroline Anstey
                            Sector Director:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Cynthia Hobbs

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                  GRENADA
                            (OECS)EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM


                                                 CONTENTS




    A. ProgramPurpose and Project Development Objective                                     Page

       1. Programpurpose and programphasing                                                   3
       2. Project development objective                                                       4
       3. Key performance indicators                                                          5

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      6
       2. Main sector issues andGovernment strategy                                           7
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   13
       4. Programdescription andperformance triggers for subsequent loans                     14

    C.ProgramandProject Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                  14
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       17
       3. Benefits and target population                                                      18
       4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       19

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                            19
       2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         20
       3. Lessons learnedand reflected in the project design                                  21
       4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    23
       5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         23

    E.Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                            23
       2. Financial                                                                           24
       3. Technical                                                                           24
       4. Institutional                                                                       25
       5. Environmental                                                                       26
       6. Social                                                                              27
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  28

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F.Sustainability andRisks

  1. Sustainability                                                                      29
  2. Critical risks                                                                      29
  3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                                                       30


G. Main Loan Conditions

  1. EffectivenessCondition                                                              30
  2. Other                                                                               30

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             31



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                           32
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     38
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    56
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    59
          (B) FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                           65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     75
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            81




MAP(S)

                                                    GRENADA
                                     (OECS) EducationDevelopment Program
                                       ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                       Latin Americaand CaribbeanRegion
                                                     LCSHE

 Date: June 3,2003                                       Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs
 Sector Director: Ana-MariaArriagada                     Sector(s): Secondary education (100%)
 Country Director: CarolineAnstey                        Theme(s): Educationfor the knowledgeeconomy (P)
 Project ID: PO77759
 Lending Instrument: AdaptableProgramLoan (APL)


                                                                 Estimated
   APL               Indicative Financing Plan            Implementation Period             Borrower
                                                                 (Bank FY)
             IBRD                Others         Total    Commitment     Closing
             US$ m       %       US$ m        US$ m          Date         Date
 APLLoad
      1

    Credit
 APLLoad
      2        8.00    90.9         0.80         8.80    0913012003    0913012007 2.50

    Credit     4.00
               4-00
Total          8.00                 0.80         8.80




 Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
 Commitmentfee: 0.85%                                  Frontend fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
I                                                      Paymentfor FEF: Capitalizefrom LoanProceeds

 Initialchoiceof Interest-ratebasis: Auto. RateFixing by period6 months
 Type of repaymentschedule:
  [XI Fixed at Commitment,with the following repayment method (choose one): level
  [ 1, Linkedto Disbursement

 Conversion options: [XICurrency    [XIInterest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:   Capitalizefrom Loan Proceeds
iProposedTerms    (IDA): StandardCredit

-Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%                               Years to maturity: 35

 BORROWER                                                            2.20      0.30          2.50
 BRD                                                                 1.50      2.50          4.00
 IDA                                                                 1.50      2.50          4.00
 UK:BRITISHDEPARTMENTFORINTERNATIONAL                                0.57      0.23          0.80
 DEVELOPMENT(DFID)
 Total:                                                              5.77  I    5.53    1   11.30




I         Annual1         0.30  1   1.60 I 2.88 I   2.40 I   0.82 I       I      I         I
 Cumulative1              0.30   1  1.90 I 4.78  1  7.18 1   8.00  1
  Project implementationperiod: September2003 - September2007
  Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2003 Expectedclosing date: 09/30/2007
ceL%>FL'*oE*mF'n Uam" mcu




                                                       - 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purposeand programphasing:
The Bank has adopted a sub-regional approach to work with the countries of the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States (OECS). A "horizontal" multi-country APL program was established in 2002 to offer
continued support to the sub-region's education sector with a focus on improvingquality and access at the
secondary level. This program for St. Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Grenada and St. Vincent and
the Grenadines was approved by the Executive Board on June 13, 2002. St. Lucia and St. Kitts and Nevis
comprised the first phase of the program. Grenada will now join the program, after having met the
established criteria for participation (see Section B.4.). It is expected that St. Vincent and the Grenadines
will join in FY04 and Dominica willjoin in FY05. After a brief description of the program's purpose and
design, this PCD will present the proposed project for Grenada, which has been tailored for the country
within the more general framework already approved.

The Bank approach for this program is similar to the one adopted in other sectors such as HIV/AIDS. It
involves adaptation of the Banks APL instrument to better suit sub-regional goals by grouping similar
operations under an umbrella mechanism, while still shaping each project to meet the particular needs of
each country. In this "horizontal" APL, the instrument i s applied sequentially across countries in the
sub-region, allowing them to join the program when they are ready. This programmatic approach
encourages cost effectiveness, sub-regional integration and a focus on sub-regional priorities by the
member countries to allow them to reach consensus on common problems and solutions.

OECS countries face important development challenges, with income volatility and persistent poverty.
Their economies remain extremely vulnerable to external factors, as shown by the effects of September
11, 2001. Improvement of their education systems is paramount to equip these agriculturally-based
countries to survive in an increasingly global knowledge-based economy. Despite differences among the
OECS countries, recent studies and statistics show remarkable similarities in their provision and delivery
of educational services. OECS countries are providing universal access to primary education and access
to secondary education for over 60 percent of their population. However, this net enrollment, which
compares favorably to Latin American countries, conceals a profound deficit in quality and equity.
Student achievement is very low and a majority of youth leave the education system without the basic
skills necessary to play a productive role in society. Less than 70 percent of the students complete
secondary education and less than 50 percent succeed at the regional Caribbean Examination Council
(CXC) exams. A high level of unemployment among youth with low skill levels has resulted in an
increase in the number of youth at risk throughout the region. Unemployed school leavers face
increasingly new challenges, not least the temptation of a growing sub-culture of crime and drugs and
early sexual activity with the concomitant risks of contracting sexually transmitted disease and early
pregnancy.

All the OECS countries have put education at the center of their strategy to diversify their economy, to
ensure sustainable growth and to improve the cohesion of the society by better integrating youth. In
November 2000, through a large consultation process, the OECS countries developed an Eastern
Caribbean Development Strategy with ten core priorities, among them two related directly to this project:
(i)developing human capital through continued investments in better quality health and education,
especially improved access to secondary and tertiary education and (ii)     addressing pressingsocial issues,
particularly chronic unemployment and problems associated with youth. With this established
foundation, each OECS country carried out a participatory process to plan their long-term education
development strategies. At a Regional level, the OECS Secretariat (through the OECS Education Reform
Unit - OERU) is attempting to harmonize those strategies. A framework for reform with a 2010 horizon,
"OECS Education Reform Strategy: Pillars for Partnership arid Progress," was adopted by the OECS


                                                    - 3 -

Ministers of Education in June 2001. All the countries have expressed interest in engaging in secondary
education reform programs that: (i)expand equitable access; (ii)revise the programs and curricula in
light of fast changing labor market conditions; (iii)improve quality by creating an environment more
conducive to teaching and learning; (iv) address the problems of youth at risk as manifested by
significant school drop-outs, especially boys, and by school violence; and (v) develop the capacity o f
both central and school level administration in the context of a newly defined system of autonomy and
accountability. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), dated June 4, 2001, confirms the
priorities of the "OECS Education Reform Strategy" and of the Bank's Caribbean Education Strategy
report which was presented to the CGCED meeting of June, 2000 and was endorsed by the Ministers of
Education on October 25,2000.

This program was developed with participation from the Department for International Development
(DFID) and is coordinated with other main donors for the education sector in the region, including the
Caribbean Development Bank, the European Union, UNICEF and the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA). The activities proposed under this program are supported by current
initiatives from several regional institutions: (a) the OERU's work on curriculum harmonization; (b) the
CXC's work on evaluation and standards and (c) the UNESCO regional office's initiative on education
statistics. Through the OERU, OECS countries are working on curriculum reform for Forms Ito IIIof
secondary education, exploring upgrading of existing teacher training modalities and sharing their
experiences on EMIS (Education Information Management Systems), based on the evaluation of a pilot
experience in St Lucia. This program builds on these joint initiatives and the recently completed
Bank-financed Basic Education Reform Projects in St. Lucia, Grenada and Dominica, the DFID-financed
Secondary Education Support Project (SESP) in Dominica and the CDB-financed education project in St.
Kitts and Nevis. Through these projects, achievements at the basic education level have laid the
foundation for reforms in the upper primary and secondary schools and have increased demand for better
quality education.

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the horizontal APL program i s to build human capital in the OECS which, in
tum, will contribute to the diversification of their economy and more sustainable growth. This objective
will be achieved by: (i) increasing equitable access to secondary education; (ii)
                                                                                improving the quality o f
the teaching and learning process, with more direct interventions and provision of resources at the school
level, a focus on student-centred leaming and various mechanisms to provide student support, and (iii)
strengthening management of the sector and governance of schools. In Grenada, special emphasis will be
placed on improvingstudents' literacy and numeracy skills.




                                                     - 4 -

3. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
The following performanceindicators will be used to measureprogressin meetingthe established
developmentobjectives:

Project Development                                          Outcomehnpact Indicators
Objectives
                             Grenada (a)          St. Lucia       St Kitts & Nevis       Dominica      St. Vincent & the
                                                                                                          Grenadines
ncrease equitable access to secondary education
Transition rate to       [inproportionto
secondary education      Grade 6 students]
increases                from 80% in            from 69% in        (no needfor an   from 83% in 1999/00   from 60% in
                         2001/02 to 93% by 2000/01to 82% by indicator here, since       to xx% by...    2000/01 to xx%
                         2006/07                  2006107         it reaches 100%)                            by...
                                  and
                         [in proportion to
                        studentssitting the
                         CommonEntrance
                         Exam] from 55% in
                         2001/02 to 75% by
                        2006/07
Net enrollment rate in       from 70% in        from 64% in          from 90% in    from 73% in 1999100    from 54% in
secondary education       20011'02 to 85% by 2000/01 to 77% by 2000/01 to 96% by        to xx% by...    2000/01 to xx%
increases                       2006/07            2006107             2006/07                                 by...
mprove the qualify
Gross completion rate      from 82% to in       from 72% in          from 70% in    from 56% in 1999/00   from 47% in
in FormV increases      2001/02 to 105% by    2000/01to 85%      2000/01to 85% by       to xx% by ...   2000/01 to xx%
                               2006/07           by 2006/07            2006/07                                 by...


Proportion of students    from 13% in2000 from 27% in 2000 from 26% in 2000 to from 52% in 2000 to from xx% in 200(
passingat least 5 CXC, to 25% by 2006/07          to 40% by       36% by 2006/07         xx% by ...        to xx% by...
including Math and                (b)              2006/07
English, increases
mprove manngentent and efficiency of the education system
Proportion of             from 13% in 2001 from 13% in 2000 from 5% in 2000 to from 5% in 2000 to      from xx% in 200(
non-salary recurrent      to 15% by 2006/07       to 16%by        9% by 2006/07...       xx% by...         to xx% by...
expenditure out of total                           2006/07
recurrent expenditure                  I
increases
 Pupil-teacher ratio      from23 in2001 to        from 19 in    from 12.6 in 2000101 from 17 in 1999/00     from 24 in
increases                   24 by 2006107     2000/01 to 20 by    to 15 by 2006/07       to xx by....     2000/01to xx
                                                   2006107                                                     by...
inprove equity
Soecific to each       I Transition  rates to                    Average proportion
country                  secondary educatioi rates (GER) in the of FormV students
                         based on students    two new schools'    passingat least 5
                        sitting the CEE in     catchment areas   CXC exams in each
                         the 3 underserved         increase          of the seven
                         parishes of St.      significantly from catchmentareas of
                         Andrew, St. David        2000/01 to      the new Saddlers
                         and St. George            2006/07:     schools increases b)
                         increase from 51%    From 35% to 60% 15-20%by 2006/07
                        in2002 to 5990in         in Gros Islet
                         200617               From 0% to 70%
                                              inhnseLa Raye




                                                           - 5 -

                                              Ratio betweenthe
                                                proportion of
                                              graduate teachers
                                              inthe poorestand
                                                 richest 20%
                                              schools increases
                                             from 55% in 2000
                                                  to 85% by
                                                   2006107
                         Notes: Datafor Dominica and St Vincent and the Grenadines will be confirmedwhen the countries
                        join the program.
                         (a) All target indicators will be revisedwhen the latest population information from the 2001
                         population census becomes available.
                         (b) At least 4 CXC includingEnglishand math.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22205- L A C Date of latest CAS discussion: June 4,2001

The OECS Country Assistance Strategy cites two crucial policy issues: (i)economic and social
vulnerability and (ii)limited institutional capacity. In order to relieve economic and social
vulnerability, the Bank, in close collaboration with other development agencies, should support an
economic diversification process to move from agriculturally-based economies to service
industries and tourism, while building institutional capacity and protecting their environment.
This will require investments in training of human resources. The quality of human capital is a
critical factor for better integration in a world economy dominated by knowledge-based
industries. Education, especially at the secondary level, should remain a strong priority for the
Eastern Caribbean Governments in order to ensure that students learn the basic skills necessary to
enter into the labor force. Due to the special development challenges that these small states face,
the Bank proposes a sub-regional approach to mitigate the limitations imposed by their small size.


Caribbean Education Strategy Report No. 20452-LAC, June 2000: The proposed project i s inline
with the five key recommendations made in the Caribbean Education Strategy paper, endorsed on
October 25, 2000 by the Ministers of Education of the region. These strategy recommendations,
intended to develop an internationally competitive labor force and equitable and effective
education systems, include: (i)narrowing the knowledge gap; (ii)making the school and the
classroom the center of focus of the education system; (iii)reducing inequities in the school
system; (iv) strengthening regional collaboration and (v) enhancing educational financing and
management.

Small States: Meeting Challenges in the Global Economv - ReDort of the Commonwealth
Secretariat/ World Bank Joint Task Force on Small States, April 2000 (presented at the Bank`s
Annual Meetings in Prague in September 2000): This report states that "improving small states'
human capital is the most important vehicle for a rapid transition and more equal income
distribution." A better-educated population will be more productive and use limited resources
more efficiently. In strategic global repositioning of their economies, the OECS countries are
rapidly shifting to service industries. Human capital is a critical factor in service delivery, an
increasingly important commodity in the global market. Improvements in the quantity and quality
of education, with emphasis on strong literacy and numeracy skills, are essential to upgrade the
work force and ensure labor productivity. Information technology can also boost development in



                                                            - 6 -

small states with a well-educated computer-literate work force. The Report states that it i s
important for small states to builda knowledge base and share experiences. Regional co-operation
can also help to develop capacity. Finally, improved donor coordination is important to the
development of small states. Alignment of donor objectives reduces the administrative and
financial burden on the countries.

The OECS Education Reform Strategy: Pillars for Partnership and Progress 2010 (accepted in the
 14th Ministers of Education Meeting: Tortola, June 2001): This document proposes inter alia to
reform secondary education along the following lines: (i)to provide or maintain the provision of
universal education for all children up to the age of 16 years, to guarantee five years of secondary
education to students meeting the entry criteria and to certify achievement at the end of primary
and secondary; (ii)to establish a common curriculum in the first three years of secondary to
reinforce general education (English Language and Literature, Mathematics, Integrated Science,
Integrated Technology, Social Studies, Foreign Languages, Physical Education, Religious and
Moral Education and Performing Arts) and to allow some degree of specialization in the last two
years; (iii)to improve the quality through modular programmes, comprehensive training for
school principals and teachers, lengthening the school year to 190 days, encouraging the use of
creative and performing arts and information and communication technology in teaching and (iv)
to strengthen the delivery of support services such as guidance and counselling, social welfare and
library and learning resources.

2. Mainsector issuesand Government strategy:
 Sector Issues
The following sector issues are common to all the OECS countries, but particularities for Grenada are
highlighted here. The education system in Grenada has realized many accomplishments over the last
decade, yet there are still shortcomings to address. The following issues have been identified through
work and studies done under Grenada's previous Bank-financed Basic Education Reform Project (BERP),
in Grenada's long-term sector strategy plan (SPEED), and through studies carried out for the region in
preparation for the first phase of this APL in the areas of social assessment, school financing, youth at
risk, teacher training, curriculum, science education and numeracy and literacy. Additional studies
carried out under a PHRD grant for this second phase of the APL in the areas of youth at risk (poverty
assessment), education management information systems, design of learning spaces, school mapping,
teacher training and curriculum development have guided decisions regarding the design o f the project.

Background
The education sector has received strong political and social support over the last three decades. In the
early nineties, the Government initiated its efforts to reform the education system, and in 1995, Grenada
prepared the BEW with support from the World Bank and in close consultation with regional
institutions. Emphasis was placed on strengthening the institutional capacity of the education sector,
improving quality and expanding access. The following significant gains were made under the BERP.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) was reorganized and strengthened in different areas. Four new units
were created and staffed in the areas of educational testing and exams, educational planning and
statistics, production of educational materials and Project Management. Most of the units were well
staffed and operational by the end of the project. The M O E moved to a new well equipped building,
supporting its modernization efforts. This improved staff morale, fostered better coordination and
dialogue among the MOE units and provided much needed upgraded infrastructure to allow for the use of
technology for information purposes and production of books and materials. Additional accomplishments
were: (i)the completion of the long-term sector development plan (Strategic Plan for Education and
Development - SPEED) which defines the strategy and actions for the education sector through 2010; (ii)



                                                    - I -

the production of a Statistical Digest (1998-2001) and (iii)the incipient development of an integrated
data system. Grenada made relevant progress in improving the quality of its system to assess student
achievements. During the project implementation years, the country experienced increases in its gross
enrollment rates in secondary as well as improvements in transition rates. Though stakeholders would
readily admit that the sector has moved forward, there was some resentment from schools, since the bulk
of the last project focused on the central level administration and little was done to make real changes in
the teaching and learning process.

Access to education
Although Grenada has achieved near universal coverage for primary education (99%), access to
secondary education is limited. Net enrollment was about 69% in 2000 with a total of approximately
10,300 students distributed across 19 public and private schools. As is the case in other OECS countries,
the limited number of secondary school places in Grenada results in a lower transition rate from primary
to secondary schools. This i s partly due to the high selectivity of the Common Entrance Examination
(CEE), a competitive exam given at the end of Grade 6 through which access to the secondary education
i s determined. The CEE rations the limited places available in secondary education, allowing only some
50% of those who test to advance to the secondary level. This has a negative effect on the poor because
they often attend the schools with fewer resources and from which fewer students pass the exam. Those
who do not pass the CEE move to Senior Primary (Grades 7-9). Some may eventually make it into
secondary school, while others take the School Leaving Examination (SLE) which sends them into the
labor market at an early age without the proper skills. One of the SPEED'S top priorities is to achieve full
secondary education coverage during the next decade and eliminate the Senior Primary schools.

While there is a current shortage of secondary places, statistical data on population trends show a current
decline in school-age population, which would lead to substantial increases in the transition and
secondary enrollment rates even without interventions. Assuming a conservative decline of 3% per year
in the 11-year-old population, the transition rate from primary to secondary, currently equal to 55%,
would naturally reach 80% by 2007/08 and 100% by 2010. Nevertheless, there are some secondary
schools that are overcrowded for two reasons: (a) high migration flows from rural to urban areas and (b)
low numbers of secondary schools in certain areas of the country with a high number of feeder primary
schools.

Quality of teaching and learning
The quality of teaching and learning is low, both at primary and secondary level. The results of the
MinimumCompetency Test (MCT), introduced in Language and Mathematics in 1999 for Grade 4 and in
2000 for Form ID of secondary, show that the majority of students had not acquired an acceptable level
of literacy and numeracy knowledge and skills, as outlined in the curriculum, to move them to the next
school level. Equally alarming are the results of graduating students on the CXC exams. Only 13% of
those who sat for the exams in 2001 passed five subject areas, including English and Math (see
comparative datafor the OECS region in Table 1 below). Although students show high performance in
some areas, such as a 90 percent pass rate in Information Technology, fewer than 50% of the students
pass the core academic courses such as English (45%), Physics (40%), Chemistry (32%) and
Mathematics (23%). Among the main factors that contribute to these low student achievement results are:


     Inadequately developed curriciilum and poor support to students Liith leaming dificulties: As is the
     case in many OECS countries, the curriculum is imbalanced and insufficient to meet society's current
     needs and does not appeal to the interests of many students. It includes subjects and subject content
     which need further rationalization, and there are few options for students interested in technical and
     vocational training. The core curriculum defined by the OERU will ensure development of


                                                   - 8 -

fundamental skills for all students, but it has yet to be applied in any of the countries. Grenada's
current curriculum offers a multiplicity of options too early in the students' school career, resulting in
superficial coverage of many subjects. As a result, many children enter the job market with
certification but without basic knowledge and skills, and those who are pushed into Senior Primary
often exit without any kind of leaving or completion certificate. About 10 percent of Grenadian
students have learning difficulties, yet teachers have not been trained to identify the problems or
understand the causes, nor how better to support the students. Even among those with some basic
understanding, it is usually difficult for them to assist these students in the normal classroom setting.


Low teacher qualifications, insufficient training and lack of incentives: Teachers' qualifications are
low. This problem i s more acute at the secondary level, where only 32 percent of the teachers are
certified (versus 85 percent of primary teachers). Teacher turnover is also very high at secondary
level (teacher attrition is 11.3 percent in secondary and 3.2 percent in primary). Teacher training
modalities have largely been in-service, providing initial training to many teachers who entered the
workforce with no formal teacher training. As in the other OECS countries, the Government also
offers paid leave to teachers to gain appropriate training. This system i s considered inefficient due to
the cost of replacing the teachers during their training period and because a low number of teachers
pass the exams after the training (27 of 50 in 2001 and 34 of 48 in 2002). In an effort to find
alternative solutions, the MOE introduced a pre-service training programme in September 2002 (the
first of its kindamong the OECS countries). Some 20 students are currently enrolled in the program.
In addition to problems of low qualification, the teaching profession lacks much needed incentives to
keep good teachers. The MOE needs to define a clear career path for teachers, with a specific
promotion policy based on equity and merits with appropriate incentives. Instruments related to
professional standards and induction of new teachers, including suitable internship and mentoring
programs, should be reviewed and/or introduced. Finally the teacher supervision system should be
strengthened to provide support for professional development and enhanced teacher performance.

InsufJicient instructional materials and education equipment to support student-centered learning
approaches: Secondary schools are characterized by the absence of basic educational materials and
equipment to support student-centered classroom teaching and learning. Those school libraries that
exist are poorly stocked and under-used, and computers are not systematically connected to the
internet. Science laboratories are poorly equipped and the computer laboratories, when existing, are
under-used due to insufficient access to educational software, poor maintenance of the hardware and
exclusive rights to students in the upper tracks. The conditions make it extremely difficult to
implement student-centered approaches, such as group or team work, independent research projects,
science experiments and other hands-on learning methods. Finally, teachers and educational support
staff require more appropriate training to use existing and proposed new equipment.

Need to enhance evaluation programs: Grenada made significant progress in improving its student
assessment system under the BERP. An Educational Testing and Examinations Unit (EXT) was
created in 1997 and its staff was trained in testing and measurement. The unit has produced test
results since 1998, and teachers have used these evaluations at the schools to assess and address
teachers' and students' weaknesses. The Minimum Competency Test was also introduced for Grade 4
and for Form IIIof secondary. The test was an important piece of the education reform effort to
assess to what degree students have achieved the minimum knowledge and skills stipulated in the
curriculum. Duringthe BERP, efforts were made as well to start using the Common Entrance Exam
(CEE) and the Caribbean Examination Council exam (CXC) as diagnostic tools to monitor learning
and to improve quality. In the case of the CEE, a written part was added to the multiple choice part of



                                                 - 9 -

     the test. This change has given the MOE deeper knowledge of the language, writing and analytical
     skills acquired by primary school students. The MOE prepared a report presenting some degree of
     analysis of the students' answers and results were distributed to the schools. The change in the test
     and distributionof results have positively impacted teaching.

    Although national tests have contributed to student evaluation, the subject content taught and the
    methods of assessment vary from school to school and from teacher to teacher. EXT has aimed to
    train one person per school to take responsibility for testing aspects, but the schools have sent a
    different person to each training session, resulting in poor understanding and use of evaluation and
    its results at the school level. Further efforts are needed to strengthen assessment, to seek
    intermediate forms of evaluation so as not to rely on end-of-year and national tests as the only
    benchmark for performance, to use the evaluations as quality assessment mechanisms and to provide
    feedback to students, teachers and parents.

    Insuficient school community participation and supportfor students: The overall atmosphere of the
    school, given the issues cited above, and insufficient communication between major stakeholders
    create an environment that i s not conducive to pedagogical improvements and that does not respond
    to real needs, interests, expectations and culture of the students. There i s a lack of activities in which
    students can take initiatives and voice their concerns, teachers and principals maintain a hierarchical
    structure and the involvement o f the parents is insufficient to motivate and support the school and the
    students.

    Some students experience behavioral problems, violence, drugs, family abuse and anti-social
    behavior. School professionals are not properly trained and do not have adequate communication
    skills to face these problems. Previously the MOE's Guidance and Counseling unit was staffed with
    two officers who were responsible for all the guidance and counseling services for the country's
    schools. In November 2002, nine teachers were assigned by parish as guidance and counseling
    assistants to perform these duties in schools. Only four of them have degrees in this area. Training i s
    required to upgrade their skills and knowledge, to enable them to provide more effective and efficient
    services. Even with the addition of these professionals, the ratio of guidance counselors to secondary
    students is 1:900. Schools also lack peer or mentoring programs through which students could benefit
    from support and advice from individuals closer to them in age, experiences or interests.

Management and administrationof education
Improvements in management and administration are perceived as key to improve sector performance.
Under the BERP, Grenada made progress on this front. As outlined above, it reorganized the MOE,
creating four new units (a Project Management Unit, an Educational Planning and Statistical Unit, an
Educational Testing and Exams Unit and an Educational Materials Unit). It produced its first Statistical
Digest, gathering data from the education sector, and it achieved efficiency gains with the construction of
the new building for the MOE, allowing for full use of equipment and an enhanced working environment.
Nevertheless, an audit of the structure and management of the MOE was carried out in August 2000,
which identified the need for a set of additional reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness and
efficiency of management in the Ministry and in schools. The main recommendations suggested a
number of structural changes, in particular: (a) to strengthen coordination and eliminate overlaps within
the M O E (partially achieved through the move to the new M O E building) and (b) to strengthen the
information system (EMIS) to support informed and effective decision-making. Although Grenada
successfully founded an EMIS system under the BERP, it needs further development, additional training
of personnel to achieve systematized data collection, and support in monitoring and evaluation of sector
performance.



                                                    - 1 0 -

The audit also advised the M O E to continue to build its planning capacity, initiated through the creation
of the Planning Unit but requiring further strengthening and decentralization to include district offices
and schools. It identified deficiencies in the supervision system, mainly: (i)the lack of coordination and
collaboration between units with supervision responsibilities (the Curriculum Development Unit, the
School Administration and Management Unit and the Education Officers); and (ii)insufficient support to
schools due to the geographic dispersion of assigned schools to Education Officers. The M O E has
recently reorganized the EOs so that they each concentrate on a given district.

Finally, the audit recommended "cultural" changes at the M O E and school levels. The M O E should move
from a traditional command and control maintenance administration to a proactive institution, centered
on providing support to schools, with strategic thinking and management. As schools are given greater
responsibilities, they will need to strengthen overall school governance. This will require training of
principals in management, expansion of the levels of parent participation and increased autonomy and
capacity of the schools to manage small maintenance budgets and apply site-based activities and
innovations.

                                               Table 1: Someeducationdata
              ?ducation        Net enrollment Repetition rat<                            Gross             Repetition  Proportion of
              3xpenditure      rate in primary in primary                                                              students
              'GDP             education       education                                 (Form 5)          secondary   passing at
                                                                                                           education   least 5
                                                                                                                       subjects at the

                                                                        I                                              CXC (b)
 St. Lucia     6.6%            98%             2.2%          70%        I64%                               0.2%         27%
               (2000)          (2000)          (2000)                                     (2000)           (2000)       (2000) (e)


                                                                                        I
               6.7%            85%             2.2%          83%         73%                                           52%
 Dominica      (1999)          (2000)          (2000)        (1999)      (2000)                                         (1998)

               6.2% (a)        98%             3.0%           100%       90%                              5.2%
 St. Kitts and (1999)          (2000)           (2000)       (1999)                     (2000)             (2000)
 Nevis                                                                   (2000)


                7%             99%             2.8%          60%         62%                               1.3%         13%
 Grenada        (2000)         (2000)          (2000)        (1999)      (2000)          (2000)           (2000)       (2000) (d)

 St. Vincent   6.3%            98%             10.6%         60%         54%                              9.5%         N.A.
 and the                       (2000)          (2000)        (2000)      (2000)         (2000)             (2000)
 Grenadines    (1999)



                                             I                          I                                I
     Sources: World Bank. 4onitoring Educational Performancein the Caribbean (Report No. 24337). Washington, D ,2003:

     Dominica-Ministry of Education (2000);St. Kitts and Nevis-Ministry of Education(2000);Grenada-Ministryof Education
     (2000)and St. Vincent and the Grenadines-Ministryof Education (2000).
     Notes: (a) Education Expenditure/CNP:(b) Studentspassinga minimum of 5 general/technical subjects as a proportion of
     the students sitting the CXC: (cj Students passing a minimum of 5 generalitechnical subjects, including Mathand English,
     as 3 proportion of the students sitting the CXC; (d) studentspassing4 CXC includingEnglish and Math.




                                                              - 11-

GovernmentStratew

Grenada, like all the countries participating in this program, engaged recently in the preparation o f a
long-range education sector plan (SPEED). The process was highly participatory, including meetings
across the island with key stakeholders. In its plan, the Government has indicated a strong commitment to
education. Six areas of focus have been identified in SPEED: (i)access to education for the whole
population; (ii)improved equity of education and student achievement; (iii)increased relevance of
knowledge and work-related skills of the country's human resources; (iv) strengthened relationships with
education partners; (v) improved efficiency of the MOE and school management; and (vi) consistent
government financing and efficient use of resources.

The Government of Grenada (GOG) has maintaineda continuous commitment to education over the past
30 years that has led to nearly universal coverage in primary education. The GOG has agreed to maintain
significant and consistent public investment in education, as indicated by the levels of education
expenditure as a percentage of GDP. In terms of access, the Government is placing emphasis on: (i)
providing greater access by increasing the number of spaces available in secondary school, targeting
overcrowded schools and areas with low income student populations; and (ii)refurbishing existing
facilities, especially in schools with fewer resources, to provide equitable access to secondary education.

The GOGi s also focusing on the improvement of quality education at all levels. Grenada is: (i)   designing
programs to improve literacy and numeracy skills for low-achieving students in primary and secondary
schools; (ii)increasing training opportunities to raise teacher qualifications and seeking more efficient
training methods; (iii)reforming the secondary school curriculum to make it more relevant to the needs
of the society; (iv) equipping secondary schools with the facilities, materials and technology to promote
student-centered learning and (v) increasing the use of diagnostic assessment mechanisms. The Ministry
of Education (MOE) has identified as priority activities the review and development of the professional
standards of the teaching service, including mentoring programs, performance indicators and an
improved supervision system to support professionaldevelopment and enhance teacher performance.

In the area of governance and management, the Government has begun to address some of the existing
weaknesses, in line with the SPEED, by reforming the supervision system to include: (i)Education
Districts defined geographically to achieve focused supervision by Education Officers and Early
Childhood Supervisors; and (ii)Supervision Teams for each education district. Each team comprises an
education officer, an early childhood supervisor, technical professionals from the MOE, faculty from the
Teacher Education Department of TAMCC and key actors in the education sector at the parish and
district level. The supervision teams are responsible for developing and implementing a strategic plan for
district improvement, based on the needs and priorities identified.           The Education Management
Information System will be crucial in providing timely and reliable information to measure school
performance and to assist in establishing sector policies and options. Also key in the supervision process
will be to put in place School Development Plans drawn up by the school community, which will
establish the strategic goals of each school and provide indicators by which to measure school
performance.




                                                    - 12-

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project andstrategic choices:
The proposed Project aims to assist the GOG in implementing their strategic sector plan efforts and
achieving the goals established in the SPEED by providing technical and financial support for a set of
initiatives. These include: (i)providing more equitable access to secondary education; (ii)improving
completion rates by providing better quality teachers and school resources, emphasizing literacy and
numeracy skills and expanding and better targeting student support services and (iii)improving
educational management.

Expanded access to secondary education
The GOG has set the goal of universal secondary enrollment as a high priority, as reflected in the
SPEED. Though population trends show that this may occur naturally by 2010, the GOG is anxious to
provide additional places now to expand the capacity of secondary schools. A preliminary census and
enrollment analysis has shown that while total enrollment for primary is at 85% of school capacity, the
country's capacity for secondary is exceeded by 1396, clearly demonstrating an immediate need for
secondary places. Further school mapping is providing the MOE with specific information on the
availability of existing spaces and unmet demand needs and has identified areas of recent migration that
have resulted in overcrowding in some schools. New places will be created through expansion and
equipping of classrooms in three schools that are significantly overcrowded and serve a large number o f
students from low income families.

Better quality teaching and student evaluation
Good teachers are key to implementation o f a successful education program. The GOG has established
improved quality of teaching and learning as a top priority. While the pilot pre-service teacher training
program may be expanded, the GOG still needs to address the 70% of secondary teachers who have not
been trained to the certificate level. A select few teachers will train overseas, while others will do
distance and local training. Fellowship recipients will participate in local training upon their return.
Training workshops will offer content and pedagogy, skills in early identification of learning difficulties
and ways to address them, and innovative methods for teaching literacy and numeracy. They will also
strive to change teachers' current practices and attitudes, moving them away from top-down imparting of
knowledge to facilitation of learning and exploring, and encouraging continuous assessment to monitor
student progress throughout the year. This student-centred teaching approach and transformation o f the
monitoring and evaluation culture will be among the most challenging goals to achieve.

Better quality school resources
The Government will seek ways to apply the new core curriculum for Forms Ito JII, in line with the
regional efforts. Grant fundinghas supported technical assistance to this end, and the Project will provide
the necessary training, learning materials and equipment to implement the curriculum and support
teachers in the more student-centred approach to learning. Learning spaces will be reconfigured and the
quality of the facilities and learning materials will be improved. Most o f the secondary school libraries
and science labs are in poor physical condition and lack materials and updated equipment. The Project
will finance four new learningresource centers and eleven new science labs.

Enhanced school environment and more targetedsupport to students
In addition to the physical improvements to schools, the MOE has recognized the need to enhance the
school environment, to make it more attractive for students and more conducive to teaching and learning.
Students express disinterest in school and a feeling of not belonging. School Improvement Projects
(SIPS) have been identified as an effective way of creating partnerships throughout the school
community, fostering ownership and stimulatinginnovation in education. And student-led extracurricular
activities, selected and managed by the students themselves. will allow students to define and explore



                                                   -13-

their own interests and give them an avenue for more creative expression. A host of social problems
plague students in addition to learning difficulties, yet they have nowhere to go for help. Though the
MOE has assigned nine new Guidance Counselling assistants to work with the two MOE Guidance
Counselors, this i s still insufficient for the needs of the 19 secondary schools. The Project will assist the
MOE in achieving the SPEED goal of providing one trained counselor per school, and a new peer
counseling and mentoring program will give students another avenue for expressing their needs.

Improved governance and management
The MOE has traditionally acted as a command control center in a hierarchical education system. One of
the SPEED priorities is to move towards a culture of service, focusing more on policy making and
oversight o f the system while district teams assist schools, and school communities take greater
responsibility for the teaching and learning process. The Project will assist in this process, strengthening
the management o f the sector and governance of schools by (i)       expanding the Education Management
Information System (EMIS) to link schools with each other and with the MOE at the central level,
including reporting and supervision mechanisms and the establishment of quality standards to be
monitored on a continuous basis; (ii)    strengthening technical and supervisory services and establishing a
revised supervision system with Educational Districts and (iii)offering leadership and management
training to principals and extending initial training on the use of School Development Plans to
include the involvement of teachers, students, parents and the wider community in school
development planning.


4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
In this "horizontal" APL, phased support is provided for a long-term development program. The term
horizontal implies that the instrument is being applied sequentially across countries in the sub-region to
allow countries to join the program when they are ready. The countries implement their projects
simultaneously and mechanisms are evolvingfor sharing experiences among them.

The program supports the education development of Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, Dominica
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Each country joins the program as they meet the following
established criteria for participation:

0   Adoption by their Government of a long-term Education Development Plan;
0   Readiness of a project proposal to improvequality and access to secondary education;
0   Establishment of a Project Management Unit whose composition is satisfactory to the Bank;
0   Credit worthiness indicators (net international reserves, debt to GDP and debt service to exports of
    goods and non factor services) that remain within reasonable ranges; and
0   Counterpart funding availability for the project.

St. Kittsand Nevis and St. Lucia were the first to join the program. Grenada i s the third country to do so.
The others are likely to join the program in FY04and FY0.5.

C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (seeAnnex 2 for adetailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):

The design of the proposed Project builds on the achievements of the BERP and will assist the
Government in its efforts to carry out its long-term sector strategy (SPEED). To meet the established



                                                      - 14-

objectives, the proposed Project consists of three main components and a project management component
to provide oversight and coordination of project implementation. Project components are summarized
below:
Component 1.IncreasingEquitableAccess
1.1Expansionand rehabilitationofsecondarvschools.
This sub-component will finance minor expansions in three existing secondary schools in the parishes of
St. George, St. Andrew and St. David, to relieve overcrowding and better meet the demand for secondary
education in these underserved areas. It will add a total of 520 new places in secondary education by
2008. New classrooms will be built and equipped in (i)Grenada Boys Secondary School, in St George,
adding 200 additional spaces and increasing total capacity to nine hundred students; (ii)Grenville
Secondary School in St. Andrew, adding 120 new spaces and increasing total capacity to 650 students
and (iii)in Westerhall Secondary School in St. David, adding 200 new places and increasing total
capacity to 520 students. Furniture and equipment will also be provided.

Component2. ImprovingQuality
2.1 Development of Curriculumfor Forms Ito I11
The curriculum for the lower secondary level (Forms Ito ID) will be reoriented, emphasizing the
improvement of students' literacy and numeracy skills. The Project will provide training and support for
the implementation of the revised curriculum. The curriculum reform process will be based on a core
curriculum uolicy that has been developed by the OERU with input from the OECS MOEs. This core
curriculumpolicy determines the number and type of courses to be offered in Forms Ito III.  Subiect area
policies will be developed by the MOE during the first year of project implementation in line with the
general core curriculumpolicy.

The main activities for this sub-component are: (i)training workshops for all principals, teachers and
supervisors in the implementation of the new curriculum; (ii)overseas or distance training for four
teachers in two-year programs in creative and performing arts; (iii)the development and implementation
of a Literacy Enhancement and Achievement Programme (LEAP) and a numeracy program; (iv) a
summer camp pilot experience to enhance literacy and numeracy, replicating the design of similar
successful NGO and church-run learning camps in the country; (v) the creation of Learning Resource
Centers in four secondary schools (to be complemented by UNESCO-financed language labs); (vi)
upgrading of the science laboratories in eleven secondary schools, based on international standards; and
(vii) printing of the new curricula and of the manual for science labs for dissemination to all relevant
users.
2.2 Upgradingof Teacher Skills
This subcomponent will improve the quality of teaching at the secondary level, implementing a range of
training programs for teachers, based on the strategy designed by the consultants during project
preparation. The focus will be on student-centred learning. The training will include: (i)
                                                                                         local training for
250 classroom teachers and 28 technical teachers to the certificate level; (ii)distance training for 40
technical teachers to the degree level; (iii)overseas training for four Special Educators to the degree
level, including specialists to work with visually and auditory-impaired students, and specialists in
remedial teaching and (iv) overseas postgraduate training for ten teacher educators, including four
technical teachers.

The Project will also increase the capacity of the T.A. Marryshow Community College (TAMCC) to
provide teacher training by creating a model classroom and supporting the upgrading of its ICT facilities



                                                   -15-

and equipment, includinglibrary materials and instruments requiredfor teacher training. The focus of the
teacher training activities will be on the skills required to implement the new curriculum. Training will
be offered initially by trained professionals in the areas of language arts, social studies, math and
education psychology. Additional training will be offered in other areas as the teacher educators finalize
their overseas training. A clear plan will be established to ensure that fellows provide training to their
colleagues upon their return.
2.3 Student AssessmentSystem
The quality of assessment in the lower forms of secondary schools will be improved under the Project,
and a system of programs will be implemented to support students with learning difficulties. This
sub-component will finance: (i)new software to strengthen the processing and analysis of test scores and
student assessment; (ii)training of staff in the use of this software; (iii)initial training to selected
teachers, principals and Education Officers on early detection of learning difficulties and continuous
assessment skills; (iv) workshops on math and language skills for selected teachers, principals and
education officers, to be tied in with continuous assessment; and (v) development and printing of
handbooks for teachers on continuous assessment. The specialized training for secondary teachers on the
early detection of learning difficulties complements training currently offered to primary teachers
through a CDB-financed project and will strengthen support to students, especially those who are being
left behind.

2.4 ImDroving Student Support Services
Existing programs will be improved to assist students who are most in need, and new mechanisms will be
introduced to enhance students' willingness and ability to successfully participate in the educational
process. This component supports several activities in addition to the teacher training on early detection
o f learning difficulties and improved teaching of literacy and numeracy skills described above. They are:
(i)the development of a textbook rental scheme; (ii)training for Guidance Counselors; (iii)peer
counseling and mentorship programs and (iv) development and implementation of student-led
co-curricular activities.

Component 3. Strengthening Governance and Management
3.1Strengtheningschoolsupervision and management
This sub-component will support the Government's efforts to improve the level and efficiency of
supervision at the school level. Existing classrooms in seven schools - one in each district - will be
refurbished to be used as District Education Offices for each of the District Supervision Teams. Training
workshops in school supervision techniques and teacher performance evaluation will be organizedfor the
supervision teams. The supervision teams will be multidisciplinary and include school supervisors,
curriculum officers, counselors, testing and measurement officers and representatives of school councils
in order to provide professional support. Training in school management also will be conducted for some
80 principals and other senior administrators at the school and ministry levels and 14 curriculum and
ECD specialists, and school principals will be trained in improved use of School Development Plans
(SDPs). The SDPs will provide the basis for the development of School Improvement Projects (SIPS).
3.2 Educational Management Information Svstem (EMIS)
The EMIS will be upgraded and expanded under this sub-component (EMIS) to provide updated sector
information to policy makers. This subcomponent will finance: (i)design and commissioning of
customized EMIS software or purchase o f relevant off-the-shelf software, including statistical software to
be used by schools; (ii)upgrading of the system hardware and (iii)training for relevant personnel
(approximately 140people) in the use of the new software package and statistics packages.


                                                    - 16-

3.3 Improving communication and participation
This sub-component will support the dissemination of information on the educational reform process
 with the objective of enhancing stakeholders' involvement in and ownership of the process.
Communication efforts will target a wide range of stakeholders (teachers, students, parents, trade union,
business sector, community and non-governmental organizations) using print and broadcast media and
participatory activities. Competitions in art, written essays, poetry or debate will also be held annually to
generate interest in the education reform at the secondary school level and among the general public.
This sub-component will finance: (i)printing of information materials (brochures, posters, billboards,
flier and new releases); (ii)production and recording of materials to be broadcast (iii)participatory
workshops and debates and (iv) trophies and cash prizes to winners of the competitions.




  1. EXPANSION OF SECONDARY SCHOOLS
  1.1. Expansion and rehabilitation of existing secondary            1.17        10.4         0.89         11.1
 schools

 2. QUALITY TEACHING AND LEARNING
 2.1. Development o f curriculum for Forms Ito III                   5.85        51.8         4.46         55.8
 2.2. Upgradingo f teacher skills                                    0.62          5.5        0.35          4.4
 2.3. Improving student assessment system                            0.19          1.7        0.08          1.o
 2.4. Improving student support services                             1.12          9.9        0.68          8.5

 3. STRENGTHENING GOVERNANCE AND
 MANAGEMENT
 3.1. Strengthening school supervision and management                0.74          6.5        0.58          7.3
 3.2. Educational management information system                      0.78          6.9        0.56          7.0
 3.3. Improvingcommunication and participation                       0.05          0.4        0.03          0.4

 4. Project Management                                               0.74          6.5        0.33          4.1


                                          Total Project Costs       11.26        99.6         7.96         99.5
                                                Front-end fee        0.04          0.4        0.04          0.5
                                 Total FinancingRequired            11.30       100.0         8.00        100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project design will support these main areas of reform:

Curriculum reform of Forms Ito JII. All the OECS countries have agreed, as part of a regional initiative
led by the OERU, on the development of a core curriculum for Forms Ito IJI of secondary. The
curriculum aims to: (i)provide the basic skills for all the students: (ii)adapt the contents to address the
specific regionai issues: (mi
                           ...\ .
                                         '    m~teehmhgyatx3wdyxts.liV)ctri                  ve to m a k e ~d
content more relevant and thereby more attractive to students and (v) focus more on core subject areas
and reduce the number of electives to make education more cost effective at this level. The proposed



                                                    - 17-

 Project will assist in the provision of instructional materials and training of teachers to meet new
 curriculum needs. It also will ensure that school rehabilitation and equipment are in line with more
 student-centered pedagogical approaches.

 Progress in education decentralization. empowering the school community to make schools more
 effective. The empowerment of the school community is perceived as a key element to make schools
 more effective, to improve the learning environment and to make it more attractive to students. Grenada,
 like the other OECS countries, has highlighted in the SPEED the need to enable greater school leadership
 in planning and decision-malung. This effort will be supported by several activities: (a) each school will
design and implement a school-based improvement project, addressing some issue identified in the
school development plan and elaborated with the participation of the principals, teachers, students,
parents and community leaders; (b) students will drive the selection and implementation of co-curricular
activities and (c) each school will be connected to and will contribute data to the EMIS system.

Revised supervision and evaluation. The Project will support the ongoing effort initiated by the M O E to
improve the supervision system, decentralizing it to the District level to allow for more focused and
efficient supervision. The MOE will support the creation of multidisciplinary supervision teams to work
with teachers to identify problems and seek solutions, usingEMIS data, test scores, teachers' reports and
the School Development Plans as a guide. Through systematic and well-designed training, the Project
will support the implementation of continuous assessment of students' progress in schools. This will
deepen the MOE's efforts to establish a culture of evaluation in the education system, where each
evaluation tool provides the teaching community with elements to guide them on how to improve student
achievement.

3. Benefits and targetpopulation:
The expected benefits of this program are significant. Through implementation o f project activities, there
will be improvement in the quality of secondary education, ensuring that more students are able to fully
benefit from better secondary education, in contrast to the current situation. Educational achievement
will be higher, leading eventually to higher productivity and an increase in earnings. Completion of the
secondary cycle by a greater number of students will offer more opportunities at the tertiary level, more
skilled workers for the labor market, and students better equipped to get more qualified and better paying
jobs.

Another benefit which will follow from increased enrollment in specific areas targeted by the Project is
the reduction of out-of-school youth with a possible consequent reduction in violence and societal risk.
Improving school climates and keeping students in school has proved to be the most cost-effective way of
reducing youth violence.

Finally, the improved governance and the curriculum reform will lead to efficiency gains in the education
process that will translate into a reallocation of funds from salaries to non-salary recurrent expenditures.
This will allow for greater investments inquality.

Target population
The equitable access component of the project will benefit especially the secondary school-age children
in most populated and underserved areas. Less able learners will be targeted with specially designed
support programs.     The quality component of the project will benefit all the secondary education
students.




                                                    - 18-

4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements:
Project coordination and management
The implementing entity for this project will be the Ministry of Education (MOE), which oversaw the
successful implementation of the Basic Education Reform Project (BERP), funded in part by the World
Bank. Within the MOE, a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established, utilizing the structure
established under the recently completed BERP. The PMU staff comprises a Project Manager, a Project
Accountant, a Secretary, a Procurement Officer, a School Supplies Officer and an assistant. Due to the
added workload likely to be associated with the School Improvement Projects (SIP), the PMU will add an
Accounts Clerk, who will mainly be responsible for preparing payment vouchers with supporting
documentation, responding to vendor inquiries and assisting the Project Accountant. The MOE's
financial analyst will be responsible for overseeing the financial aspects of Project implementation.

The P M U is responsible for the management and administration of the project, including its overall
coordination and implementation, coordination of the contributions of entities participating in this
project, communication with the World Bank and the Department for International Development (DFID),
procurement of all civil works, goods and services under the project, preparation of progress reports,
maintenance of all project financial accounts and preparation and processing of applications for
withdrawals of proceeds from the Loan. Financial Management and Procurement specialists have
conducted capacity assessments, and both considered the staffing and respective arrangements to be
acceptable.

Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation
Project components will be executed by the respective MOE units, with oversight by the PMU.
Implementation of the project will be guided by the Project Operational Manual (POM) which will
include an implementation plan, the Financial Management Manual and a detailed procurement plan.
Thefinal issuance of the POM will be a conditionfor effectiveness of the Loan.

The implementing units will provide regularly scheduled progress reports to the PMU. The PMU, in turn,
will report project progress on a quarterly basis to the Bank, according to agreed upon performance
indicators (seeAnnex 1).

Accounting, financial reporting and auditing requirements
The financial management and control procedures o f the project will be outlined in the POM. This
includes the TORS for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank. The P M U will prepare
Financial Management Reports (FMRs) which will include a statement of sources and uses of funds
(including a six month forecast), a statement of uses of funds by project activity, an output monitoring
report and a procurement report, according to Bank regulations and project guidelines. The project will
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports will be submitted to
the Bank no later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. Details of all financial management
arrangements may be found in Annex 6.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection:
FOCL~Ssecondary education vs. whole-sector reform initiatives: Although some of the activities will
       on
cut across levels, such as institutional strengthening and training, the decision was made to focus mainly

and the CDB-financed project in St. Kitts and Nevis supported basic education reform in the respective



                                                    - 19-

countries, and in Grenada the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) currently i s providing funds for
curriculum reform at the lower and senior primary levels, training for special education specialists for
primary, training on early identification of learning difficulties for primary school teachers (to be linked
with the training the proposed Project will support for secondary), technical and vocational training and a
school supervision design (to be used as the framework for school supervision and training under the
proposed Project). The BERP projects have improved primary education quality and all the countries
have achieved universal primary enrollment. This APL program builds on these achievements to make
quality secondary education available to the increasing demand, and compliments other donor-funded
activities.

Emphasis on improvement of literacy and numeracy skills vs. support for a wider range of skills:
Although the emphasis in St. Lucia and St. Kitts and Nevis, under Phase Iof this APL program, has been
more general, the extremely low scores in Math and Englishon the Minimum Competency Test and the
CXC exams indicate an urgent need to focus specifically on better teaching of literacy and numeracy
skills in Grenada. In this Project, a conscious effort has been made to target different interventions in this
area, including aspects of teacher training, additional training in continuous evaluation for math and
language teachers, and innovative activities in the classroom focusing on literacy and numeracy.

2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                    atest SI

                                                                             (Bank-finance
                                                                                     (PSW

                                                                            Implementation     Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)    Objective(DO)
                                                                                    S               S

 teaching and leaming and                 (PE-PO75978) and
                                          St. Lucia OECS Education

 schools

                                                                                    S                S


 opportunities at the primary level       Reform (PE-P043923)

                                                                                    S                S




                                                                                    S                S



                                                                                   ~ -


 impact of the reform


                                                    - 20 -

 lther development agencies
 [mprove quality o f primary education       St. Kitts & Nevis Basic
 and increase access to secondary            Education Project (CDB, 1996)
 :ducation

 Strengthen secondary education in           Dominica Secondary Education
 Dominica through school construction Support Project (DFID, 1998)


 4ssist Governments to produce              Education Sector Strategic Plan
 ong-range sector strategic plans            (DFID,Belize, St. Lucia,
                                            Dominica-1999; Grenada-2001;
                                             St. Vincent and the Grenadines
                                            -2002)

 lontribute to poverty eradication and      Belize Education Sector
 ;ustainable development through            Improvement Project (DFID,
 mproved education                          2001

 Zxpand and improve the secondary           Trinidad & Tobago Program of
 :ducation sector                           Secondary Education Project
                                            (IADB, 1999)

 :mprove the quality of the education       Barbados Education Sector
 ;ector through the use of modem            Improvement Program (IADB,
 echnology                                   1998)

                                            I




 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HC Highly Unsatisf:ory)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Donor co-ordination with single-source firnding: Projects that are excessively complex, with
multi-countries, multi-donors and multi-source funding have proven difficult to implement. The aim o f
this program is to improve donor coordination, stimulate donor investments and reduce transaction costs
but avoid the rigidity and complexity of a co-financed loan. The Bank is engaged in dialogue and parallel
coordination of actions with major donors (DFID,CIDA, OECS/OERU and EU) in the planning of sector
investments and the design of the program. DFID and the Bank are working closely together in the
preparation and implementation of this program, ana BMD is p r o v i d m H & q .




                                                       - 21 -

Community participation in design and participation of projects: All the countries have noted the
importance of involving stakeholders in the development of sector plans and have adopted a highly
participatory process to establish their national long-range education plans. In Grenada, participation of
stakeholders who will be involved in project implementation is perceived as key to promote ownership of
project activities and gain support for project interventions. Working groups for each component have
included a wide range of stakeholders, and their participation has contributed to tailor the design and
provide a source of quality control of project outputs. Bringingteachers on board early is also key to the
success o f education reforms. In Grenada, teacher participation was crucial for the introduction of the
MinimumCompetency Test (MCT) and the acceptanceof changes madeto the CEE.

Evaluation culture and mechanisms: Loosely controlled education investments have been replaced by
evaluation mechanisms with accountability implications. The Santiago-based OREALC "Education
Quality Laboratories" program has been pivotal in supporting evaluation agencies such as SIMCE
(System for the Measurement of Educational Quality) in Chile, and UMRE (Educational Outcomes
Measurement Unity) in Uruguay. The Indonesia PEQIP Project and the UNESCO 27-country MLA
(Monitoring LearningAchievement) exemplify good learning evaluation practices. The proposed Project
promotes tested evaluation and supervision strategies and builds on initiatives established during the
previous Bank-financed project.

Zmportance of communication: Grenada's BERF' illustrated that promoting greater communication among
the different units involved in an education reform program was crucial to reinforce the work
individually done by each unit and to avoid situations where the units are unaware o f activities underway
that should be complementary. It was also felt that a communication strategy was necessary to convey
overall efforts in education reforms.

School improvement projects:       The Bank has found, in countries across the region, that school
improvement projects have proved to be one of the most effective agents of change in schools. Chile's
school-based Education Improvement Projects (PME) and extra-curricular activities (ACLES) are among
the most successful and innovative components of the MECE projects. This i s also true of Uruguay's
MECAEP projects (PMEs) and Paraguay's Innovative Education Projects (PIES).They have successfully
involved students, teachers, parents and community leaders in the quest for improved education
responsive to local needs and have increased educational leadership among teachers and principals,
improved communication between the school and the community and enhanced teaching practices. The
ACLES have allowed students more expression in determining the activities that are interesting and
meaningful to them, within the safe structure of the school community. This project will incorporate
these same types of innovative activities to promote school-based management, improve the school
environment and address existing problems with youth at risk.




                                                   - 22 -

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Grenada has established the educational strategy and priorities for the country in its SPEED, as have the
other OECS countries. This sector plan was elaborated with conscious inclusion of a wide range of
stakeholders. The Government has committed to carry forward the reform proposals by way of concrete
actions within a limited period of time. Grenada requested follow-up funding to the recently closed
World Bank-financed education project (BERP) in order to continue bolstering the education reform
process and PHRD funding for preparation activites. The proposed Project design is rooted in the
SPEED. The Impact Evaluation study for the BERP, as well as other sector studies, have informed the
proposed Project preparation process, providing lessons learned to guide the project design. Grenada
created a project preparation committee and working groups for each Project component, including a
wide range of stakeholders to gain different perspectives and ensure ownership at different levels during
Project preparation and implementation.

Grenada participated in the Regional Meetings of the Americas "Education for All" in Santo Doming0 in
February 2000 to formulate a Regional Action Plan 2000-2015 which was presented at the Conference in
Dakar in April 2000. The country also participated in the drafting of the Caribbean Education Strategy
issued by the World Bank in 2000. The GOG is committed to seeking regional solutions to common
problems and participates regularly in pertinent sector discussions and activities. Just in the last year, the
country sent representatives to a Bank-financed curriculum workshop to review advances in curriculum
reform for the first three years of secondary education and to a DFID-financed teacher training workshop
to discuss new training strategies. They have committed to supporting the regional initiatives by the
OERUand will use these to advance their individualcountry efforts.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
    The Bank has a standing commitment to provide financial and technical assistance to the Caribbean
    region and an ongoing relationship with the Ministries o f Education. A collaborative approach has
    yielded increased cooperation between the Bank and the countries, and among countries.
    The Bank participated in the Caribbean Education Task Force in its quest to establish a regional
    strategy and is knowledgeable about regional sector issues.
    The Bank has carried out extensive sector work in secondary education and can provide best practice
    examples of initiatives at this level. Particular to this project, the Bank's team offers expertise and
    familiarity with international secondary education reforms and school-based programs for youth,
    particularly in Chile, Uruguay, Argentina andParaguay.
    The Bank has encouraged collaboration among donors and regional agencies (DFID, CDB, EU,
    CIDA, OECS/OERU) to maximize sector funding and avoid duplication of efforts, and has assisted
    in mobilizingadditional sources of financing.
    The Bank organized and financed a regional curriculum workshop, allowing OECS representatives to
    engage in consensus building around lower secondary curriculum issues. DFID, CXC and OERU
    representatives also participated to ensure collaboration among donors and regional agencies.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
   Cost benefit         NPV=US$17.2 million; ERR= 30 % (see Annex 4)
   Cost effectiveness
   Other (specify)
The main benefits of the project will be in the quality area. By promoting substantial quality
improvements in the secondary education cycle, the project will lead to decreased drop-outs and higher



                                                    - 23 -

educational achievement which will both translate into higher earnings through a higher number of
graduates and higher productivity gains associated with secondary education.

The economic analysis attempts to quantify these benefits,finding them significant (analysis presented in
Annex 4). More specifically, the benefits from decreased drop-outs were estimated applying the
discounted stream of incremental earnings associated with secondary education to the additional students
able to finish the secondary cycle following the quality interventions. Additionally, the benefits from
increased educational achievement required us to: (a) assess the impact that quality interventions have on
educational achievement proxied by exam passing rates; (b) assess the differential in secondary education
earnings related to different levels of educational achievement (proxied by the number of secondary cycle
terminal exams passed); and (c) apply the resulting "quality premium" on secondary education earnings
to all graduates (including the new graduates produced by the decreased drop-outs). Finally, on the cost
side, the analysis attempts to estimate the capital, recurrent and opportunity costs of the project.

The analysis produces a Net Present Value of US$17.2 million and an Economic Rate of Return of 3096,
which indicate that the project is viable in economic terms. The results were checked for robustness to
alternative values of the critical variables.

2. Financial(seeAnnex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= 9% (see Annex 4)


FiscalImpact:
The main objective of the fiscal analysis is to provide a brief public expenditure review of the education
sector and assess whether the financial burden of the project is manageable. The expenditure review
makes it possible to detect the priority given to education in the country through the analysis of the latest
education budget estimations and to detect any efficiency issue through a brief analysis of expenditure
composition, pupil-teacher ratios and unit costs. On the basis of the macroeconomic situation of the
country and the latest education budget estimates, future education budgets are then projected and the
impact of the project's capital and recurrent costs on these budgets assessed. This exercise was carried
out for Grenada (see Annex 5), showing generally acceptable financial burdens, all the more if we take
into account the small size of this economy and of its overall education budget. On average, during the
implementation period, total project costs amount to 10% of the total education budget, falling to 0.7% in
the operational period. Finally, the efficiency analysis helped to determine some of the baseline and
target indicators of the project.

3. Technical:
The project is addressing two major issues: (a) a knowledge gap between the subject matter being taught
and the knowledge and slulls required for the countries to be competitive and to diversify, especially in
terms of the low literacy and numeracy skills in Grenada; and (b) a disconnect between the school culture
and youth culture, where school is not attractive to youth and does not effectively address their problems.
The school environment is not conducive to change due to traditional teaching and a rigidcurriculum and
examinations structure. The project proposes investments that will attempt to change the school culture.
The project design will address this in different ways:

0   Teachers will receive training in early detection o f learning difficulties and in ways of helping
                                                                                                i l l cTear
    will also receive training in more student-centred approaches to shift away from traditional frontal
    teaching modes.



                                                     - 24 -

0   Through this project, the number of teachers with certificates will increase from 30% to 85%.
0   School-based improvement projects will stimulate school community participation.
0   Extra-curricular activities will be designed and implemented by and for the youth, giving them a
    voice in an otherwise hierarchical system.
0   Regional curriculum reform and the evaluation of examinations and secondary education certification
    will be addressed by CXC and OERU in conjunction with the program, as Grenada and the other
    OECS countries explore ways to apply the new common core curriculum intheir schools.
0   Networking will foster communication between teachers, schools, district offices and the ministry
    and between islands to increase collaboration, knowledge sharingand quality o f supervision.

4. Institutional:
The P M U has shown reasonable capacity to manage the BERP. The issue is not whether the P M U i s
capable o f implementing a new project but whether the MOE will be able to promote qualitative change
within the culture of the MOE and at the school level. A core group of some ten people in the M O E has
been exposed to international experiences. Substantial technical assistance will be provided, as well as
training overseas and locally through distance learning programs and by returning fellows, to bridge the
knowledge gap and provide training to a wider audience. The other institutional change regards a shift in
the MOE from a top-down command center to a policy-focused facilitator. Education officers will
receive training in school supervision and will assist schools in taking more responsibility for
self-evaluation of their performance, especially as the EMIS makes statistical data more readily available.
Focused training for teachers, and parent and student involvement in school projects should give schools
more accountability for the learning process.


4.1 Executingagencies:
The MOE i s ultimately responsible for the implementation of the project and has established the policy
guidelines for the long-term sector strategy. The MOE units responsible for components of the BERP in
Grenada have demonstrated satisfactory implementation capacity and commitment to the delivery of the
program. The BERP project strengthened the institutional capacity of the M O E and has improved the
sector's strategic planning and analytical skills through the creation of the Testing and Evaluation Unit.


4.2 Project management:
A permanent Project Management Unit (PMU) was established within the MOE institutional framework
under the BERP. The PMU is fully integrated into the M O E and has gained considerable experience
duringimplementation of the recently closed Bank-financed project. Their trained core staff will assume
responsibility for the proposed project. The experience has taught them valuable lessons about staff
complementation,      functions  and organizational structure for effective and efficient project
implementation.


4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out of the proposed organization and staffing of the
PMU. The assessment found it to be satisfactory. The analysis also included the assessment of
administrative, political and financial aspects of the new project and took into account the level of
transparency and predictability of the procurement process. The P M U will manage project procurement
and funds, and coordinate project activities among the other MOEDivisions involved in the Project. The
f    w      r      m                                                                         c2 i p a W J 4 6
agency to administer procurement:



                                                     - 25 -

    By negotiations: Submission to the Bank o f (i)acceptable standard documents for request of
    quotations for the procurement of works under shopping modality and NCB: (ii)a detailed
    procurement plan for the first year of project implementation and (iii)the draft Project Operational
    Manual. (complied with on 20 May 2003)

    By Loan effectiveness: Establishment of a procurement filing system in accordance with Bank
    requirements.
The Bank will provide to the PMU procurement training, including a seminar on procurement to cover
consulting services, shopping and NCB and a one-day seminar at advanced level for managers.


4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
On the basis of the Grenada Financial Management Risk Assessment (FMRA), the Bank's financial
management team found that the proposed PMU for the OECS Education Development Project in
Grenada has an adequate financial management structure, keeps adequate automated accounting records
and has internal controls in place, and would therefore satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. Key actions were agreed upon, to be included in the legal agreement to be
prepared and signed with the Borrower. They are the following: (1) the P M U will open the Project
Account in USD in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank: (2) loan funds will be disbursed to
the Special Account on the basis of SOEs; (3) each quarter, the P M U will prepare Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) to be submitted to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter (FMRs will include a
narrative outlining the major project achievements for the quarter, the project's sources and uses of
funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a physical progress report, and a
procurement report): and (4) annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORS)both acceptable to the Bank.


5. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will not include the construction any new schools. A school mapping exercise has indicated
the schools that require minor expansion or upgrading. All rehabilitation of schools will take place on
existing school grounds. Therefore, no EL4 is necessary and there are no resettlement issues.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NIA


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                   Date of receipt of final draft:

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NIA




                                                   -26-

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The L A C Environmental Guidelines for Education Projects will be used for monitoring and will be
distributedto potential contractors duringthe biddingprocess. They are included inthe project files for
Phase Iof this APL and were agreed upon as the model for the incomingcountries.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment was carried out in Dominica, St. Kittsand Nevis and St. Lucia for the preparation of
the first phase of the APL. Similar social issues for the OECS region were identified in the Bank's study
on "Youth Development in the Caribbean" for the CGCED (June 2002). Lessons were drawn from these
studies and incorporated in the preparation of this project. There are three main issues in Grenada that
affect all students but impact especially on low income students. First, many students have poor literacy
and numeracy skills, and teachers have not been trained to teach these specific skills, nor to detect
learning difficulties. When detected, teachers do not know how to address them. Training will be offered
in these aspects, and special literacy and numeracy activities will be introduced at the primary and
secondary level. Second, the curriculum i s irrelevant to students, and teachers do not know how to
motivate or support them. Curriculum reform is envisaged, and guidance counselors and peer counselors
will be trained and will work in each school to offer emotional and logistical support to students and to
provide schools with a better understanding of students' needs and desires. Third, schools are very
hierarchical, and students are not active in school life. School improvement projects and student-led
activities will tie subject matter to student interests and involve students more in the school community.
The school councils will be responsible for overseeing the student-led activities.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Wide consultation took place during the preparation of the SPEED. Community meetings and meetings
with specific groups (e.g. teachers, students, principals, parents) were also held during project
preparation to discuss specific topics. In addition, working groups were established for each component,
including a wide range of interested stakeholders in each group (e.g. teacher union representatives, NGO
members working on similar social issues, school teachers and principals, education officers, and
officials from the MOE, the MOF and the Ministry of Culture). This has provided the MOE with a clear
vision of the problems and stakeholders' expectations. Technical assistance under the PHRD grant has
also sought stakeholder participation when looking at poverty reduction, teacher training and EMIS
issues.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
The M O E has developed a preliminary communications strategy that has identified key stakeholders,
including NGOs, teacher unions, business sector groups, school principals, teachers and students,
parent-teacher associations, mass media representatives, funding agencies and Government institutions.
The strategy includes regularly scheduled meetings and workshops with these stakeholders over the life
of the project to ensure ongoing consultation, information sharing and participation in the
implementation of their long-term sector strategy.




                                                      - 27 -

6.4 What institutionalarrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As mentioned above, teachers will receive training in early detection of learningdifficulties and ways of
working with these students, as well as in improved methods for student-centred teaching of all subject
matter. Peer counseling will be introduced, and students will receive appropriate training. Some 12
students per school will be selected for this program. Current guidance counselors will receive advanced
training, and 25 teachers will be selected to receive initial training in this area, thus providing at least one
counselor per school. Finally, the project will include training for the development and implementation
of School Improvement Projects.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Minimum Competency Tests will show improved literacy and numeracy skills in Form III,and
passes on the CXC in Englishand Math can be tracked by school. A review of district education officers'
reports will reveal the effectiveness of guidance and peer counseling and, school visits will assist in
evaluating the level of school community participation in the development and implementation of
school-centred and student-led activities. Finally, the ratio between the proportion of trained teachers in
the poorest and richest 20% schools may be tracked, since the poorer performing students come from
schools with less qualified teachers.


7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Although there will be no new construction, and therefore no EM is required, nevertheless,
environmental standards have been agreed upon to ensure that there will be no negative impacts on the
environment as a result of rehabilitation of schools or creation or use of science laboratories. The LAC
Environmental Guidelines for Education Projects will be utilized for civil works bidding and activities
and will be included in the Project Operational Manual.




                                                   - 28 -

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
A fiscal impact analysis of the project was undertaken showing a generally acceptable financial burden.
On the basis of a realistic growth rate and education budget projections, which take into account the
current macroeconomic situation of the country, it was determined that total Project costs will stay within
a range o f 9-11% (depending on the disbursement schedule) of the total education budget during the
implementation period. Similarly, it was determined that the incremental recurrent costs will not exceed
3.2% of the future projected recurrent education budget. Finally, it is also expected that the Project will
bring more efficiency into the education sector through a slight increase in the pupil-teacher ratio and in
the share of non-salary recurrent education expenditure. This should help make the education sector more
financially sustainable.

The strong political support from the GOG and the extensive stakeholder consultations that have gone
into the Project's design should also ensure its sustainability. The GOG, including M O E and M O F
high-level officials, have demonstrated their support to the education sector over time. Active stakeholder
involvement in many of the components and use of the communications strategy should ensure
implementation of this Project and of the SPEED over a longer period of time. Improved school
supervision, more extended use of education statistics and management training for MOE staff and
school principals will provide better governance and management of the sector and will help sustain the
Project's achievements. The GOG has committed to seeking ways to sustain the textbook scheme which
will require long-term recurrent investment.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                                                 Risk Rating                Risk MitigationMeasure           ~~




                                                      M          The project encourages a regional approach to
curriculum reform is a long-term                                 these issues to gain support from other donors
proposition; quality improvements based                          and consensus on content and timing. Regional
on curriculum changes and teaching                               collaboration and political will to make the
methods tied to curriculum reform may                            changes would reduce the risk.
take longer than the duration of the



                                                      M          The MOE is making some connections between
and youth in school with have little                             the school and other social services (guidance
control over external factors.                                   counselors at schools and mentorship
                                                                 programs), and the project will involve the
                                                                 wider school community.

Coordination between MOE and OERU                     M          The OERUhas changed its staff and focus,
i s insufficient to ensure compatibility                         realizing that its regional efforts were slowing
with regional objectives, in particular on                       down individual country initiatives. Inturn, the
curriculum reform and teacher training                           OECS countries have committed to working
                                                                 together with the OERU on these key issues.
                                                                 The Bank is working in collaboration with the
                                                                 OERU to ensure regional cohesiveness.

Potential problems in maintaining new                 M          A maintenance plan will be developed and


                                                    - 29 -

 and rehabilitated school infrastmcture                          implemented. Maintenance seminars with
 and equipment.                                                  principals, teachers and students should involve
                                                                 the main beneficiaries in caring for new and
                                                                 upgraded facilities. The MOE should also
                                                                 consider seeking private sector support to
                                                                 provide a monetary incentive to best kept
                                                                 schools.

 Lack of sustained continuity of PMU                 S           The project will offer financialincentives to
 staffing and capacity to manage a project                       retain staff and to integrate P M U staff more
 of this magnitude and ensure quality                            with MOE units to distribute the labor more
delivery of project activities.                                  efficiently. Technical assistance will also be
                                                                 provided through DFID.

Overall Risk Rating                                 M



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None have been identified.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following conditions will be required for effectiveness:

0    Fully staffed Project Management Unit (PMU), according to the specifications satisfactory to the
     Bank (see Annex 6for staffing requirements).
0    Final issuance of the Project Operational Manual.
0    Operational Manual for the School Improvement projects and Co-curricular Activities.
0    Project Account opened ina commercial Bank satisfactory to the Bank, and initial amount deposited.
0    Appointment and contracting of an independent auditor.
0    Establishmentof a procurement filing system in accordance with Bank requirements.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]


0    Government shall maintain the PMU adequatedly staffed at all times duringproject implementation
     and the Bank should have prior notice of any proposed changes in the staffing of the PMU.
0    Government shall carry out financial reporting, accounting and auditing as provided in section C.4.


H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
         start of project implementation.
- 1.b) Not applicable.

    2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of



                                                  - 30 -

         project implementation.
  - 3.TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
__ quality.
-1    4. The following items are lackingand are discussedunder loanconditions (SectionG):




  1.--Compliance with Bank Policies
__I. This project complieswith all applicableBank policies.
-2.The
-
             following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies
         with all other applicable Bank policies.




e
# Cynthia Hobbs
  Team Leader                             Sector Director




                                                    -31 -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                          GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program

                                                                                                CriticalAssumptions
                                                                sector1country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)

                                                                jocial and Economic Reviews Political will is sustainedand
or long term growth by        entering the labor force with                                 stakeholders are committedto
                                                                vIanpower and Labour Force  the goals of the education plan
killed labor force            qualifications and basic skills   jurveys
                              to undergo job training

                              Increasein the percentageof       'opulation Census
                              persons to enter institutions of
                              higher education (a)



                                                                'rogram reports:            (from Purpose to Goal)

 e Increasingequitable        Transition rate to secondary      innual reports of MOEs      The countries involved agree
    access to secondary       educationincreases                                            to support the regional goals,
    education                 Net enrollmentrate in secondary                               and donors work together.

                              educationincreases

 e Improvingthe quality of    Grosscompletion rate inForm innual reports of MOEs
    the teaching and learning V increases
    process, with moredirect
    interventions and         Proportion of students passing
    provisionof resourcesat   at least 5 CXC, including
    the school level, a focus Math and English, increases
    on student-centred
    learning and various
    mechanismsto provide
    student support



 e Strengthening              Proportion of non-salary          hnual reports of MOEs
    management of the sector recurrent expenditure out of
    and govemance of          total recurrent expenditure
    schools. InGrenada,       increases
    special emphasis will be
    placedon improving
    students'literacy and     Pupil-teacher ratio increases
    numeracy skills.


'roject Development           Outcome I Impact                  'roject reports:             (from Objective to Purpose)
Ibjective:                    Indicators:

ncrease access to secondary   Transition rate to secondary      ainistry of Education annual Post-project recurrent
ducation                      education increased:              ;tatistical reports          budgetary provisions are
                                       [in proportion to Gradc                               adequate, and financial



                                                           - 32 -

                           6 students]from 80% in                                          ianagement and efiiciency
                           2001102 to 93% by 2006107                                       ieasureswill improve the
                                    [in proportion to                                      eneration of necessary
                           studentssitting the Common                                      sources
                           EntranceExam] from 55% in
                           2001102 to 75% by 2006107
                           B        [based on students
                           sitting the CEE in the 3
                           underservedparishesof St.
                           Andrew, St. Davidand St.
                           George] from 5 1% in2002 to
                           59% in200617

                           Net enrollment rate in
                           secondary education increased
                          from 70% in 2001102 to 85%
                           by 2006107


mprove the quality of      Gross completion rate for       dinistry of Education annual
econdary education         Form V increased from 82%       #tatisticalreports
                           to in 2001102 to 105%by
                           2006107
                                                           3XC examination results
                           Proportion of studentspassing
                          at least 5 subjects at CXC
                           exams increasedfrom 13% in
                           2000 to 25% by
                           2006107 (b)

mprove management of       Proportion of non-salary        dinistry of Finance and MOE
ducation in the MOE and in recurrent expenditure out of    tnnual statistical reports
he schools                 total recurrent expenditure
                           increasedfrom 13% in2001 to
                           15% by 2006107
                                                           vlinistry of Education annual
                           Pupil-teacher ratio in          itatistical reports
                           secondaryincreasedfrom 23
                           in 2001 to 24 by 2006107




Iutput from each           Output Indicators:              Jrojectreports:                (from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
LCCESS

'hree secondaryschools     520 new secondary places        'roject reports; school visits Rehabilitated school
xpanded                    xeated by 2007                                                 infrastructure and equipment
                                                                                          will be adequately maintained.
                           Fumiture and equipment
                           provided




                                                      - 33 -

2UALITY
3evelopmentof
Tiirriculumfor Forms I to
7Z
3unicula improved for Forms Core curriculum policy              'roject reports             4OE will work in cooperation
-DI, with emphasis on literac} adopted and subject area                                     iith OERUto ensure
indnumeracy, and               policies developed by 2004                                   ompatibility with regional
iccompanying instructional                                                                  Nbjectives
pides and textbooks provided Revised curriculum printed
                               and disseminatedto all
                               relevant users by 2004

                               Workshops held to train all
                               principals, teachers and
                               supervisors inthe
                               implementation of the new
                               curriculum from 2005-2007

                               Four teachers trained in
                               two-years programs in creative
                               and performing arts

                               Activities included in Literacy
                               and Numeracy programs
                               implemented by 2007

,earning spaces upgraded or    Seven schools upgraded and       'roject reports and school  Jew laboratories and learning
stablished, includinglearning equipped by 2007                  (isits                      esource centers and
esource centers, science labs                                                               :quipment will be adequately
.ndtechnical workshops, and    Learning resource centers                                    naintained
raining for use o f equipment. established in four secondary
                               schools by 2006

                               Science labs upgraded in 11
                               secondary schools and user
                               manuals distributed by 2006

Ypgradingof Teacher Skills
:eachers trained in priority   Assessment on the training
Keas, namely on the skills     needs of secondary education
equired to apply the new       teachers camed out by 2003
:umculum
                               About 250teachers locally
                               trained to certificate level

                               Some 25 technical teachers
                               trained to certificate level

                               Forty technical teachers
                               distance trained to degree
                               level

                              Two special educators and twc
                               remedial teachers trained



                                                           - 34 -

                              overseasto degree level

                              Six teacher educatorstrained
                              at postgraduatelevel

                              Provision of materials and
                              equipment to TAMCC by
                              2007

Student assessment system     MCT testingprogram
Quality of testing in lower   strengthened, including social
secondary improved            studiesand science

                              New software to assist in
                              studentassessment provided
                              and staff trainedinits use

                             Teacherstrained in the use of
                              continuous assessment

                              Handbook on continuous
                              assessment developed and
                              printed

                             Asst. Testing & Measurement
                              Officer trained to degree level

Ea-,?detection of learning    Selectedteachers, principals
problems improved            and educationofficers trained
                              inearly detectionof learning
                             problems

                             Workshops held on early
                             detection of leaming
                             difficulties for Math and
                             Language teachers

Student Support Services     Textbooks provided for 3,000
Support services to secondary needy students per year               301%     to reachout to students
school studentsexpanded                                             M i l llook beyond the intemal
                             Mechanism developed to                 'ocus of the project on schools
                             guaranteesustainability of the         md youth in school and may
                              textbook program                      lave some influence over
                                                                    :xtemal factors.
                             Five teachers trained at degree
                             level and four at post graduate
                             level in school social work or
                             guidance counseling by 2006.
                              15 counselorstrained at local
                             level by returning fellows by
                             2007.

                             Peer counseling program
                             developed and 190 students



                                                          - 35 -

                           trained as peer counselors

Zo-curricular activities   Co-curricular activities
financed in all secondary  designed and led by students                                    :tudents will be offered and
;chools                    inthe 19 schools                                               iillassumeamoreactiverole
                                                                                          i  schools

SOVERNANCEand
MANAGEMENT

khool Supervision
lchool Supervision         3stablishment of seven District
trengthened                 Zducation Offices (DEOs) in
                           :chools, including provision of
                           :quipment

                           ;even EOstrained in school
                            upervision techniques and
                           eacher performance evaluation

                            !3 principals and senior
                            idministrators, and
                            4 curriculum and ECD
                           ,pecialiststrained in school
                           nanagement skills, including
                           he preparation o f School
                           Ievelopment Plans (SDP)

                           ?rainingfor teachers and
                           hectors provided in design of
                           roposals and implementation
                           IfSIPS

                            9 school improvement project
                           lesigned and implemented per
                           rear

iizicational Management
             System (EMIS)
 MISimprovement and        EMIS designed and                'roject reports. School visits
expansion                   Iperationalized by 2005

                           ippropriate software acquired
                           .ndin use by 2005

                           ?xistinghardware in the
                            ducation system upgraded

                           'ersonnel trained in the use o f
                           he EMIS



 nd Participation
                           iction Plan defined by 1004



                                                       - 36 -

-
information on the Education       ind fully implementational by
Reform processestablished          !007


 Project ComponentsI               Inputs: (budget for each        'roject reports:                from Components to
 Sub-components:                   component)                                                      Iutputs)

 1. Equitable Access to            US$l.17million
Secondary Education

2. Improving Quality of            LJSs7.78 million
Teaching and Learning

3. ImprovingGovernance and USs1.57 million
Management

4. Project Management              LJS$0.74million                                                 'MU staffing andcapacity is
                                                                                                   .dequateto manage a project
                                                                                                   ifthismagnitudeand ensure
                                                                                                   iuality delivery of project
                                                                                                   ctivities




    (a) Ail target indicators will be revised when the latest population information from the 2001 population census
     becomes available.
     (b) At least 5 CXC including English and Math




                                                              - 37 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                      GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program

Grenada engaged recently in the preparation of a long-range education sector plan (SPEED, 2002). The
process was highly participatory, including meetings across the island with key stakeholders. In its plan,
the Government indicated a strong commitment to education. Six areas of focus have been identified in
SPEED: (i)access to education for the whole population; (ii)improved equity of education and student
achievement; (iii)increased relevance of knowledge and work-related skills of the country's human
resources; (iv) strengthened relationships with education partners; (v) improved efficiency of the MOE
and school management; and (vi) consistent government financing and efficient use of resources.

Grenada's continuous commitment over the past 30 years has led to almost universal coverage in primary
education. The Government has agreed to maintain significant and consistent public investment in
education, as indicated by the levels of education expenditure as a percentage of GDP. The proposed
project is a follow-up to the recently closed Basic Education Reform Project (BERP), which was partially
financed by the World Bank, and builds on the BERP achievements. During the project implementation
years, the country's gross enrollment rates increased in secondary and transition rates improved. Though
stakeholders would readily admit that the sector has moved forward and significant achievements were
made in MOE management and supervision, there was some resentment from schools, since the bulk o f
the last project focused on the central level administration and little was done to make real changes in the
teaching and learning process. For this reason, a concerted effort has been made in the proposed project
to focus on improved quality of teaching, learning and supervision at the school level.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$1.17 million
                      -
Increasing Equitable Access
One factor preventing achievement of universal secondary school enrollment is the lack of available
places. The BERP supported the construction of a new secondary school, adding 315 new spaces, and
rehabilitated ten primary and secondary schools. Nevertheless, there are still bottlenecks in some areas of
the country due to migration, and an analysis of population and enrollment shows that secondary school
capacity i s overextended. On the other hand, statistical data show a declining trend in school-age
population in the country, which would lead to substantial increases in the transition and enrollment rates
even without interventions. Assuming a conservative decline of 3% per year in the 11 year old
population, the transition rate from primary to secondary, currently equal to 55%, would naturally reach
80% by 2007/08 and 100%by 2010. Therefore, the project will support minor expansion in key schools
as identified by a recent school mapping exercise.
1.1Expansion and rehabilitation ofSecondaryschools.
This component aims to further expand access to secondary education targeting geographical areas, to
assist the GOG in its efforts to achieve universal enrollment in secondary education. The component will
provide additional coverage in the parishes of St. George, St. Andrew and St. David, where there are high
migration flows from other parts of the country or the secondary school-age population is underserved
due to the high number of feeder primary schools funneling into a limited number of secondary schools
in the area. During project preparation, a school mapping exercise was carried out to better understand
how to meet the needs of Grenada's school population. This information, together with the Household
Survey data showing population trends, assisted the GOG in determining which schools to target.




                                                    - 38 -

A total of 520 new places will be added in secondary education by 2008 in the following schools: (i)in
Grenada Boys Secondary School, adding 200 additional spaces; (ii)in Westerhall Secondary, adding 200
new places; and (iii)in Greenville Secondary, adding 120 new places. Classroom designs will be based
on the recommendations of the "Design of Learning Spaces" consultancy (May 2003) to facilitate
interactive, student-centered learning.

This subcomponent will finance: (i)civil works to expand and improve the existing school facilities and
(ii)acquisitionoffumitureandequipment.

Project Component 2 US$7.79 million
                      -
Improvingthe Qualityof TeachingandLearning

2.1 Developmentof Curriculum for Forms Ito I11
The objective o f this sub-component will be to refocus the curriculum for the lower secondary level
(Forms Ito   m>, emphasizing   the improvement of students' literacy and numeracy skills. The project will
provide training and support for the implementation of the revised curriculum. This component will be
developed in close collaboration with the other OECS project countries, adhering to the curriculum
reform proposals of the OERU. The curriculum reform process will be based on a model policy that has
been developed by the OERU with input from the OECS MOEs. This curriculum policy determines the
number and type of courses to be offered in Forms Ito III.   A consultancy will support the translation of
the OERU policy to the reality of Grenada, and a DFID-supported consultancy will recommend the
approach to follow to achieve the objectives of strengthening literacy and numeracy within this core
curriculum policy. Subiect area policies will be developed by the MOE during the first year of project
implementation in line with the general core curriculumpolicy.

The main activities for this sub-component are:

   0    Development of all curriculumpolicies;

   0    Training workshops for all principals, teachers and supervisors in the implementation of the new
        curriculum;

   0    Overseas or distance training for four (4) teachers in two-year programs in creative and
        performingarts;

   0    Literacy Enhancement and Achievement Programme (LEAP): Among the activities financed
        under this programme, there will be: (i)a school survey to determine literacy needs; (ii)the
        creation of literacy committees in the schools to lead the efforts on literacy development; (iii)
                                                                                                        the
        provision of educational software and books to support increasing reading; (iv) the celebration of
        a yearly National Literacy Festival which will display student writing; and (v) a compulsory
        course on strategic reading for teachers and students, training on the development and use of
        literacy portfolios for instructional purposes and on technology and the technology program;

   0    Program to enhance numeracy: This programme will include: (i)a survey to document the most
        common numeracy problems in the upper primary grades; (ii)the training of some 360 teachers
         in the diagnosis of student leaming difficulties in number skills and concepts; (iii)the
        development, selection and distribution of learning materials to be used to reinforce numeracy
        skills in teachers and students; (iv) organization of a fair on Mathematics for upper primary and



                                                    -39-

        lower secondary where students' work can be displayed; and (v) development of video material
        to be used by teachers and to have available in the LearningResource Centers.

        "EXSEL" Summer school: This program has been conceived as a summer camp pilot experience
        to enhance literacy and numeracy, replicating the design o f similar successful learning camps in
        the country. It will be piloted in the parish of St. Andrew during the first year of project
        implementation and will reach five hundred students in Forms Ito ID. Students who are
        under-achieving in school will be identified and encouraged and supported to attend. The courses
        will be offered during the first two weeks of summer vacation. An evaluation of the pilot
        experience will be carried out after the first year to determine whether to launch the program in
        the other six Districts.

        Creation of Learning Resource Centers (LCRs) in four secondary schools. These Learning
        Resource Centres will be established as a strategy to enhance and enrich the school's curriculum,
        to stimulate interest in literacy and research, to encourage and develop metacognitive skills for
        independent and lifelong learning and to shift towards more student-centered teaching and
        learning. The centers will have a combination of essential library resources and information
        technology. The project will support the construction and equipping of these spaces or upgrading
        of existing school libraries to LCRs. Training will be provided for the LCR managers and school
        teachers on use of new materials and equipment and ways of incorporating more research-based
        activities into their teaching;

        Upmading of the science laboratories in 11 secondary schools, based on international standards.
        This sub-component seeks to develop in secondary school graduates a greater interest in science
        beyond
        the classroom, including industry and research, through improved methodology and greater
        participation
        of the learner. The Science Laboratories will be designed accordingly to reflect the needs of the
        new curriculum and the proposals and recommendations o f the design of leamining consultancy.
        Training will be provided for laboratory technicians in secondary schools. Training in areas such
        as inventory management and preventative maintenance o f laboratory equipment and
        infrastructure will assist in containing costs and ensuring the prolonged use of the laboratory
        resource.

        Printingof the new curricula and of the manual for science labs for dissemination to all relevant
        users.
This sub-component will finance the following: (i)local and overseas training; (ii)software, books,
teacher manuals, and learning and video materials; (iii)literacy festival and numeracy fair expenses; (iv)
technical assistance for evaluation of the programs; (v) rehabilitation of schools to create learning
resource centers and upgrade science laboratories and (vi) equipment of these facilities.


2.2 Upgradingof Teacher Skills
This subcomponent will improve the quality of teaching at the secondary level. At present. only 30% o f
teachers are trained at the certificate level. The goal is to raise this percentage to 85%, and decrease the
teacher attrition rate. The MOE will implement a range of training programs for teachers, based on the
strategy designed by the consultants during project preparation. These will include:




                                                    -40-

    0    Local training for 250 classroom teachers and 28 technical teachers to the certificate level;

    0    Distance training for 40 technical teachers to the degree level;

    0    Overseas training for four Special Educators to the degree level, including specialists to work
         with visually and auditory-impaired students, and specialists in remedial teaching;

    0    Overseas postgraduate training for ten teacher educators, including four technical teachers.

It will also increase the capacity of the T.A. Marryshow Community College (TAMCC) to provide
teacher training by creating a model classroom and supporting the upgrading of its ICT facilities and
equipment, including library materials and instruments required for teacher training.

The focus of the teacher training activities will be on the skills required to implement the new
curriculum. Training will be offered initially by trained professionals in the areas of language arts, social
studies, math and education psychology. Additional training will be offered in other areas as the teacher
educators finalize their overseas training. A clear plan will be established to ensure that fellows provide
training to their colleagues upon their return.
This sub-component will finance: (i) and overseas training; (ii)rehabilitation of TAMCC to provide
                                      local
for modelclassroom and ICT facilities; and (iii) computers, equipment and materials.
2.3 Student Assessment System
The quality of assessment in the lower forms of secondary schools will be improved and a system of
programs will be introduced to support students with learning difficulties. Although in recent years
Grenada has undertaken some major reforms in testing and evaluation (such as the introduction of the
Minimum Competency Test and the use of the Common Entrance Exam (CEE) and the Caribbean
Examination Council exam (CXC) as diagnostic tools to monitor learning and to improve quality),
further reforms are needed to strengthen the assessment, to use the evaluations as quality assessment
mechanisms and to provide feedback to students, teachers and parents.
The M O E aims to expand continuous assessment of student achievements, an evaluation method
introduced in 2000 but for which teachers never received appropriate training. The MOE supports
development of a training program through which at least one teacher per school will be trained in
continuous assessment techniques, and a teachers' manual on the use of these techniques will be
distributed to schools. This assessment will be competency-based and harmonized among schools. These
efforts will coincide with the harmonization of the curriculum in Mathematics, Science, Social Studies
and Language Arts, to develop a list of competencies in each subject area.
About 10 percent of Grenadian students have learning difficulties, yet teachers have not been trained to
identify them or understand the causes, nor how better to support the students. It i s usually difficult for
teachers to assist these students in their normal classroom setting. The MOE will invest in strategic
interventions to support these students by focusing on the classroom environment, materials, assignment
and management techniques. Training of teachers in early detection of learning difficulties i s considered
a key element of this strategy.

This sub-component will finance: (i)new software to strengthen the processing and analysis o f test
scores and student assessment; (ii)training of staff in the use of this software; (iii)initial training to
selected teachers, principals and Education Officers on early detection of learning difficulties and
Continuous Assessment skills; (iv) workshops on Math and Language skills for selected teachers,
principals and education officers and (v) development and printing of handbooks for teachers on
Continuous Assessment.


                                                    -41 -

2.4 Improvinp Student Support Services
The MOE seeks to meet the emotional, social, physical and spiritual needs of the student population by
providing services to assist students to develop their full potential. However, inequities still exist and
those who most need assistance are not always targeted. The MOE has attempted to improve existing
programs as well as introduce new mechanisms to ensure students' ability and willingness to successfully
participate in the educational process. This component supports several such programs.
2.4.a. Textbook rental scheme: The MOE administers a Needy Students' Assistance Programme (NSAP)
for secondary school students, providing books or uniforms to needy students awarded a secondary
school place, based on the results of the Common Entrance Exam (CEE) and availability of spaces.
Traditionally, these students have been selected by the principal or the teachers. Due to difficulties
arisingfrom the selection process, the MOE has decided to define eligibility criteria to identify and better
target students with unmet needs. The MOE has initiated this process during the preparation period with
support from the PHRD grant. In addition to the NSAP assistance, a textbook program under the auspices
of the Prime Minister's Ministry is currently providing textbooks to 2,762 (of 9,891 total) students in
Forms Ito V. However, continued funding i s not guaranteed for this program, and the MOE has decided
to assume responsibility for it and to establish a mechanism for its sustainability, to be developed during
the first year of the project.

2.4.b. Training for Guidance Counselors: Until November 2002, the MOE's Guidance and Counseling
unit was staffed with two officers who were responsible for all the guidance and counseling services for
the country's schools. Existing problems in schools, such as behavioral problems, violence, drugs, family
abuse, anti-social behavior and poor communication skills, point to the need for more trained
professionals. Under a new MOE initiative, nine teachers with skills and experience in this area were
selected in November 2002 and assigned by district as guidance and counseling assistants to perform
these duties in schools. Only four o f them have degrees in this area. Training i s required to upgrade their
skills and knowledge, to enable them to provide more effective and efficient services. Even with the
addition of these professionals, the ratio of guidance counselors to secondary students is 1:900. As
defined in SPEED, the aim is to designate a trained counselor per school by 2006. To this end, the MOE
will provide training to five teachers at the degree level and three (3) teachers at the post-graduate level.
The five counseling assistants who do not yet have specialized degrees will receive the degree-level
training, and they will be expected to train up to 20 additional teachers upon their return.

2.4.c. Peer counseling and mentorship program. Under the premise that students may feel more
comfortable talking with peers, twelve students from each school will be selected for peer counseling
training. Mentors from the community may also be invited to work on a volunteer basis with students.
These two strategies will give students more options to seek advice and help with problems.
2.4.d. Student-led Co-curricular Activities. Student-led co-curricular activities will be introduced to
stimulate general interest and motivation in students. Key areas of focus may include (a) sports, (b)
entrepreneurship, and (c) school clubs and groups, among others. Participation of students deemed
"vulnerable and at risk" should be encouraged. The MOE will transfer funds directly to Student Councils
to ensure student leadership and the opportunity for students' creative expression of their interests.
Proposals will also be presented annually for these activities.
This sub-component will finance: (i)provision of xxx core textbooks to needy students; (ii)guidance and
counseling degree-level training for 5 teachers, and overseas post-graduate training in this area for three
professionals; (iii)training of 190 students as peer counselors and establishment of the mentorship
program and (iv) support for student-led co-curricular activities (US$2,000 per school per year).



                                                    - 42 -

Project Component 3 US$1.57 million
                      -
StrengtheningGovernance and Management
3.1Strengthening school supervisionand management
Grenada's supervision system lacks coordination and collaboration between units with supervision
responsibilities; insufficient support to schools due to the geographic dispersion of assigned schools to
Education Officers; and conflicting information given by different M O E officials visiting the same
school. To address these weaknesses, and in line with SPEED, the MOE has initiated a reform of the
supervision system by creating: (i)Education Districts defined geographically, to achieve a focused
supervision by Education Officers and Early Childhood Supervisors; and (ii)Supervision Teams for each
education district. Each team comprises an education officer, an early childhood supervisor, technical
professionals from the MOE, faculty from the Teacher Education Department of TAMCC and key actors
in the education sector at the parish and district level. The supervision teams are responsible for
developing and implementing a strategic plan for district improvement, based on the needs and priorities
identified.
The project aims to support the Government's efforts to improve the level and efficiency of supervision at
the school level. Existing classrooms in seven schools - one in each district - will be refurbished to be
used as District Education Offices for each of the District Supervision Teams. These offices will
accommodate a meeting room, a counseling room, a manager's office and workspaces for the district
education officers. Training workshops in school supervision techniques and teacher performance
evaluation will be organized for the supervision teams. Training in school management also will be
conducted for 83 principals and other senior administrators at the school and ministry levels and 14
curriculum and ECD specialists.
In addition, principals will receive extended initial training on the use of School Development Plans
(SDPs) and the involvement of teachers, students, parents and the wider community in school
development planning. The SDPs, drawn up by the school community, will establish the strategic goals
of each school and provide indicators by which to measure school performance, thereby forming a key
component to the supervision process. The SDPs will also guide the development of school-based School
Improvement Projects (SIPS), which have been identified as an effective way of improving the quality of
teaching and learning, creating partnerships, fostering ownership, and stimulating innovation and
efficiency in resource utilization in education. The M O E will seek to build on this culture of
school-based projects to encourage schools to focus on projects to improve the teaching and leaming
process. An Operations Manual is being developed and will detail the selection criteria and
implementation arrangements for the coordination of support for the SIPS. Each year each school will
present one SIP, based on the School Development Plan, including activities to improve the teaching and
leaming process. Projects will be selected based on the quality of the proposals submitted and their
capacity to motivate students.
This sub-component will finance: (i)the establishment of seven District Education Offices (DEO) in
schools; (ii)computers, office equipment and resource materials for the DEOs; (iii)training activities for
the members of the school supervision teams, principals and administrators (about 104 people); (iv)
training in the preparation o f the School Development Plans and (v) financing of School Improvement
Projects (US$3,000 per school per year).
3.2 EducationalManagementInformationSystem
The MOEhas realized its inability to access and disseminate accurate information in real time, which has
impeded the formulation and implementation of appropriate and relevant education policies. The M O E
places emphasis on school management to improve the quality of education. In this context. the MOE has


                                                   - 43 -

proposed to upgrade and expand its management information system (EMIS) to provide updated sector
information to policy makers.
This subcomponent will finance: (i) and commissioning of customized EMIS software or purchase
                                      design
o f relevant off-the-shelf software, including statistical software to be used by schools; (ii)upgrading of
the system hardware and (iii)training for relevant personnel (approximately 140 people) in use of the
new software package and statistics packages.
3.3 Improvingcommunication and participation
Though some dissemination efforts have been made to spread the achievements of the ongoing education
reform process, the MOE perceives that these efforts need to be intensified to foster greater ownership of
the reform and wider participation by key stakeholders in the education sector. This sub-component will
support the dissemination of information on the educational reform process with the objective o f
enhancing stakeholders' involvement in and ownership of the process. Communication efforts will target
a wide range of stakeholders - teachers, students, parents, trade union, business sector, community and
non-governmental organizations - using print media, broadcast media and participatory activities.
Specific messages for each of the target groups will be developed and will utilize a range of activities for
reaching these target groups and getting them involvedin the project.
Competitions in art, written essays, poetry or debate will also be held annually to generate interest in the
education reform at the secondary school level and among the general public. These competitions will be
open to all secondary education students. Students will present their entries to their schools, and the
schools in turn will present them to the MOE. While individuals will compete in the art, essay and poetry
competitions, the debate competition will be held on a zonal basis with teams of 3 to 4 students per
school, and a national competition will be held with the winners of each zone. A committee of judges
will be selected by the MOE for each of the competitions. Trophies and cash prizes will be awarded to
the winners. These prizes will be granted on an exceptional basis, as an incentive for students to
participate in these extra-curricular activities, and will not be used as a reward for regular student
activities, such as class attendance. The rules, procedures for entry andjudging criteria for selection are
clearly defined in the Project Operational Manual.
This sub-component will finance: (i)printing of information materials (brochures, posters, billboards,
flier and new releases); (ii)production and recording of materials to be broadcast; (iii)participatory
workshops and debates and (iv) trophies and cash prizes to winners of the competitions.

Project Component4 US$0.73 million
                      -
ProjectManagement
A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established under the BEW and is one of the key units
of the Ministry of Education, in charge of implementing programs with international support. The PMU
will manage and coordinate the implementation of the OECS Education Development Project for
Grenada. The PMU staff consists o f (i)a Project Manager, (ii)a Financial Analyst, (iii)a Project
Accountant, (iv) a Secretary; (v) a Procurement Officer who prepares tender documents, notices,
supervision of consultants, coordination of tender, and evaluation report preparation; (vi) a School
Supplies Officer who manages the Ministry's fleet of vehicles, assesses the needs of the school in
relation to supplies, orders the relevant goods and distributes them to the beneficiary school; (vii) an
assistant to whom the School Supplies Officer delegates as need arises and (viii) a proposed Accounts
Clerk. The recurrent costs of maintaining the Unit will be met by GOG and are to be included in the
approved estimates of expenditure for the Ministry of Education, while the project will finance
equipment, materials and staff training.




                                                    - 44 -

                                 Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
                 GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program




                                                                     (us$ooo's)
                                                              Local   Foreign   Total
A. 1.0 IncreasingEquitableAccess
   1.1 Expansionand rehabilitationof secondaryschools             506      551    1,057
Subtotal 1.O IncreasingEquitableAccess                            506      551    1,057
B. 2.0 Improvingde Quality of Teaching and Learning
  2.1 Development of Curriculum for Foms Ito II                 2,540    2,804    5,344
  2.2 Upgrading of Teacher Skills                                472       105      577
  2.3 Student Assessment System                                   137       43      180
  2.4 Improving Student Support Services                          531      532    1,063
Subtotal2.0 Improvingde Quality of Teaching and Learning        3,680    3,484    7,164
C. 3.0 StrengtheningSchool Supervision
  3.1 Strengthening schools supervision                          443       264      707
  3.2 Educational Management Information System                   105      630      735
  3.3 Improving communication and participation                    43        6       49
Subtotal3.0 StrengtheningSchool Supervision                       591      900    1,491
D. 4.0 Project Management                                         513      175      688
E. Front-end fee                                                            40       40
Total BASELINECOSTS                                             5,290    5,150   10,440
  Physical Contingencies                                          107      189      296
  Price Contingencies                                             373      191      564
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                              5,771    5,530   11,300




                                                   -45-

                       (OECS) Education Development Program
                    Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary



                                                          (us$ooo's)
                                                   Local   Foreign   Total
 1. Investment Costs
   A. Civil Works                                    1,926    2,858    4,785
   E. Equipment/a                                      123    1,088    1,210
   C. Furniture                                        172      255      427
   D. Textbooks                                         91      358      449
   E. Technical Assistant
      1. Specialist Services
         Local Consultants                            932                932
         Foreignconsultants                             35      195      229
      Subtotal Specialist Services                    966       195    1,161
   F. Trainingand Workshops
      Worshops                                        251                251
      Training                                        835       184     1,020
   Subtotal Trainingand Workshops                    1,086      184    1.270
   G. School Improvement Projects                     400                400
   H. Prizes                                            8                   8
   I. OperatingCost                                    122       40       162
   J. Printingand non-printingmaterials                157       51      208
   K. Front end fee                                              40        40
Total InvestmentCosts                                5,051    5,070   10,121
II.RecurrentCosts
   A. Utility                                           48                 48
   8. Operationand Maintenance                          74                 74
   C. IncrementalStaff                                  61                 61
   D. Textbooks                                         50       75       125
   E. Office supplies                                   5         5        11
Total Recurrent Costs                                 239        80       319
Total BASELINECOSTS                                  5,290    5,150   10,440
   PhysicalContingencies                               107      189       296
   Price Contingencies                                 373      191       564
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                   5,770    5,530   11,300




                                         -46-

                            Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                      GRENADA:(OECS) Education Development Program


As the project's main focus is on quality improvements of the education system, which are being pursued
through the provision of better facilities for learning, better trained teachers and curricular reforms, the
economic analysis will concentrate on this aspect. It will attempt to quantify these benefits, as well as
estimating the total costs of the project (including capital, recurrent and opportunity costs), to produce
measures of net total gain in the country. We should note that the project design is also envisaging an
"access" component which would provide some 500 new places. However, in the context o f the current
decline in school-age population faced by the country, which would lead to substantial increases in the
transition and enrollment rates even without intervention (assuming a decline of 3% per year in the
11-year-old population up to 2006107, followed by a decline of 2% up to 2014/2015, the transition rate
from primary to secondary, currently equal to 55%, would naturally reach 80% by 2007/08 and 100% by
2012/13), the main objective of this component i s solely to help obtain full coverage in a few areas which
are experiencing high migration flows from other parts of the country (Le. help tackle "bottleneck"
situations). These benefits will not be assessed here.

Summary of Benefitsand Costs:

Benefits from higher auality

The project i s planning to undertake several quality-enhancement interventions, such as rehabilitating
fully existing secondary schools, including the upgrading of science labs and learning resource centers,
providing equipment and materials, implementing literacy and numeracy programs, introducing school
improvement projects, developing new curricula and providing teacher training. It is expected that
through its quality-enhancing measures, the project will gradually lead to: (a) decreased drop-outs from
2005/2006, which will in turn be reflected into a higher number of graduates; and (b) higher educational
achievement, as measured by exam results.

Reduced drop-outs

Table 1 shows an estimation of the total benefits associated with the reduced drop-outs, and therefore
higher numbers of graduates, under the two main assumptions that: (a) primary school-age population
decreases at a rate of 3% up to 2006/07, 2% up to 2014/15 and 1.5% afterwards; and (b) drop-outs in all
grades decrease gradually from 2005/06 to reach the target levels o f 0% in Forms 1 and 3 (where
drop-outs are currently around 1%), 1.5% in Form 3 (from a current level o f around 3%) and 2.5% in
Form4 (from a current level of around 4-5%)". Multiplyingthe stream of new graduates over the next 20
years by the present value, assessed at the time of graduation, of the incremental earnings associated
with complete secondary education (calculated from the Grenada Labour Force Survey (2001) and shown
inTable 2), and discounting this amountiLL,we obtain a total economic benefit of US$9.5 million.

Other assumptionsunderlying the calculation of the benefits:

    0   The graduation age (and age of entry to the labour market for the secondary school students) is
        taken to be 17. This assumes that students progress through the schooling system on time,
        entering Grade K at age 5 and leaving Form 5 at age 16. Low repetition in primary and secondary
        makes this assumption reasonably plausible in the case of Grenada.



                                                   -47-

    0   The working life of the secondary graduates starts at 17 and goes up to 60. It i s assumed that all
        secondary graduates will manage to be employed. It is plausible that in the context of the
        projected medium term growth rate of 3% and the relatively small amount of incremental
        secondary graduates, the labour market can absorb them all.

    0   We also assume that the size of the expansion (less than 100 new secondary graduates per year
        compared with an estimated 2,000 students graduating from secondary school each year, or the
        existing secondary school population of approximately 10,300 students) is sufficiently small so
        that we can safely assume the absence of wage compression effects due to the incremental
        graduates.

Higher educationalachievement

The planned quality enhancing interventions have been proved to have a positive significant impact on
educational achievement in various countries according to education production function analysesm. In
the context of Grenada, it was possible to test the impact of infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation
(science labs and learning centres) and teacher training on secondary school educational achievement
through an education production function analysis. Table 3 below reports the results of an education
production function relating the average passing rate in the English and Math CXC exams by secondary
school in 2002 to measures of teaching staff characteristics, state of the infrastructure and expenditure
per student, controlling for the socio-economic status of schoolsm. Unfortunately, the unavailability of
informationon CXC scores at the student level left no other option than to estimate an aggregate function
at the school level, over an admittedly small sample size. In any case, simple OLS results show that both
the state of the infrastructure and equipment and the proportion of trained teachers are significant in
explaining CXC passing rates. An increase of 1% point in the proportion of trained graduate teachers
leads to an increase of about 0.27% points in passing rates, while a decrease of 1% point in
the proportion of infrastructure and equipment in poor conditions leads to an increase of about 0.22%
points inpassing ratesili.

Taking into account that the project will lead to an increase of 66% points in the proportion of trained
teachers (through the training sub-component which i s planning to train 300 teachers out of the current
450) and assuming a decrease of 30% points inthe proportion of infrastructure and equipment in state of
deprivation through the rehabilitation of 11 science labs, the upgrading or creation of 4 learning centers
and general refurbishing of several secondary schoolsu, we get an overall increase in CXC passing rates
of about 24% points. This increase will then translate into a higher proportion of students passing one or
more CXC exams which we can relate to higher earnings using the evidence presented in Table 5 and
some specific assumptioniLi. From Table 5, we see that quality-enhancing measures bring an increase of
about 3.8% in the average monthly income associated to completed secondary education (in particular
because of the high premium associated with passing at least 5 CXC exams), or, in other words, a 3.8%
premium on the total discounted income associated with secondary education (equivalent to
approximately US$1,500). As shown in Table 6, multiplying this figure by the total number of secondary
graduates, and discounting the resulting amounts, we get the total benefits associated with these
quality-enhancing measures (US$20.7 million).




                                                  - 48 -

Main Assumptions:

Main assumptions underlying the calculation of the benefits:


    0   The impact of the quality-enhancing measures on secondary education earnings kicks in from
        2006/07 onwards, when these measures have all been implemented and the secondary students
        have been able to take advantage of them.

    0   No attempt was made to estimate the potential impact on educational achievement and earnings
        of the other quality interventions. However, the positive impact of expenditure per student, which
        can be related to higher quality of human resources, teaching materials and maintenance, points
        to a positive impact of other project's interventions, such as the provision of teaching materials
        under the curriculum and student support sub-components. Additionally, the same curriculum
        reform and the implementation of school improvement projects, not necessarily related to
        expenditure, are also likely to have a significant impact on educational achievement and, thus,
        on eamings.

Projectcosts and relating. costs to benefits

InTable 7, we report the total investment, recurrent and opportunity costs of the project and, inTable 8,
we compare the total discounted benefits with the total discounted costs to obtain a Net Present Value
and Economic Rate of Retumfor the project. The NPV i s equal to US$17.2 million and the ERRto 30%.

Main assumptions underlying the cost analysis:

    0   The normal entry age into the labour market is taken to be 15. The forgone income i s obtained
        multiplying the new Form 4 and Form 5 enrollees by the yearly wage that they would have
        earned if they were working instead of attending school.

    e   Recurrent costs were obtained under the assumption of a constant pupil-teacher ratio of 23.

Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:

A sensitivity (and, when applicable, a switching value analysis) was undertaken in relation to the
following crucial parameters:
    -the increment in eamings due to secondary education
    -the unemployment rate
    -the "quality premium" in secondary education.

These are the main resultsM:

    0    Ifthe increment inearnings due to secondary education is only 50% of the one assumedinthe
         base case, the NPV will fall to US$12.4 million (ERR: 26%).

    0    If the unemployment rate is 20% for all the project beneficiaries (higher than the projected
         12%), the NPV will fall to US$11.1 million (ERR:25%). The point where the NPV reaches 0 (or
         the IRR 10%) would be with an unemployment rate o f 57%.



                                                   -49-

0 If the "quality premium" in secondary education is only 75% of the one assumed in the base
  case, the NPV will fall to US$l2.0 million (ERR:25%). If it is 50% of the one assumed in the
  base case, the NPV will fall to US$6.8 million (ERR: 19%). The point where the NPV reaches 0
  (or the IRR 10%) would be with the quality premium reaching 17% of the one assumed in the
  base case

          Table 1: G nada-Secondar graduates benefits frc 1decreased droi outs
                      New     secondary PV of differential earnings Discounted total
                      graduates         (US$)                       benefits
                                                                    (US$)

          200312004  0                  19329                       0
          200412005  0                  19329                       0
          200512006  0                  19329                       0
          200612007  25                 19329                       492468
          200712008  32                 19329                       624984
          2008/2009  72                 19329                       1386770
          200912010  78                 19329                       1503881
          201011011  95                 19329                       1836413
          201112012  95                 19329                       1842586
          201212013   95                19329                       1837323
          201312014  95                 19329                       1832031
          2014/2015  95                 19329                       1827336
          201512016  94                 19329                       1823512
          201612017  93                 19329                       1799722
          2017l2018   87                19329                       1675367
          201812019   85                19329                       1636132
          201912020   83                19329                       1603186
          202012021   82                19329                       1578610
          2021/2022   80                19329                       1554911
          202212023  79                 19329                       1531586

         Total:
                                                                    9,561,307




                                          - 50 -

                        Table 2: Grenada-Average gross yearly wages
                            per level of education and age (in EC$)

    Age        Completeprimary Complete secondary     Difference
     17            6480             15600                9120
     18            6480              6300                -180
     19            6480              6000                -480
     20            6480             12084                5604
     21            6600              8592                1992
     22            6000             11124                5124
     23            7200             22740               15540
     24            6480             10908                4428
     25            9600             10068                468
     26            9600             10008                408
     27            9744              9168                -576
     28            9144             15000                5256
     29            9744             12252                2508
     30            9900             13200                3300
     31            8520             14856                6336
     32            8520             13008                4488
     33            9000             15156                6156
     34            7800             57000               49200
     35            9000             12996                3996
     36           12000             14904                2904
     37           12000             10044               -1956
     38           12000             16800                4800
     39           13104             13800                696
     40           12600              9600               -3000
     41           12000             18000                6000
     42           11400             15120                3720
     43           4800              11400                6600
     44           11400             19800                8400
     45           9900              18000                8100
     46           12636              9600               -3036
     47           15624              4800               -10824
     48           32400             23496               -8904
     49           7800              19200                11400
     50           15624             15024                -600
     51           7200              15000                7800
     52           7200              25104               18504
     53           7200              11160                3960
     54           7200              11160                3960
     55           7200              11160                3960
     56            8400             1I160                2160
     57            8400             24000                15600
     58           8400              17436                9036
     59           8400              36000               27600
     60           8400              17436                9036
                  9600              51600               42000

   Mean:          9694              16165                6471

Present Value:



                  Source: processed from the Grenada Labour Force Survey (2001)
                                    Notes: (a) lUS$=1,.7 1EC$




                                               -51 -

                          Table 3: Grenada-OLS estimates
                            (dependent variable: CXCPR)


 Variables            Coefficients
                       (t-ratios)

SCHDEP                  -0.485
                        (1.84)*

   PT                    1.495
                        (1.86)*

TEACHTR                 0.275
                        (1.89)*

INFRDEP                 -0.225
                       (2.64)**

 EXPS                   0.038
                       (3.84)***

   R2                    0.70




            Notes: * Significant 10%; ** Significant at 5%; *** Significant at 1%
                                at




                                         - 52 -

               Table 4: Grenada-Some summary statistics and variable description

                  Variabledescriptionand unit of measure
                                                                                               Mean         StandardDeviation
CXCPR             Average passingrate in the CXC Englishand Math exams (%)                     33.2               14.6

                  School socio-economic status (the higher the variable, the more deprived the
SCHDEP            school), measuredby the proportion of students covered by a bursary (%)      27.7                10.5

 PT               Pupil-Teacherratio                                                           23.0                3.4


TEACHTR           Proportionof trained teachers (a)                                            31.5                 18.4


INFRDEP           Proportionof school infrastructurein a state of deprivation (%)              65.8                29.I

EXPS              Educationexpenditure per student in the secondary sector (EC$)               1,472               297




              Table 5: Grenada-Average monthly wages and educational achievement

               Average monthly wage for      Population16 years andover         Population 16years andover who
               each levelof educational      who has completed secondary        has completedsecondary
               achievement                   education by CXC educational       education by CXC educational
               (ECB)                         achievement(70)                    achievementafter
                                                                                quality-enhancing measures (%)
                                                                                (EC$)
Completed
secondary with
nocxc          1102                          14                                 8

1-2 cxc        1203                          25                                 25

3-4 cxc        1200                          30                                 29

5+ cxc         1900                          31                                 38


Weighted Mean:                                                                   1458
               1404
                       Source: processed from the Grenada Labour Force Survey (2001)




                                                       - 53 -

Table 6: Grenada-Secondary graduate benefits from improved education
achievement
            Total      Secondary    Discounted    total
            secondary  education    benefits (US$)
            graduates  premium (US$)

200312004   1854       0            0
200412005   2002       0            0
200512006   2166       0            0
200612007   2052       1500         3077263
200712008   2149       1500         3223165
200812009   2174       1500         3261748
200912010   2151       1500         3227243
2010/2011   2163       1500          3243903
201112012   2154       1500          3230883
201212013   2147       1500          3220348
2013/2014   2140       1500          3210410
201412015   2134       1500          3201607
20192016    2130       1500          3194438
201612017   2102       1500          3152362
201712018   1956       1500          2933853
201812019   1910       1500          2865109
2019/2020   1872       1500          2807414
202012021   1843       1500          2764378
202112022   1815       1500          2722876
202212023   1788       1500          2682032

Total:                               20.733.538




                           - 54 -

                                      Table 7: Grenada-Costs of the project (US$)

                                   Capitalcosts    I Recurrent costs    1 Forgoneincome       Total


                   2003/2004       845600            26700                0                   872300
                   2004/2005       3627900           27300                13379               3668579
                   2005/2006       4269900           96200                112383              4478483
                   2006/2007       2205700           201300               144277              2551277
                   2007/2008                         250000               281894              531894
                   200812009                         250000               297151              547151
                   2009/2010                         250000               338154              588154
                   2010/2011                         250000               338624              588624
                   2011/2012                         250000               337703              587703
                   2012/2013                         250000               336314              586314
                   2013/2014                         250000               324421              574421
                   2014/2015                         250000               319566              569566
                   2015/2016                         250000               293600              543600
                   2016/2017                         250000               283725              533725
                   201712018                         250000               275172              525172
                   2018/2019                         250000               266915              516915
                   20I9/2020                         250000               258908              508908
                   202012021                         250000               252236             ,502236
                   202112022                         250000               243397              493397
                   202212023                         250000               241240              491240
                                                                                             ~




                   Present Value:                                                            I 13,075.438
                                                   I                     I



                             Table 8: Grenada-Costs and Benefits (US$ millions)

                                                                                    PV
                    Benefits:
               Reduceddrop-outs                                                     9.5

       Improved educational achievement                                            20.7

                      costs:
                Investment costs                                                   (9.3)

                 Recurrent costs                                                   (1.7)

                 Forgone income                                                    (2.0)
                      NPV:                                                          17.2
                      ERR:                                                          30%



iilThe drop-out values have been determined through simple linear intrapolation.
u  Usingas everywhereelse in the analysis a discount rate of 10%.
LliSee, for instance, Fuller and Clarke (1994 ), Harbison and Hanushek (1992), Wolf, Shiefelbein and Valenzuela
(1994) and Sheerens (2000) for extensive reviews of studies assessing education production functions.
lilAs much as we could. It is suspected that the adopted measure might not be a perfect measure of socio-economic
status and that the pupil-teacher ratio and expenditure per student might also proxy for some impact of the school
"'socio-economic above,
                  level.
   As mentioned           these results should be interpreted with caution due to the small sample size and the
aggregatednature of the data. The small sample size led us to check the assumption that the residuals are normally



                                                           - 55 -

distributed through ajoint skewness kurtosis test for normality. The test yielded a Chi2-statistic of 1.82insignificant
at all conventional levels of significance (Pr(Chi2)=0.40), leadingus to accept the normality assumption with all its
implications. However, caution should be maintained due, as well, to possible endogeneity issues which would
require the use of instrumental variable techniques and/or paneldata to improve the reliability of the estimates.
  We obtain an approximate decrease of 40% if we assume that the schools rehabilitated (approx. 75% of all
secondary schools) include (but are not limited to) all the ones with the current worst infrastructure and equipment
and the rehabilitation effort leads them to reach a state of fully satisfactory infrastructure and equipment (proportion
of deprived infrastructure equal to zero).
u The assumptionis that: (a) all students pass only one more exam, English or Math (equivalent to assume that 52%
of the total secondary graduate population passesone more exam); and (b) the studentincreasesare distributed
proportionally to the current distribution across the four CXC categoriesof Table 5 to provide the same likelihood of
success across categories.
iil
  Detailedresults of this analysis are available in the project files.




                                                          - 56 -

   Concept                    ImplementationPeriod                          Tot       Operational Period
                             2003104   200805     2005106   2006107               2007108 2008109 2009110 2010111
   ProjectCosts
       InvestmentCosts          0.8       3.6       4.3         2.2         10.9
       RecurrentCosts           0.03    0.03        0.1         0.2          0.4   0.2        0.2      0.2     0.2

   Total:                       0.9      3.6        4.4         2.4          11.3  0.2        0.2      0.2     0.2


   Overview of public educationexpenditureand fiscal impact of the projectinGrenada

   a. Overview

                Table I-Grenada-Data on Expenditure Levels in the Education Sector and Unit Costs
                                                                  (incurrent EC$millions)
                                     1997           1998        1999      2000      1001       2002         ~1
                                                                                                          2003
 Total public expenditurein               41.3       49.3         60.5     62.6      70.6         70.5
 education
 Total public recurrentexpenditure        37.9        45.7      46.8        46.4     52.5         53.7    53.81
                                                                                                          I
 in education
   Total public expenditure in            34.1        39.0        41.2      40.8       43.3       45.7
   salaries in education
 Total public capital expenditure in      4.0         4.0         13.7       16.2      18.0       16.8
 education
 Recurrent expenditure in                 91.8       92.7         77.4     74.1        74.4       76.1
 education1totaleducation

                                                                             87.9      82.5       85.1    I


                                                                             25.9      25.6       23.8


                                                                             5.7       6.6        6.3

                                                                             14.6      15.1       15.4


                                                                             17.3      17.7       17.4


                                                                          12.3         13.8       13.9    15.21

                                                                             10.7      11.7       12.1    13.61

                                                                          87.3         84.7       86.9
1education1Recurrentexpenditure in
 secondarveducation (9%)                          I          I
 Memorandumitems (secondary
 sub-sector):

 Numberof students                        5.185    1  8,376    1 8.702    9. I42     9.89 1       10.371




                                                           -57-

Number of teachers                     394             380          392     406

Pupil-Teacher ratio                     21             22           22      23

Unit Costs (current ECS)               1.026          1,241        1,390    1,345     1,395   1,340
Unit Costs (in 1997 EC$)               1,026          1,221        1,356    1.289
                        Notes:InItalic: estimates. Fiscal Year (1 January-31December).
                        Source: Grenada-Ministry of Finance(several issuesof the Budget Estimates) and own
                        elaborations;
                        Grenada-EducationStatistical Digest (2002)

An education expenditure-GDP ratio of around 6% indicates that Grenada is giving high priority to
education, even if in terms of its recurrent national budget education expenditures are slightly decreasing
(from around 19% in 1998/1999 to around 17% in recent years). The 2001 estimated education budget i s
increasing in real terms (even assuming that the capital budget i s over-estimated), pursuingthe trend of
the last few years, but the 2002 budget decreases in real terms, showing reversal in the past trend. This
reversal can be linked to the economic crisis affecting Grenada since 2001 (where GDP decreased by
3%), which reflects the global slowdown, continued weaknesses in agriculture, manufacturing and, since
the September 11, 2001 attacks, tourism. The fiscal situation of the country also deteriorated markedly in
2001 (an overall deficit of 8% of GDP is expected in 2002). Although we can consider that this standstill
in the budget will not last once the economic situation recovers, it is also unlikely that in the medium
term the past high real growth rates of the budget might be sustained. Preliminary estimates for 2003
show a stagnant recurrent budget but an increasingcapital budget, which make it possible to maintain the
current education budget share as a proportion of the GDP.

The education expenditure analysis shows a satisfactory share of capital and non-salary recurrent
expenditure out of, respectively, total and recurrent expenditure in the overall education sector, as well as
a generally acceptable (around 1 2 4 % ) share of non-salary recurrent expenditure in the secondary
sub-sector, which point to the production of quality education. Care should be taken to maintain a share
of at least 15% inthe secondary sub-sector.

The same analysis also shows that, in the secondary sub-sector, after an initial increase from 1997 to
1998, unit costs have remained generally quite stable over the 1998-2002 time period, and the trend in
the pupil-teacher ratio was similar. The pupil-teacher ratio i s currently at an acceptable level of 23:l.

b. Projections

Assuming that the GDP real growth rate is around 3% over the 2003-2010 time period (1) and that
education remains a strong priority for the country, we can assume that the education budget will grow at
a similar 3% rate maintaining the education expenditure-GDP ratio around the current 6.3%. Under this
scenario, total project costs will amount to an average of 10% of the education budget in the
implementation period and to 0.7% of the same budget during the operational period. This should not
represent an excessive financial burden on the MOE budget. On the recurrent side, the incremental
recurrent costs produced by the project will represent only about 0.4% of the projected recurrent budget
(assuming this grows at a rate of 3% as well) in the implementation period and 1% in the operational one.




                                                            - 58 -

Table 2: Grenada-Financial Impact of the 1 3ject
                    I 2001 fa)    I 2002       I 2003                                2007
                            \ ,
GDP                     1075          1118       1152     1186               1258     1296  1335                 1416
                                                                                                   1          1
(in EC$ millions)
(b)(cj
Education Budget        70.6          70.5        72.6                                81.7  84.2      86.7       89.3
(EC$ millions)
(bj
Recurrent               52.5         53.7         55.3                                62.3
Education Budget
(ECS millions)
(b)
Education               6.6           6.3          6.3                                6.3
Budget as share
of GDP (%)
Project Cost
(EC$ millions)
( 4Investment                                     2.2
                                                 0.07      0.07       0.3     0.5     0.6
  Recurrent
                                                  2.3      10.1      11.8     6.5     0.6    0.6   1   0.6    I   0.6

Project Cost share                                                                    0.7
of Education
Budget                           I             I   3.2

                                                                                       I
Cost share of
Recurrent
Education Budget

Notes:InItalic: estimates. (a) Calendaryears; (b) in 200:          I       I                       I          I
                                                         )rites from 2002 onwards; (cbsumer Tat GDP grows at an average
of 3% between2003 and 2010; (dj in 2002 prices.

(1) This i s a conservative assumption based on the IMF- Medium-Term Scenario (2003 Art. IV IMFConsultation).




                                                             - 59 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                     GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program

Procurement

A) ProcurementArrangements

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised JanuaryIAugust
1996, September 1997 and January 1999);and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consliltants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999,January 1999 and May
2002), and the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement.

1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the
use of each method are fixed in Table B.

Procurementof Works

Works procured under this project would include expansion and upgrading of existing secondary schools
to provide additional places, modern science laboratories and learning resource centers; refurbishing of
classrooms for district education offices (DEOs) in seven (7) schools; and expansion and upgrading of
TAMCC to provide a model classroom and improved ICT facilities. These works would total US$5.29
million equivalent. Major contracts for these works will be procured following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued standard bidding documents for small works. Works
estimated to cost less than US$1.5 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.20 million
will be procured following National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB) using standard bidding
documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$lSO,OOO
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.09, may be procured on the basis of at least
three quotations received in response to a written invitation to qualified contractors, which will include a
detailed description of the works, basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.

Procurementof Goods

Goods procured under this project would include furniture for schools, the PMU, the DEOs and
TAMCC; the core textbooks; equipment and materials for science and computing labs, Learning
Resource Centers, the DEOs and TAMCC; equipment and software for the EMIS; printing of curricula,
manuals and handbooks, and communications campaign materials totaling US$2.44 million equivalent.
To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more than
$150,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using
Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts with estimated values below $150,000 but over
US$25,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.75 million may be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger biddingpackages and estimated to cost less than
US$25,000per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.79 million, may be procured using shopping
(National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                   - 60 -

Selection of Consultants:

Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: Technical
Assistance for architectural designs and supervision of works, development of new curricula and related
training programs, improvement of student evaluation, review of the teacher appraisal system,
development of a communication and public awareness system, and design and training of a management
information system. These services are estimated to cost US$1.24 million equivalent and would be
procured usingBank Standard Request for Proposals when hiringfirms.

Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS, except for simple contracts estimated to cost
US$0.05 million equivalent or less that would be procured usingLCS or CQ.

Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 through
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, upto an aggregate amount of US$0.69 million.

Training: Training activities will include: cost of tuition, material and traveling for overseas post
graduate, local and distance training of teachers and guidance counselors; cost of venue, food, materials
and traveling to provide and/or attend local training seminars on new curricula, student evaluation, and
Management Information System. Training and consultants' services are estimated to cost US$l.35
million equivalent and would be procured following shopping procedures or contracting consultants as
applicable.

School Improvement Projects (SIP): The Loan would partially finance the cost of goods and services
for the implementation of demand-driven projects to be proposed by schools. These projects are
estimated to cost US$0.40 million equivalent. Goods for these projects will be procured under shopping
procedures.

Student Prizes: The Project will include cash prizes for winners o f student competitions in art, written
essays, poetry or debate, which will be held annually to generate interest in the education reform at the
secondary school level and among the general public. These cash prizes, estimated at US$7,000, will be
financed with Government counterpart funding.

Recurrent Costs: Recurrent costs, such as costs of utilities, and operation and maintenance costs,
incremental staff and office supplies estimated at US$0.35 million, will be entirely financed by the
Government.

Operating Expenses: Operating expenses such as salaries of the P M U staff and school supplies
estimated at US$O.17 million, will be entirely financed by the Government.

2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project management unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this
prior review of individual procurement actions, the procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by
the Bank annually.

With respect to each training program, the objective of the specific training program and the estimated
cost of it shall be furnished to the World Bank for its prior review and approval.



                                                   -61 -

B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

An assessment of the capacity of the MOE to implement procurement actions for the project has been
carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on May 14, 2003. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed Project and found it satisfactory. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) resides within the Ministry of Education and i s supervised by a Project
Manager reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary. This Unit is staffed by seven persons: (i)a
Project Coordinator, (ii)a Project Accountant, (iii)a Secretary; (iv) a Procurement Officer who prepares
tender documents, notices, supervision of consultants, coordination of tender, and evaluation report
preparation; (v) a School Supplies Officer who manages the Ministry's fleet of vehicles, assesses the
needs of the schools in relation to supplies, orders the relevant goods and distributes them to the
beneficiary schools; (vi) an assistant to whom the School Supplies Officer delegates as need arises and
(vii) a proposed Accounts Clerk. The PMU will manage project procurement and funds, and coordinate
project activities among the other Divisions involved in the Project. The Financial Analyst for the MOE
will oversee the financial aspects of Project implementation.

Determination of the Risk assessmenti s Average, considering that the Bank's procedures normally have
been adopted and the primacy of the World Bank's rules and documents has been recognized in the
implementation of all other World Bank projects in Grenada. In addition, the analysis included the
assessmentof administrative, political and financial aspects of the new project and took into account the
level of transparency and predictability of the procurement process.

The following Action plan was agreed upon with the PMU staff to improve the long-term capacity of the
agency to administer procurement. These actions shouldbe carried out by loan effectiveness:
        Submission to the Bank of acceptable standard documents for request of quotations for the
        procurement of works under shopping modality and NCB;
        Submission to the Bank of satisfactory terms of reference for the procurement of consultant
        services due to start during the six first months of project implementation; such services would
        cover the architectural and engineering aspects of rehabilitation of schools, assistance in the
        preparation of bidding documents up to contract award and supervision of works (to be
        determined in the framework of the institutional competencies of the MOPW);
        Written reconfirmation of the permanent PMU (in principle the present P M U staff will remain in
        place for the new project, but one new position will be added);
        Preparation by the PMU, with the assistance of the Bank, of a detailed procurement plan for the
        first year of implementation (the draft was presented during appraisal);
        Preparation by the P M U of an operations manual with a specific chapter on procurement
        detailing all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow o f documentation; and
        Establishment of a procurement filing system in accordance with Bank's requirements.

Finally, procurement training will be provided by the Bank to the PMU, including a seminar on
procurement to cover consulting services, shopping and NCB, and a 1-day seminar at advanced level for
managers. This training will likely be carried out duringthe project launch seminar.

C)Procurement Plan

At appraisal, the Borrower will present a preliminary procurement plan for project implementation that
provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan will
be approved by the RPA and placed in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar year, the
Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.


                                                   - 62 -

D)Frequencyof Procurement Supervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessmentof
the PMU has recommended one full supervision mission every twelve months to visit the field to carry
out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE), the
post-review field analysis should cover a sample o f not less than 1 in 10contracts signed.

Procurement methods (Table A)

                        Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                          for Grenada
                                               (in US$millionequivalent)

                                                                                                                      1
      ExpenditureCategory                  ProcurementMethod                                           Total Cost
                                                                                                         (including
                                                                                                      contingencies)
                                              ICB           NC6          Other           NBF
       Works                                                 3.20     I    2.09 al  IIII
                                                                                    1                       5.29
                                                             (2.56)       (1.67)                           (4.23)
       Goods                            I      0.90          0.75          0.79 h/                          2.44
                                              (0.68)   III   (0.57)   III (0.61)                           (1.86)
       ConsultantServicesc/ I                                              0.84            0.40     I       1.24
                                                                          (0.69)          (0.00)           (0.69)
      Training Services d/                                                 1.35                             1.35
                                                                          (0.81)                           (0.81)
       School lmmovement                                                   0.40                             0.40
       projectse/                                                         (0.36)                           (0.36)
       Student Prizes                                                                      0.01             0.01
                                                                                          (0.00)           (0.00)
       RecurrentCosts                                                                      0.35             0.35
                                                                                          (0.0)            (0.0)
       Operational Expenses                                                                0.17             0.17
                                                                                          (0.00)           (0.00)
      Front end fee                                                        0.04                             0.04
                                                                          (0.04)                            (0.04)
       Total                                   0.90          3.95          5.51            0.93            11.30
                                              (0.68)         (3.13)       (4.18)          (0.00)            (8.00)

       Note:    N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.

       Footnotes:
       a/ Small works (three quotations)
       b/ Shopping (National and International)
       c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A-1
       d/ include: cost of extemal fellowship for graduate. venue, food. materials and traveling to provide and/or
           attend seminars. Cost of logistics about US0.95 million.
       e/ Goods and services for the implementationof school improvement projects to he proposed by schools
           (US$3,000per school per year)




                                                              - 6 3 -

                        Table A1:Consultant Selection Arrangements
                                    (in US$millionequivalent)

 Consultant                        SelectionMethod                            Total Cost
  Services                                                                    (including
 Expenditure                                                                 contingencies)
  Category     QCBS I QBS 1    SFB I   LCS    I  CQ    I Other 1    N.B.F. 1
A. Firms         0.25                   0.05      0.25                             0.55
                (0.19)                 (0.04)    (0.19)                           (0.42)

B.                                                          0.29     0.40          0.69
individuals
                                                           (0.22)   (0.00)        (0.22)
       Total     0.25                   0.05      0.25      0.29     0.40           1.24
                (0.21)                 (0.04)    (0.20)    (0.24)   (0.00)         (0.69)

        Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
               QBS = Quality-basedSelection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-CostSelection
               CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selectionof individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
               Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
 Figures in parenthesisare the amountsto be financed by the Bank loan.




                                           - 64 -

   Expenditure         Contract Value            Procurement   Contmcts Subject to
r- I Category            (Threshold)               Method
                   I                                           Prior Review
                       US$thousands                           I      US $ millions    I
            ~




Individuals           >50                  Three candidates    All (TOR,contract, CV)
Section V of          <50                  Three candidates    All (TOR)
Guidelines

Overall Procurement RiskAssessment:

                     Average
                     Low         U
Frequency of procurement post-review supervision missions proposed: One every 12
months, reviewing a sample of 1in 10 contracts signed.




                                            - 65 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                      GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program

Financial Management
1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment
The appraisal mission updated the financial management assessment that was carried out during the
pre-appraisal mission in January 2003. The mission found that the proposed P M U for the OECS
Education Development Project in Grenada has an adequate financial management structure, keeps
adequate automated accounting records and has intemal controls in place. However, the PMU needs to
implement key actions as specified in the action plan in order to meet the needs of the new project and
satisfy the Bank's minimum financialmanagement requirements by negotiations and effectiveness.

Ithas been agreed with the PMU, as reportedinthe appraisal Aide Memoire, that: (1) the PMUwill open
the Special Account in USD in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank (Scotia Bank has been
selected and approved by the Bank for this purpose); (2) Loadcredit funds will be disbursed to the
Special Account on the basis o f SOEs; (3) each quarter, the P M U will prepare Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) to be submitted to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter (FMRs will include a
narrative outlining the major project achievements for the quarter, the project's sources and uses of
funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a physical progress report, and a
procurement report); and (4) annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORS)both acceptable to the Bank.

Conclusion. On the basis o f the assessment performed, the financial management team concludes that,
upon completion of the proposed action plan, the financial management of the PMU would satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. Therefore, the team would advise that the
conditions listed in the assessment be considered as conditions of effectiveness in the legal agreement to
be prepared and signed with the Borrower under the Grenada OECS Education Development Project.

Implementing Entity
The implementing entity for this project is the Ministry o f Education (MOE), which has overseen the
successful implementation of the Basic Education Reform Project, funded in part by the World Bank. For
the purpose of implementing the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established within
the MOE, utilizing the structure established under the recently completed Basic Education Reform
Project (BERP). The P M U staff comprises a Project Manager, a Procurement Officer, a Project
Accountant, an Accounts Clerk, a Secretary, a Supply Officer and an Executive Officer. The PMU is
responsible for the management and administration of the project, including overall coordination and
implementation of the project, coordination of the contributions of entities participating in this project,
communication with the World Bank, procurement of all civil works, goods and services under the
project, preparation of progress reports, maintenance of all project financial accounts andpreparation and
processing of applications for withdrawals o f proceeds from the Loadcredit.

Funds Flow
Procedures for flow of funds from the LoanICredit and the required counterpart contribution will be
implemented with due regard to safeguarding the project's resources and ensuring timely execution of
payments. The PMU will open a Special Account (SA) in US Dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank. The project has selected Scotia Bank for this purpose, which has been approved by the Bank.




                                                   - 66 -

Due to the experience of the P M U with SOE-based disbursement procedures under the previous project,
Loadcredit funds will be disbursed to the Special Account on the basis o f Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) sent to the Bank on a monthly basis.

The P M U will also operate a Project Account for the purpose of receiving counterpart funds from the
Government of Grenada and provide the counterpart funds for vendor payments. This account will also
be maintained in a commercial bank, most likely Scotia Bank.

As eligible expenditures are incurred, the PMU will withdraw the amount to be financed by IBRD/IDA
from the Special Account in accordance with the financing percentage agreed and initiate a transfer from
that account to the vendor, representing the portion of the expenditure to be financed by the Bank. It will
withdraw the counterpart portion of the payment from the Project Account and initiate a transfer or write
a check from the Project Account. Therefore, in most cases, payment to vendors will need to be done
using two checks or transfers. This will ensure that Government and BRD/IDA funds are not
co-mingled.

The following diagram illustrates the proposedflow of funds.




  Direct                                   Special                   Allocation
  Payments                      I          Commitment




                          FUNDS ONLY




                             portion of




Counterpart funding will be provided by the Government of Grenada. The mission confirmed that an
ample amount of counterpart funds have been included in the 2003 Budget Estimates for the OECS
Education Development Project in Grenada (EC$400,00). However, during meetings with the Permanent
Secretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the current difficult fiscal situation in Grenada was
discussed with the purpose of arriving at alternatives to mitigate risks associated with the fiscal
environment. For this reason. and to minimize the risk of delays in the implementation of the project,



                                                   -67-

especially in the first year, the following condition of effectiveness has been proposed: that a Project
Account be opened before effectiveness and an initial deposit corresponding to the first year o f
counterpart funds be deposited.

Inorder to obtain counterpart funds, the PMUsubmits its annual budget request via the Financial Analyst
at the MOE who is responsible for overseeing all Capital Projects for the MOE, and the approved
funding levels are included in the annual estimates. The MOF will release the funds to the PMU every
quarter (or more frequently if needed) based on expenditure projections submitted by the PMU via the
Financial Analyst.

Staffing
The PMU, established under the Basic Education Reform Project (BERP), includes a Project Accountant,
who will assume the day-to-day accounting responsibilities for the project and report to the Project
Manager. The Project Accountant, who worked under the BERP, has acquired sufficient knowledge o f
the Bank's financial management and disbursement procedures to operate effectively and efficiently on
this project. She has also gained extensive knowledge relating to the accounting system used. Therefore,
it is the opinion of the appraisal team that the candidate identified for the Project Accountant is qualified
and capable of handling all aspects of project financial management.

Due to the added workload likely to be associated with the School Improvement Projects (SIPS), the
PMU has proposed the addition of an Account Clerk who will mainly be responsible for preparing
payment vouchers with supporting documentation, responding to vendor inquiries and assisting the
Project Accountant. A candidate for this position has not yet been identified, but it expected that the
position will be filled prior to effectiveness. A meeting with the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of
Finance indicated that an agreement had been reached regarding the addition of the Accounts Clerk to the
PMU.

AccountingPolicies and Procedures
Accounting and administrative procedures sections have been included in the operations manual to
ensure that financial transactions are made with consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring
proper entry in the accounting/monitoring systems. The project accounting system used by the PMU
(Quickbooks Pro) has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project,
and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting the Bank's fiduciary
requirements.

Project Operations Manual. Policies and procedures defined in an Operational Manual aim to control
project activities and ensure staff accountability. The P M U intends to use the same policies and
procedures used for the BERP. A financial management manual has been prepared for the new project. It
will be updated and complemented with other areas, such as budget preparation, management of
subprojects, procurement procedures and project implementation information. The Operations Manual
for the OECS Education Development project was in draft format at the date of the assessment and
should be finalized before loan effectiveness.

Segregation of duties. The PMUs organizational structure and established procedures support an
adequate segregation of procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities. The authorization to
execute a transaction is the main responsibility of the Project Manager. The recording of the transaction
is the main responsibility of the Project Accountant. And, the custody of the assets involved in the
transaction is mainly the responsibility o f the Procurement Officer.




                                                     - 68 -

Budgeting. The Loadcredit agreement, the procurement plan, the implementation plan and the cost
tables will provide the main input for the project budgets. The Project Accountant, with input from the
Project Manager and Procurement Officer, will prepare an annual budget for the PMU and submit it to
the MOE Financial Analyst for inclusion in the Budget Estimates for counterpart funding. The annual
budget will include:

   0    An annual work plan classified by major goal/objectives, includingphysical and financial
        programs;
   0    A budget proposal(broken down at least quarterly) specifying the detailed expenditures by major
        component, category and sources of funds.

Each quarter, the PMU will produce monitoring reports and cash forecasts (FMRs) to assess progress
against financial and physical goals to be shared with the Project Manager and the Financial Analyst at
the MOE. These reports will also be presented to the M O F and the Bank on a quarterly basis.

Paymentsand operationof bank accounts. Beforepayments for acquisition of goods, services or civil
works can be processed by the PMU, a purchase order and/or contract must exist. On the basis of these
documents, payment vouchers are prepared and after approval has been obtained, payment i s issued,
provided that there is available budget.

After the vouchers have been prepared by the Project Accountant, the bank draft or check will be signed
by the authorized signatories (one from MOE and one from MOF). The PMU will initiate payment by
sending the bank draft to the bank (or check directly to vendor for local payments only). The bank draft
will ask the bank to debit the Special Account for the portion of expenditures eligible for Bank financing
and the Project Account for the portion of the expenditure to be covered by counterpart funds.

The payment, by check or transfer, will be processed by the P M U against the recorded vouchers. Each
disbursement from the Project Account will require any of the following two signatories:

   0    The Permanent Secretary, Ministry o f Education
   0    The Project Manager
   0    The Accountant General or the Assistant Accountant General (MOF)

Bank account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Project Accountant and
reviewed by the Project Manager.

Accounting. The mission reviewed the accounting system, QuickBooks Pro, used by the project and
determined that the system allows for the recordingo f transactions under the cash basis in local currency
(or USD). Furthermore,       the system allows for expenditures to be segregated by project
component/activity, major disbursement category and financing source. This is compatible with the
Bank's recommended practices for project accounting. The project's accounting system will therefore
provide the flexibility necessary to keep track of project expenditures according to Bank practices.

The mission reviewed the proposed chart o f account and was satisfied that it will enable the tracking of
expenditures by sub-components, sources of financing and category. However suggestions were made
regarding the accounts used to record payments. To facilitate reporting, the chart of account should be set
up based on categories of disbursement, the class list should be set up to track the components and sub
components, and the customer job list should track the various sources o f financing.




                                                    - 69 -

Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody of the respective secondary
schools within the MOE. The PMU proposes to keep a detailed subsidiary record (asset register) o f
equipment acquired. The amounts in the register will be reconciled monthly against the respective
account balances. And, at least one annual physical inspection of the assets will be undertaken by PMU
staff, preferably with the participation of external auditors.

Implementation of School Improvement Projects (SIPS).For School Improvement Projects (SIPS),
payments of major invoices will be processed centrally at the P M U and small lump sum allocations will
be provided to the schools using counterpart funds to enable them to cover smaller expenditures. For
schools receiving lump sum allocation, a person responsible for managing the funds will need to be
identified in each school and trained by the Project Accountant in basic bookkeeping. Each month, the
school would send a Statement of Expenditures, with copies of supporting documentation and an account
reconciliation. It was also agreed that the Project Accountant would visit each school on a quarterly basis
to review their books/ledgers.

Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying both the Government and
IBRDKDA's monitoring and fiduciary purposes. All reports produced by the PMU will be shared with
the MOE Financial Analyst for her reporting to the MOF.

The PMU's Accountant will be responsible for producing monthly reports (reconciliations and the
project's sources and uses of funds, a matrix classifying receipts and expenditures by financing source,
subcomponent and disbursement category) to share with the Project Manager.

Each quarter, the P M U will prepare the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be submitted to the
Bank 45 days after the end o f each quarter. The FMRs will include a narrative outlining the major project
achievements for the quarter, the project's sources and uses of funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures
by sub-component, a physical progress report, and a procurement report. FMRs should be submitted to
the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period. Quarterly FMRs will also be used for
internal reportingto the M O E and MOF.

The annual financial statements will include the project's sources and uses of funds, a detailed analysis
o f expenditure by sub-component, the schedule of SOEs presented during the year and a reconciliation o f
the Special Account. These reports will be made available to the auditors after the end of the fiscal year.

Strengths and Weaknesses
The use of Quickbooks Pro will enable the PMUto maintain a record of expenditures in accordance with
the Bank's recommended practices for project accounting. In addition, the PMU will be staffed with
experienced professionals, trained on Bank's policies and procedures. However, some weaknesses exist
inthe project financial management plan, addressedin the table below:

            Significant Weaknesses                                     Resolution
Recording of project assets.                        Creation o f a fixed asset register reconciled
                                                    monthly to the balance o f goods accounts in
                                                    the accounting system and performphysical
                                                    inventory.
The P M Udoes not have any experience               Implementation of SOE-based disbursement.
producing Financial Monitoring Reports
IFMRs).



                                                    - 70 -

 Risk Analysis
 Inherentrisk is the susceptibility of the project financial management system to factors arising from the
 environment in which it operates, such as country rules and regulations and entity working environment.

 Control risk is the risk that the project's accounting and internal control framework are inadequate to
 ensure that project funds are used economically and efficiently and for the purpose intended, and that the
 use of funds i s properly reported.

 The table below represents the risk analysis relating to the financial management of the OECS Education
 Development Project in Grenada.

I                 Risk                  I RiskRating I             Risk Mitigation Measures            I

 Inherentrisk
  Country specific                        High            To mitigate the tight fiscal situation in the
                                                          country, there is a proposed condition of
                                                          effectiveness: open a project account with
                                                          an initial deposit correspondingto the
                                                          first year of counterpart funding to ensure
                                                          smooth implementation.
  Entity/project specific                 Low             Project Manager to oversee P M Ustaff
                                                          and P M U Staff have considerable
                                                          exoerience with Bankfinanced Droiects

 Control risk
  ImplementingEntity                   F""                P M U was established under the Basic
                                                          Education Reform Project and has             I
                                                          acquired considerable experience
  FundsFlow: Loadcredit funds           Low               Special Account to be opened in a
                                                          commercial bank acceptable to the Bank
                                                           and use of SOEs for disbursement
  FundsFlow: counterpart funds          High               Counterpart funds deposited in a separate
                                                           account for the use of the project, but
                                                           tight fiscal situation
  Staffing                              Low                Project Accountant has experience with
                                                          Bank projects through her involvement
                                                           with the Basic Education ReformProject
  Accounting policies and procedures Low
  Internal Audit                         iigh              Use of external independent auditors to
                                                           audit the project due to capacity issues
                                                           with Auditor General's Office
  External Audit                        Low
  Reporting and Monitoring
I                                      IModerate        IIUse o f FMRs is new for the project:
                                                           Project Accountant to attend an upcoming     I
                                                          training session
  Information Svstems                  I Low


                                                    -71 -

Financial Management Action Plan

                                Area I Action                             Expected
                                                                             date

1. Implementing entity
None

2. Flow of funds
2.1 Open the project bank accounts: the Special Account inUS Dollars   BY
inthe bank selected, and the project account for counterpart funds.     effectiveness
2.2 Request the initial deposit o f counterpart funds in the Project   BY
Account.                                                                effectiveness

3. Staffing
3.1 Submit revisedTORs for PMUstaff, along with the draft Operations May 14,
Manual                                                                  2003

4. Accounting and internalcontrol
4.1 Submit revised chart account (created in OB).                      Mav 13.2003
4.2 Submit the revisedOperations Manual, includingsection on           May 14,2003
procurement, project implementation and annexes (audit TORs, TORs
for PMUstaff, chart of accounts, section on SIPS, sample of FMRs, etc.)
4.3 Perform physical inventories, at least annually, of the project's   On-going
register of assets.                                                     throughout
                                                                        implementatio
                                                                        n of project
4.4 Once the Loadcredit agreement i s negotiated, prepare annual        On-going
project budgets for inclusion in the government's budget.

5. External audit
5.1 Submit revisedTORs, along with the draft Operations Manual          May 14,
                                                                        2003
5.2 Prepare the short list of firms and submit to IBRDIIDAfor review    BY
and clearance.                                                          effectiveness
5.3 Once the Bank clears the TOR and short list of auditor firms,       BY
Droceed with biddintrDrocess and the amointment of the auditors..       effectiveness



Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 "Standard" wording: audit reports to be fumished to IBRD/IDA no later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year.

Section 4.02 "Standard" wording: the due date for the first FMRs is 45 days after the end of the quarter
in which effectiveness takes place.




                                                    - 72 -

Supervision Plan
A financial management supervision mission prior to effectiveness is needed to ensure that the financial
management system of the project is in place. After effectiveness, a FM Specialist must review the
annual audit reports and should perform one supervision mission per year.

Conditions
Based on this assessment, we recommend the following conditions:

For effectiveness:
(i) ProjectManagementUnit(PMU)hasbeenfullystaffed,accordingtothespecifications
   The
satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)FinalOperationalManualandSchoolImprovementProjectsOperationalManualapprovedbythe
Bank have been issued;
(iii)Auditors have been appointed;
(iv) The project account has been opened and initial amount deposited, corresponding to the first year of
counterpart funding;
(v) The Special Account has been opened in USD in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit
The PMU will be subject to review by the Auditor General's (AG) office. However, based on the
preliminary findings of the CFAA, the current capacity o f the office of the Director of Audit would not
enable that office to fulfill the audit aspect o f the Bank`s fiduciary requirements. Although no internal
auditor will be assigned to the project, the office of the Director of Audit may decide to perform some
visits to the project, as they are using government funds. The project can expect to be visited by the
Auditor General's office every other year.

ExternalAudit
Due to the CFAA preliminary findings mentioned above, the PMU has been counseled to appoint an
independent private auditor prior to effectiveness. The project has been advised to providethe Bank with
a short list of acceptable firms andTORs by appraisal.

Audit compliance. According to Bank records for the Basic Education Reform Project, since 1997,
audit reports have usually come on time. In addition, the reports have included all the information
required by the Bank and the opinions have been clean.

Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. Auditors should provide audit opinions on project financial
statements, Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), a report on internal controls and a
report on compliance with the terms of the Loadcredit agreement and applicable laws and regulations.
In addition, the auditors will be required to review a sample of SIPS during their audit. Based on a
random sample of schools (including a review of receipts, archiving system and management information
system), the auditor will be required to report on compliance with the internal control mechanisms and
determine the eligibility of the expenditures reported by the schools, in accordance with the project
activities.




                                                     - 73 -

The PMU has been informed that auditors need to be appointed prior to Loan/Credit effectiveness, with
an annual contract to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year.

The PMU will prepare, if needed, a plan to address any issues and recommendations contained in the
audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities will be communicated promptly to the Bank.

The table below summarizes audit requirements:

        Audit Report                                         Due Date
Project financial statements     4 months after fiscal year end (April 30)
SOE                              same as above
Special Accounts                 same as above
Special purpose                  same as above (intemal control and compliance)

3. DisbursementArrangements
The proposed Loan/Credit would be disbursed over an implementation period of about four years.
Disbursements would be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursements
Handbook (Le., traditional disbursement procedures).


               Category             Amount of the Credit     Amount of the Loan       % of Expenditure
                                    Allocated (Expressed Allocated (Expressed in       to be Financed
                                           in SDR)                 Dollars)
    (1) Works                            1,540,000.00            2,000,000.00               80%
    (2) Goods                            640,000.00               900,000.00                75%
    (3) Consultant Service               250,000.00               350,000.00                85%
    (4) Training                         265,000.00               410,000.00                90%
    (4) School Improvement
    Projects                              118,000.00              180,000.00                90%
    (6) Front-end Fee                                             40,000.00                100%
    (7) Unallocated                       87,000.00               120,000.00
    Total Loan Amount                    2,900,000.00            4,000,000.00

Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):

Loan/Credit withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts
that are not subject to the Bank's prior review. Reimbursement of other expenditures would require
submission to the Bank of full supporting documentation.

Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the PMUat least until one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the Loan/Credit withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be available for review by extemal auditors and Bank staff.

Other procedures:
Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval, payments may be made: (i)directly
to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works and services; (ii)to a procurement agent; or (iii)
to a commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank Special Commitment covering a
commercial bank`s letter of credit.


                                                    - 74 -

Special account:
The PMU will establish a Special Account in USD, in a commercial bank (Scotia Bank). The Special
Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the Loadcredit agreement. Under no
circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterpart funds. Transfers from the Special Account to other project bank
accounts will only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of no more than 30
days.

Total advances to the Special Account at any given time would not exceed the authorized allocation for
the project.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the PMU will prepare monthly (in any case not more than
quarterly) requests for reimbursement of expenditures made.




                                                 - 75 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                    GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program



/Timetaken to prepare the project (months)                                     13
/FirstBank mission (identification)             II      06/03/2002    II       06/03/2002    II
 Appraisal mission departure                            05/07/2003             05/07/2003
 Negotiations                                           05/20/2003             05/19/2003
/Planned Date of Effectiveness                  I       0911212003    I                      I

Preparedby:
The Ministry of EducationIProiect ManagementUnit
Augustine John, Minister of Education
Crispin Frederick, PermanentSecretary, Ministry of Education
Martin Baptiste, Chief Education Officer
PeronJohnson, Project Coordinator
Leon Charles, Project PreparationCoordinator
Margaret Belfon, Financial Analyst
Alphonsus Gooding, ProcurementOfficer and Ag. Project Manager
Claudine Henry, Project Accountant
Jenny Alexander, Project Secretary
Jean Brizan, Sr. Education OfficedCurriculum
Dennis Bell, Curriculum Officer
Lillian Sylvester, Director of Libraries
Leo Cato, IT Officer
Junior Alexis, Statistician
Jervis Viechweg, Curriculum Officer
GemmaDeAllie, Principal, St. Rose Modem SecondarySchool
Maria Charles, CurriculumOfficer
Samuel Webster, GrenadaPTA
Patricia Moore, Sports and Culture
Margaret Williams, Guidance Counselor
Anne Antoine, New Life Organization (NGO)
Carol Ferguson, Administration Officer Finance
Hermione Baptiste, Healthand Family Life Division
Byron St. Clair, Sr. Education Officer/ Testing and Measurement
Claudia Morgan-Carter, Testing Officer
Andrea Phillip, Curriculum Officer
Cecil Johnson, Teacher Education Department
Carol Antoine, Curriculum Officer
PauleenFinlay, Teacher EducationDepartment, T.A.Marryshow Community College (TAMCC)
RamsaroopRamkhelawan, Head, Teacher Education Department
Glen Alexander. Primary School Teacher
JustinaNoel, Secondary School Teacher
James Alexander, Principal. McDonaldCollege
Ada Holder, Principal. South St. George's Secondary School
Elaine McQueen. GrenadaUnion of Teachers


                                                  - 76 -

Francis Sookram, Principal, St. Mark's Secondary School
ErvaAlexander, Principal, St. Mark`s Secondary School
Kevin Williams, Materials Production Officer
Anthony Brown, Materials Production Officer
Patricia Felix, Education Officer
Dominic Jeremiah, Principal, PresentationBrothers College
Fanuel Antoine, Basic Needs Trust FundOfficer, Ministry of Works
Anne Pierre, Principal, School for Special Education
RaphaelPatrick, Principal, ResourceCenter for Special Needs Students
Soloman Stafford, Grenada ParentTeachers Association
Victor Ashby, GrenadaBoys Secondary School
Denis Paul, TAMCC
Lincoln Morgan, TAMCC
Maudlyn Ferguson, St. David's Catholic Secondary
Patrick Simmons, St. Andrews Anglican Secondary School
SandraThomas, Ministry of Social Services
Sherma-Ann RobertsJoseph, Departmentof Human Resources
HelenaRoss, Catholic Central Board of Management
Denis Thomas, GrenadaUnion of Teachers
George Wilson, St. John's Christians Secondary School
Daniel Thomas, Happy Hill Secondary School
Thomas Matthew, Ministry of Tourism and Culture, Division of Culture

Department for International DeveloDment
MarcellusAlbertin, Education ProgrammeManager

Preparation assistance:
A Japanese PHRD grant for US$151,400 (TF05743) was approved for project preparation for Grenada.
The activities included: (a) design and preparation of an expanded management information system; (b)
provision of technical assistance to: (i)enhance the teaching training and teaching career system; (ii)
carry out a school mapping exercise; (iii)improve the design and use of learning spaces; and (iv)
strengthen the targeting mechanisms,

Bankstaff who worked on the project ncluded:
         Name                                           Speciality
Cynthia Hobbs                            Task Team Leader
William Experton                         Sector Leader
EmanuelaDi Gropello                      HDEconomist
M.RosaPuech                              Education Consultant
MarianaMontiel                           Country Lawyer
Aracelly Woodall                         Program Assistant/Project Costing
FabienneMroczka                          FinancialManagement
Guido Paolucci                           Senior Procurement Specialist
Marta Ospina                             Procurement Consultant
Juan Manuel Moreno                       Peer Reviewer
Jacob Bregman                            Peer Reviewer




                                                  - 77 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                   GRENADA:(OECS) Education Development Program


A. Project ImplementationPlan
ProjectOperationalManual

ProjectFinancialManagement Manual

SchoolImprovementProjectsand Extracurricular Activities Manual

B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank.MonitoringEducationalPerformance in the Caribbean (ReportNo. 24337).Washington,
DC. 2003.

World Bank. Caribbean Youth and Social Inclusion.Washington, DC. 2002.

World Bank. A CaribbeanEducationStrategy (ReportNo.20452-LAC).Washington,DC. 2000.

World Bank. FirstAnnual Small States Forum(DiscussionDraft). Prague, CzechRepublic. 2000.

World Bank. Trinidad andTobago Youth and SocialDevelopment:An IntegratedApproachfor Social
Inclusion.Washington,DC. 2000.

World Bank.ReviewandAnalysis of InternationalExperiencewith ProgramsTargetedonAt-Risk
Youth. Washington, DC. 1996.

World Bank. TargetingAt-Risk Youths: Rationales, Approaches to ServiceDelivery andMonitoring and
EvaluationIssues. Washington, DC. 1996.

World Bank. Access, Quality andEfficiency in Caribbean Education(Report No. 9753-CRG).
Washington,DC. 1992.

C. Other
Andrew, Max. The EFA 2000Assessment: CountryReports. UNESCO.2000.

Auer, Peter. CurriculumReport for the OECS EducationDevelopmentProject(projectpreparation
consultancy).May 2002.

Barker, Gary and M.Fontes. Reviewand Analysis of InternationalExperiencewith ProgramsTargeted
on At-Risk Youth. July 1996.

Blank, L.Youth-at-Riskin Jamaica (Note preparedfor The World Bank). Washington. DC. 2000.

Caillods, FranGoiseandM.H.Maldonado-Villar. Secondary EducationIssues in LatinAmerica (Draft).
UNESCO. 1996-2001,




                                              - 78 -

Gomart, Elizabeth. Pre-SocialAssessment. SecondaryEducationProjectfor Dominica, Saint Kitts and
Saint Lucia (unpublished; project preparation consultancy). Washington, DC. 2000.

Harewood,Gordon N.AddressingThe LearningNeeds of Males inThe Eastern Caribbean. Final
Report. 2000.

Harewood,Gordon N.AddressingThe LearningNeeds of Malesin The EastemCaribbean. A Regional
Perspective. 2000.

Harrell, A. Evaluating Programs for Vulnerable Children and You. The UrbanInstitute (prepared for the
World Bank). Washington, DC. 1995

Lubben, Fred andJ. George. Science Educationin Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis and St. Lucia(3
volumes): Definitionof the Core Curriculum andImplicationsfor LearningSpaces, Equipment,
Materials andTeacher Education(project preparationconsultancy). April 2002.

Martin, Maeve. Teacher EducationReportfor the OECS Islands: St.Lucia, St.Kitts andNevis, and
Dominica (project preparationconsultancy). September2002.

Ministry of Education,Audit on the Managementand Organizationof the Ministry of Education.
Grenada. 2000.

Mortimore, P. and J. Mortimore. ImprovingEducationalPerformanceof At-RiskYouths, Institute of
Education,University of London [no date].

OECS HumanDevelopmentReport 2002. BuildingCompetitiveness in the Faceof Vulnerability.
OECS.

Sewell, Tony. Organisationof Esatem Caribbean States,EducationDevelopmentProjectYouth at Risk
Report (project preparationconsultancy).July 2002.

West, Amott. ExtendedEMIS for the OECS (Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia: separate
volumes) (project preparationconsultancy). September 2002, May 2003.

*Including electronic files




                                                 - 79 -

                                        Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                GRENADA: (OECS) Education Development Program
                                                              06-Feb-2003
                                                                                                                     Difference between expected
                                                                                                                              and actuai
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
 ProjectlD  FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                      Cancei. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO76715     2003 GR 2nd Phase APL HIVIAIDSPrev.&Control            3.00        3.04                      0.00     6.23        0.00      0.00
PO77682     2002 Grenada EmergencyRecoveryProject                  1.14        2.66                      0.00     2.43       -0.40      0.00
PO69922     2001 GD Grenada DisasterManagement                     5.06        5.01                      0.00     5.27        1.04      0.00

                                                                 ~~           ~

                                                       Total.     9 20       1071                        0.00    13.94        0.64      0.00




                                                                   - 8 0 -

                                         GRENADA
                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                  Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                        Jun 30 - 2002
                                      InMillions USDollars

                                                        Committed                        Disbursed
                                                      IFC                              IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2002           Bel Air                          1.00    0.00       1.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:           1.00    0.00       1.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                    ADDrovals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                             Loan     Equity      Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:             0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00




                                              - 81 -

                                                Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                               GRENADA: (OECS) EducationDevelopment Program
                                                                        Latin     Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                    America     middle-
                                                        Grenada      &Carib.     income         Development diamond'
2001
Population, midyear (millions)                               0.10        524         504
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                                                           Lifeexpectancy
                                                            3,660       3,560      4,460
GNi (Atlas method, US$billions)                              0.36       1,862      2,248                          -

Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                i

Population()                                                  0.8         1.5         1 3
Labor force (X)                                                           2.2         1.8      GNI                       -    '     Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                           per                                primary
                                                                                               capita                          enroiiment
Poverty (X of populationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation ph of totalpopulation)                         38          76          77
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                72          70          71                         L
Infantmortality (per 7,000 live bifihs)                        13          29          24
Childmalnutrition ("A of childrenunder5)                                    9           9            Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (X ofpopulation)             94          85          87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 754                                         11          10
Grossprimawenrollment (X of school-agepopulation)                        130         127          -Grenada
    Male                                                                 131         128                 Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                               128         126

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1981     1991        2000        2001        Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                   0.09     0.24        0.41        0.40
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                         41.3     37.9       42.5         32.0
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                  44.7      40.7        58.0        58.8                       Trade
GrossdomesticsavingsiGDP                            -3.5     16.9       25.6         20.7
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                    17.9       22.1         19.9
CurrentaccountbalanceiGDP                          -18.8    -15.4       -20.3       -17.6
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                 0.5      0.7         0.7         1.4       Domestic    -                 investment
Total debffGDP                                     41.2      60.3       48.0         57.8       savings
Total debt service/exports                           3.6      3.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                40.8                                       -
Presentvalue of debtkxwrts
                                                                                                              indebtedness
                                         1981-91 199141     2000        2001    2001-05
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                          6.3     3.8      6.9        -4.7                       -Grenada
GDP percapita                                5.7     3.3      5.8        -5.7                             UDDer-middle-incomearouo
Exportsof goodsand services                  6.7     7 8     -0.7        -3 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1981     1991        2000        2001       __-__
                                                                                                Growthof investment and GDP ("A)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        25.4      13.1         8.2         8.2      40-

Industry                                            14.6    20.0        23.8         23.2      20
   Manufacturing                                     3.5      6.5         8.8         8.4       0
Services                                           59.9     66.8        68.0         68.6      -20
Privateconsumption                                 83.4     62.1        60.0         62.2      do
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       20.1     21.0         14.4        17.1
Importsof goods andservices                        89.5     61.7        74.8         70.1                 -GDI           '-O-GDP


                                                1981-91 1991-01         2000        2001      ____________                              __
(averageannualgroqrowth)                                                                       Growth of exports and imparts(%)           I
Agriculture                                         -0.4     -1.0        -2.2        -3.3      0-                                         I
Industry                                            7.6       6.5        14.5        -5.6
   Manufacturing                                   12.2       6.4        13.8        -7.6
Services                                            6.9       3.7         5.1        -2.6

Privateconsumption                                  2.6       3.2       20.2         -1.2
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        7.5       1.o         7.5        13.5     -20 -    96     97    98

Gross domestic investment                           5.9       5.3       13.2       -28.1
Importsof goods and sewices                         3.0       6.3       13.9        -10.7

Note: 2001 data are preiiminaryesfimates.
'ThediamondsshowtourkeyindicalorsintheCountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwillbeincomplete.




                                                                    - 82 -

                                                                                                            Grenada

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1981  1991    2000  2001
Domestic prices
(99change)                                                                                                             I
Consumer prices                           18.9   2.6     2.2    3.2
Implicit GDP deflator                      4.2   6.8     0.7   2.8

Government finance
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                 24.0    27.1  26.3
Current budget balance                          -0.5     6.1   2.3
Overall surplusideficit                         -9.0    -6.2  -12.8            ---GDPdellatar        +CPI              I

TRADE
                                          1981  1991    2000  2001
(US$millions)                                                          Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                                                                    I
                                                 25      85     64
  Cocoa                                            4      12    14   300-I

  Bananas                                          2       3     4
  Manufactures                                     8     60     34
Total imports (cif)                              121    243    196
  Food                                           28      39     38
  Fuel and energy                                  9     24     22                                                     I
 Capital goods                                   28      75     65

Export price index (7995=100)                    101     116   117           95    96    97    98      99   w      01

Import price index (7995=100)                    92      95     92                  k% Exports       m Imports
Terms of trade (7995=100)                        110     122   128

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1981  1991    2000  2001
(US$millions)                                                          Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              39    114     235   208     0 -
Imports of goods and services              79    154     304   275
Resource balance                           -39   -40     -69   -67          -
Net income                                        -8     -34   -26   -10

Net current transfers                      23     10     20     23
Current account balance                    -17   -37     -83   -70
Financing items (net)                       19   38       89    76
Changes in net reserves                     -2     0      -7     -6   -30   .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            19      59    65
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocai/US$)           2.7   2.7     2.7    2.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1981  1991    2000  2001
(US$ millions)                                                         Composition of 2001 debt (US%mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        36   146     195   230
  IBRD                                       0     0       2      3
  IDA                                        0     7      10      9

Total debt service                           1     5      14    16
  IBRD                                       0     0       0      0
  IDA                                        0     0       0      0
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                            2     9       7
  Official creditors                        10     3      13    14
  Private creditors                          1    11      28     -4
  Foreign direct investment                  0    15      37
  Portfolio equity                           0     0       0                                       E: 73
World Bank program
  Commitments                                0     0      10      0    A IBRD                            E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                              0     2       3      1    B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                    -                    F -Private
  Principal repayments                       0     0       0      0    C IMF
                                                                         ---                             G Short-term
                                                                                                           -
  Net flows                                  0     2       3      1
  Interest payments                          0     0       0      0
  Net transfers                              0     2       3      1

ueveiopmenr economics                                                                                           Y/Zd,UZ




                                                     - 83 -

-84-

MAP SECTION


