Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3809-GR 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(OECS Education Development Project) 
 
between 
 
GRENADA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 1, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3809-GR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2003, between GRENADA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the 
Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to provide additional 
assistance for the financing of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equal to four 
million Dollars (the Loan); and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the Loan are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and are hereby incorporated to this 
Page  3
-
2
-
Agreement, provided that the exceptions listed under Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
shall apply. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,900,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.  
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15  and October 15  in each year. 
 
Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 2038.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 (b) 
Whenever: 
(i) 
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and 
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association 
and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.  
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
Articles III and IV of, and Schedules 1, 2, 4 and 5 to, the Loan Agreement are hereby 
incorporated to this Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect irrespective of 
the termination of the Loan Agreement, with the following modifications in said Articles 
and Schedules (unless the context otherwise requires): 
 
(a) 
the term "Bank" shall be read as "Association"; 
 
(b) 
the term "Loan" and "Loan Account" shall be read as "Credit" and 
"Credit Account" other than in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and 
 (c) 
the term "this Agreement" and “the Loan Agreement” shall be read as 
"the Development Credit Agreement". 
 
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise 
by the Association:  
Page  6
-
5
-
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to 
any Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or 
given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and 
 
(b)      all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank or 
to the Association with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements referred to therein, or of the Development Credit Agreement, 
shall be deemed to have been furnished to both the Bank and the Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
 
Section 4.02. The date December 29, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Development of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance, Planning and Development 
Financial Complex 
The Carenage, 
St. George, Grenada 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(473) 440-4115 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
GRENADA 
 
By /s/ Denis G. Antoine 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President  
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
