Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:. 19402
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 3241 - PK)
June 25, 1999
Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal year, 1990       US$ 1.00             Rs 21.5 (at appraisal)
Original closing year, 1996    US$ 1.00         Rs 36.1 (annual average)
Completion year, 1998      US$ 1.00             Rs 45.8 (annual average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIMP                Core Investment and Maintenance Program
FDRP         =      Flood Damage Restoration Project
FHP          =      Fourth Highway Project
FHWA         =      Federal Highway Administration (USA)
FIDIC        =      Federation Intemationale des Ingenieurs-Conseils
GDP          =      Gross Domestic Product
GOP          =      Government of Pakistan
ICB          =      International Competitive Bidding
ICR          =      Implementation Completion Report
LCB          =      Local Competitive Bidding
MBRP         =      Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program
MIL           =     Maintenance Intervention Level
MIS                 Management Information System
MMS          =      Maintenance Management System
MOC           =     Ministry of Communications
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOR          =      Ministry of Railways
NHA                 National Highway Authority
NHB           =     National Highway Board
NLC           =     National Logistics Cell
NTRC          =     National Transport Research Centre
PC           =      Planning Commission
PC-i         =      Planning Commission, document #1
PPIB         =      Private Power and Infrastructure Board
PR            =     Pakistan Railways
PSO                 Public Service Obligation
RECO                Rail Equipment Company
RSP                 Resurfacing and Strengthening Program
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
tkm           =     tonne-kilometre
VOC           =     Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director          Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Director           Frannie Humplick
Team Leader               John Tillman
Task Team Leader          Navaid Qureshi



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ..........................................................                                                                            iv
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................                                                                 v
Introduction.                                                                                                                     v
Project Objectives ...........................................................v
Implementation  Experience and Results ..............................                              .............................v
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ........................... vii
Part I Project Implementation Assessment
A - Background ..........................................................1l
B  - Project Objectives ...........................................................I
C  - Achievement of Objectives ..........................................................2
D  - Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................................................6
E  - Project Sustainability ...........................................................7
F - Bank Performance ..........................................................8
G  - Borrower Performance ...........................................................9
H - Assessment of Outcome .........................                                                  ,                            10
I - Future Operation .........................                                                                                     12
J - Key Lessons Learned ......................... 13
Part II Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ......................... 14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................                                                                     17
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................... 18
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 19
Table 5: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................   20
Table 6: Key  Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                                22
Table 7: Studies Included  in Project ...................................................                                         24
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................................................                                                       26
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................                                                   27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                                          28
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                                         30
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ........................................ 33
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                                       34
Table  13: Bank  Resources: Missions ................................................... 35
Annexes
A. Highway mission aide-memoire
B. Railway mission aide-memoire
C. National Highway Authority's contribution to the ICR
D. Revised Economic and Financial Evaluation of Pakistan Railway
E. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 3241- PK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Sector Project in Pakistan, for
which Loan 3241-PK in the amount of US$ 184.0 million was approved on June 28, 1990 and made
effective on February 26, 1991. The project included three components: railways (US$ 105 million),
highways (US$ 77.5 million) and transport sector reform (US$ 1.5 million). The initial project
identification, preparation, appraisal, earliest supervision, and final drafting of the ICR were undertaken
as a unified project. However most of the supervision of the loan including the fieldwork for two draft
ICRs was undertaken separately for each component.
The project closed on June 30, 1998, after two 12 month extensions granted beyond the original closing
date of June 30, 1996. An amount of US$ 22,657,602.62 had been cancelled on October 31, 1996. A
further amount of US$ 11,097,674.94 had been cancelled on November 16, 1998. The final
disbursement transaction took place on January 12, 1999, when the special account balance was refunded
and the remaining undisbursed balance of US$ 9,171.92 was cancelled. A total of US$ 150,235,550.52
(82%) was disbursed from the Loan.
The project was restructured in June 1996 and loan amounts were reallocated. The railway component
was revised down to US$ 93,500,000, of which ultimately US$ 63,095,592.21 (67%) was disbursed. The
highway component of the loan was increased to US$ 89,000,000, of which US$ 87,101,053.80 (98%)
was disbursed. Only US$ 38,904.51 (3%) of the Sector Reform Component was disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by William Denning (TWUTD) from January to June, 1999, with help from Lilian
MacArthur (SASIN) and Dr. Khalid Rashid (Consultant), and was reviewed by Navaid Qureshi (SASIN),
John Tillman (SASIN) and peer reviewers Chris Hoban (SASIN), and Yash Pal Kedia (AIFTT1). It is
based on the draft ICRs prepared for each component, discussions with Bank staff, and material from the
project and correspondence files and consultants in the field.
Material for the highway component was taken from a draft ICR prepared by Hasan Masood, Consultant,
in March 1997 and April 1998. Preparation for this component of the ICR was begun during the Bank's
final highway component supervision/completion mission, in June 1997. It is based on material on the
project file, periodic management reports prepared by the borrower and several technical and end-of-
assignment reports prepared by the consultants who worked on this project. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project implementation (included as Annex
C of the ICR), and reviewing and commenting on the draft ICR.
Material for the railway component was taken from a draft ICR prepared by Jerry Pinkepank and Khalid
Rashid, Consultants, in May 1997 and June 1998. The railway component draft was prepared during and
after a supervision/completion mission in May, 1997. Presentation of the draft ICR to the Borrower took
place March 8, 1999. The Borrower was not able to contribute to preparation of the railway component
by commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower has not prepared an evaluation report



v
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 3241- PK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Transport Sector Project was an evolution of previous Bank lending operations in the sector.
The project funded sector and institutional reforms and priority maintenance work for the highway
network and railway operation. It was not simply a traditional project loan as it focussed on both
physical and institutional development objectives. There were three components to the project: highway,
railway, and sector reform.
Proiect Obiectives
2.    The objectives of the highway component were to assist in: (a) bringing the National Highway
Authority (NHA) to a size, structure and level of professional competence reflecting its responsibilities;
(b) instituting a sustainable core investment and maintenance program (CIMP) for national highways;
and (c) removing a substantial portion of the backlog of maintenance, rehabilitation, and resurfacing so
that a sustainable maintenance program could be established. These objectives were to be pursued
through: (a) technical assistance and training for the reorganization of NHB, (b) a Maintenance Backlog
Reduction Program (MBRP), and (c) a pavement Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP).
3.    The objectives of the railway component were to assist Pakistan Railways (PR) in: (a)
implementing railway restructuring and establishment of a strong business department in order to
develop commercial orientation of railway management, (b) implementing an operational improvement
program and supporting it with selective investments to enhance its effectiveness, and (c) ensuring
adequate locomotive utilization by removing the maintenance backlog. The objectives were to be
achieved by: (a) institutional development, (b) an Operational Improvement Program, and (c) a
Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program.
4.    The objective of the sector reform component was to assist GOP effectively to implement and
monitor a sector reform program. The project components were well linked to the project objectives,
relevant to the country's needs and consistent with the Bank's strategy in the transport sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The highway component achieved its objectives, reduced transport costs, and strengthened the
domestic contracting industry. The NHA was transformed to an autonomous highway authority and
restructured. As part of the institutional strengthening effort, the NHA staff were provided with training,
the financial system was improved, and standardized policies and procedures were adopted on trial basis.
These improvements in NHA experienced significant delays. Compared to the ambitious appraisal
estimate of 31 March 1991, NHA reorganization and staffing was only substantially completed in
December 1994.
6.    The GOP's Core Investment and Maintenance Program (CIMP) was regularly reviewed and
commented upon by the Bank. To address inadequate annual GOP funding for road maintenance, studies
were conducted to develop detailed off-budget arrangements for road maintenance through road user
charges and a Road Maintenance Fund managed by a public/private board. Inadequate engineering on
large rehabilitation works and in one case poor ICB contractor pre-qualification led to construction
delays and cost overruns. Unusual floods resulted in localized damages which required additional costs,
as well as a one year extension of the project. Security considerations affected the implementation of
project activities in Sindh and Balochistan. RSP contracts in Sindh could not be adequately
supervised/monitored by the consultants following an attempted kidnapping in which one of the



vi
expatriate engineers was killed. Local gangs in Balochistan interfered with the work during early stages
of contract MBRP 7005 and may have been linked to the murder of the consultant's Resident Engineer.
7.    The Bank's role in identification and preparation of the project was satisfactory. The project
focused on the GOP need to reform and strengthen the prime highway development institution and
reduce the backlog of maintenance. The project was in line with the Bank's sub-sector strategy at the
time of developing a sustainable national highway system and lowering transport costs. The Bank's role
during implementation was effective and led to successful conclusion of the project. Bank missions
closely monitored the project activities and took a firm stand on various occasions to ensure transparency
in staffing, institutional reforms, selection of MBRP/RSP sections and quality of the road improvement
works. The Bank continued its advisory role during the project which NHA and MOC greatly valued.
8.    The NHA's performance was generally satisfactory as they worked jointly with the Bank during
identification and preparation. During preparation, NHA worked closely with the consultant in putting
together the program. However, inadequate engineering for major rehabilitation contracts affected the
road improvement program and resulted in delays and cost overruns. Preference of MBRP works over
RSP due to higher Bank financing some time led to expensive solutions for relatively simple overlay
works. During implementation, GOP's performance was largely effective except for inadequate pre-
qualification on earlier rounds of RSP which led to quality issues, and non-professional administration of
ICB contracts which was in part the result of regional management of construction works. NHA's
performance in terms of complying with the covenants was generally satisfactory.
9.    The railway component of the project was directly influential in GOP's 1996 and 1997
decisions to reform PR (Open Access Policy and Privatization, respectively) , and in beginning to
implement those decisions. Training programs in modem business and management were delivered by
local and international consultants in cooperation with the railway. International consultants assisted the
Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB), in preparing Open Access Policy bidding documents, and
in providing bid evaluation advisory services. International consultants assisted PR and the Privatization
Commission in providing privatization advisory services.
10.   The physical objectives were not achieved, because GOP did not provide the complementary
budget support and because the unreformed PR prior to early 1997 was not focussed on efficient
operation. Under the Operations Improvement Program the Roller Bearings sub-component to speed up
equipment turnaround was only half complete by June 1998. To date there has been little or no overall
improvement in equipment turnaround times. The Telecommunications sub-component was dropped
when the proposal to increase capacity by rerouting trains was discarded as unneeded. The Management
Information System (MIS) sub-component was not disbursed in the expectation that freight moves would
soon be primarily unit trains and not require specialized tracking. Under the Locomotive Maintenance
Backlog Reduction Program the Recommission 46 Locomotives sub-component completed 42 units
through 1996/97. The Unit Exchange Spares sub-component procured the necessary initial inventory of
unit exchange kits. However, in contravention of a loan covenant GOP did not keep up its funding of
regular maintenance recurring spares. The Traction Motor sub-component decreased the number of
locomotives running with less than their full complement of traction motors from 154 in 1990 to 81 as of
March 31, 1997. However the overall trend of improvement conceals that the problem has been
transferred from one model of traction motor to another, more important, model. The result is that
despite 18 new locomotives, the recommissioning of 42 locomotives, reducing the number of units
needing traction motors, and discontinuing some passenger trains, the available freight locomotives
declined from 131 in 1992/93 to 104 in 1996/97.
11.   The railway component was mainly affected by GOP's failure to provide its agreed support in:
(a) locomotive spares funding, (b) tariff increases, and (c) funding through a Public Service Obligation
(PSO) to pay for uneconomic passenger trains operated at GOP request. Bank performance was
satisfactory in project identification and preparation. Appraisal was deficient. The economic analysis of
the railway sub-components used simple calculations based on very broad averages and assumptions.



vii
Analysis of the sensitivity of the financial projections or economic evaluations to changes in traffic levels
was not performed. In supervision Bank performance was deficient. With the major failure to satisfy
project covenants over a prolonged period of time, supervision missions recommended suspension of the
loan. This did not occur and the Bank did not effectively challenge PR or GOP to live up to their
commitments. Risk assessment and management by the Bank was not satisfactory. Key risks of
achieving policy reforms were not appropriately identified and managed. A degree of optimism
permeated the project design.
12.   In preparation PR' s performance was satisfactory. The project was premised on strong support
from PR and GOP for the major changes required. In light of the subsequent history of the loan, PR
overstated its capacity to support the required changes. Implementation was deficient. The physical
objectives of the locomotive maintenance backlog reduction assistance were not achieved because GOP
failed to provide PR with an adequate budget for locomotive spares, the implementation of the roller
bearings component was delayed, and the accounting study and modernization of the accounts was not
completed. For much of the loan GOP was in default of two major covenants, (1) recurrent maintenance
budget for locomotive spares, and (2) tariff increases.
13.   The GOP has preferred to use grant financing for many of the initiatives for which the sector
reform component was to provide assistance. Trucking industry studies were completed by NTRC.
USAID assisted GOP with extensive work on bulk commodity logistics. UNCTAD undertook a
Transport and Trade facilitation program with the Pakistan Shippers Council and Ministry of Planning.
Resource mobilization from road users was extensively studied by NHA with consultant assistance under
the Highway component of the project. GOP's environmental efforts were focussed on establishing
overall policies and agencies, and on toxic industrial effluents. In sector planning GOP decided to use
JICA funds for the preparation of a Transport Master Plan to assist in preparation of the Eighth Plan.
Summary of Findines, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Despite the achievements of highway and railway institutional components, the project overall is
rated unsatisfactory. The GOP remained in default of loan covenants and the physical investment
component of the Railway loan (the largest single original component) did not achieve its objectives.
This is summarized in the following table:
Overall        Railway         Highway      Sector Reform
Overall assessment      Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory  Satisfactory
Overall sustainability    Uncertain       Uncertain       Uncertain       Uncertain
15.   The overall assessment of the highway component is satisfactory. The objectives of the project
were substantially achieved. Institutional improvements were successfully carried out in NBA and are
likely to be sustainable. The backlog of maintenance was substantially reduced and the remaining
service life of the network and highway safety were significantly improved. The domestic construction
industry benefited from the road improvement works under the project. All road sections and structures
have been taken over by NHA. An Operations Plan has been prepared and is included in Annex C. Its
implementation is dependent on the effectiveness of the NHA's maintenance division and the availability
of adequate recurrent resources to carry out the maintenance works. To improve quality assurance of
maintenance operations, the NBA is now considering use of local consultants to monitor the maintenance
undertaken through contracts. Current budget arrangements are inadequate and uncertain and so
sustainability is rated uncertain. An economic evaluation using the HDM model was completed and
gives, for all LCB contracts, an average ERR of 81 % for the RSP and 76% for the minor MBRP works.
This compares well with the ERR of 51% calculated for a sample road in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR, now known as the Project Appraisal Document - PAD). For the two major MBRP contracts
awarded under ICB procedures, the revised ERR for MBRP 7004 is 54%, and for the two sections of
MBRP 7005 it is 31% and 23% respectively.



viii
16.   The overall assessment of the railway component is unsatisfactory. While the institutional
reform achieved by the end of the project in 1998 was significant, the physical objectives were not met.
The project was successful in providing enough locomotives to keep PR operational but this success is
not sustainable as GOP failed to fund spares for locomotives. GOP has announced its strategy to
privatize PR. The railway has been unbundled into three core businesses (infrastructure, passenger, and
freight), plus a residual entity, the Railway Resettlement Agency. The core businesses will be
corporatized and are expected to be privatized. A revised ERR has been calculated for the roller bearings
program as 7%, compared with the SAR calculation of 24%. A revised ERR has been calculated for the
locomotive maintenance component as 48%, compared to the SAR calculation of 27%. However the
figure by itself is misleading because the availability of the fleet decreased during the project period.
17.   The overall assessment of the sector reform component is satisfactory. Sustainability is
uncertain. In both the highway and railway sub-sectors changes are under discussion but have yet to take
on the convincing shape of true reform.
18.    The key lessons learned from the project are as follows (the paragraph numbers below refer to
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment):
• A permanently reliable source of maintenance funding is the single most important factor in
determining the success of highway or railway operations (paragraphs 11, 21, 28, 34, 35).
* Fundamental institutional reforms in the implementing agency have to be required up-front as a pre-
condition for project approval. For example, in NHA, these reforms include: effective financial
controls, streamlined processes, a defined maximum period for approving payments to consultants
and contractors, a defined maximum period for issuing completion or defect liability certificates, and
agreement to use supervisory consultants as the Engineer. Consultants acting as Engineer must have
clearly stated responsibilities, including those related to satisfying reasonable governmental audit
requirements (paragraphs 9, 17, 24, 26).
*  Highway contract administration, particularly of major ICB contracts, needs to be significantly
improved to avoid costly claims against the employer (paragraph 26). Simplified construction
administration procedures should be adopted. There is a need for a rigorous assessment of the
implementing agency's technical and contract administration capacity at the time of appraisal and if
necessary technical assistance to train the Borrower's audit staff on Bank procurement guidelines,
procedures and standard bidding documents. Local auditing procedures need to be updated to avoid
conflict with modern contract documents (paragraphs 26, 39).
* Vehicle overloading must be effectively addressed to minimize damage to the network. The recently
specified legal axle load limits should be effectively enforced. There should be Bank involvement
here, perhaps by enforcing these limits through partnership with the trucking industry once axle load
charges are included in a road fund, along with road safety initiatives (paragraph 56).
• Preparation of railway projects with an operational component must consider freight traffic issues
within the context of an overall logistics chain. Shipper's facilities, activities, and requirements must
be integrated with the line haul or common carrier operation (paragraph 19).
* There is a need to take effective action against defaults on loan covenants. Stronger leverage,
applied earlier could have salvaged more of the railway operations component, or may have allowed
more of the loan to be reallocated into productive uses (paragraphs 19, 20, 28).
* In this project, application of the Bank policy of no railway assistance (other than TA) until railway
reforms have been implemented, may not have been appropriate since the Bank would not have been
able to maintain a dialogue with MOF and reform minded parties in GOP and the private sector. As
it was, Bank was able to be a catalyst to assist GOP adopt an open access policy for private rail
freight development and on overall railway privatization policy. However this is a high risk
approach and requires a long run view of sector reform process (paragraph 57).



I
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Ln. 3241- PK)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A - Back2round
1.    The transport sector accounts for about 8% of Pakistan's GDP and is growing at 5% annually.
Bottlenecks have developed in the transport system and the level of service, which hinders the
development of a modem integrated supply chain economy. Road transport dominates the transport
sector and presently carries over 85% of the inland passenger and freight traffic over a 200,000 km of
road network. The National Highway Authority (previously National Highway Board) is responsible for
about 7,000 km of national highways. A 1989 condition survey indicated that only 50% of the network
was in maintainable condition while the other half required major rehabilitation and reconstruction.
2.    This project was the fifth intervention by the Bank in the highway sub-sector since 1964. During
the Third Highway Project (Credit 974-PAK, US$ 50 million, 1980-1986) efforts were initiated for
maintenance of the national highways. The Fourth Highway Project (FHP) (Ln. 2814-PAK, US$ 152
million, 1987-1995) went further and included a major component for development of a road
mnaintenance system and institutionalizing maintenance in NHA.
3.    Pakistan Railways is responsible for an 8,800 km railway, where 95% of the traffic is carried on
50% of the system. Shipments of petroleum, wheat, and fertilizer are the only freight traffic with a
consistent degree of profitability. The railway is a department of the GOP and is dependent on GOP
appropriations for its capital and operating expenses. This project is the twelfth railway project in
Pakistan (the ninth in the former West Pakistan). The Railway XI Project (Ln. 1278-PAK) was
completed in 1986.
B - Proiect Obiectives
4.    Highway Component. The objectives were to assist in: (a) implementing an institutional
Reform Program by bringing the National Highway Board to a size, structure and level of professional
competence reflecting its responsibilities; (b) instituting a Core Investment and Maintenance Program
(CIMP) for national highways that was both appropriate to the nation's needs and sustainable; and (c)
removing a substantial portion of the backlog of highway and bridge maintenance, rehabilitation and
resurfacing so that a normal and sustainable level of periodic and routine maintenance would be
sufficient to keep the national highway network at an adequate standard. These objectives were to be
pursued through: (a) technical assistance and training for the reorganization of NHB, (b) a Maintenance
Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP), and (c) a pavement Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP)
each with a target of 400 km of road. The objectives were relevant, in line with the country's needs, and
supported the Bank strategy in the highway sub-sector.
5.    Railway Component. The objectives were to assist PR in: (a) implementing a railway
restructuring and establishment of a strong business department in order to develop commercial
orientation of railway management, (b) implementing an operational improvement program and
supporting it with selective investments to enhance its effectiveness, and (c) ensuring adequate
locomotive utilization by removing the maintenance backlog. The objectives were to be achieved by: (a)
Institutional Development, consisting of: technical assistance, training, office technology, and
commercial orientation of PR, (b) an Operational Improvement Program, consisting of: equipping freight
wagons with roller bearings, providing additional telecommunications links, and adoption of
management information systems (As a result of these operational improvements PR were expected to:
make increased use of blocked and, where possible, unit trains on closed cycles, reduce en-route wagon
inspections, avoid crowded single track segments by use of alternate lines, and plan freight operations



2
more efficiently), and (c) Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction by the provision of spare parts to
recommission 46 locomotives, provision of locomotive unit exchange spares, and the rebuilding of
traction motors. The objectives for the railway component were clearly laid out. For PR the project was
complex and risky, because it required radical cultural and institutional change, in a mature organization,
in a tradition-bound, public sector industry.
6.    Sector Reform Component. The principal objective of this component was to assist GOP
effectively to implement and monitor a sector reform program. The objective was to be achieved by, (a)
providing office technology to monitor implementation of the sector programs, and (b) technical
assistance for undertaking studies in the Sector Action Plan and a National Transport Policy study.
C - Achievement of Obiectives
7.    Highway Component. In summary and following the format of Table 1, the achievement of
objectives (explicit or implicit) of this component was: (a) institutional development objectives were
substantially achieved, (b) physical objectives were substantially achieved, (c) public sector management
objectives were partiallv achieved, and (d) private sector development objectives were partially achieved.
8.    The objective to implement an institutional reform program was addressed by institutional
components of the project and was substantially achieved. The NHA was created by the National
Highway Act 1991, as an independent agency mandated to develop policies, initiate legislation and
mobilize resources for developing and sustaining the national highway network. The reorganization of
the NHA was carried out in January 1992 and included the creation of regional offices. It is autonomous
regarding decisions on engaging and paying contractors and consultants. The National Highway Council
under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister was established to provide policy guidance and oversight.
NHA remains dependent on (inadequate and unreliable) budgetary allocations to finance its development
and maintenance programs (see paragraph 11).
9.    Key positions were filled with capable and qualified staff after delays. Detailed job descriptions
were developed along with a transparent selection procedure. NHA staff benefited from training
programs funded under the project. These were effective in introducing modem highway engineering
concepts and practices to the organization. The project assisted NHA in developing an agency-wide
accounting system to replace the fragmented accounting system of the former NHB, which only had
individual project accounts, but no consolidated agency level accounts. Based on a review of the NHA's
financial systems and internal controls, a program of Financial System Strengthening was implemented
including improved accounting policies and computer based standard general accounting system. The
Policies and Procedures developed during the project preparation stage were revised and improved
subsequently to conform with the NHA reorganization, local regulations and practices so as to make it
easier to introduce and implement, These were adopted on a trial basis in 1996, and are being reviewed.
10.   The objective to institute a Core Investment and Maintenance Program (CIMP) for national
highways was addressed by institutional and operational components of the project and was substantially
achieved. Under the project a three-year CIMP (FY90/91 to 92/93), was implemented to maintain a
balance between maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements/capacity expansion on the national
highways. The Bank reviewed the CIMP annually with the GOP and provided comments as necessary.
The core program covering priority expenditures on the national highway system continues to be
prepared and implemented annually. and is reviewed and commented upon by the Bank. A Maintenance
Intervention Level (MEL) system developed under the FlIP was upgraded into a more comprehensive
Maintenance Management System (MMS). The MMS is described further in the NHA Operational Plan
in Annex C
11.   Funding for maintenance remains an issue. As a short-term measure, NHA agreed to divert its
annual toll revenues from a NHA general revenue account into a maintenance account. These are
estimated to be about Rs 100 million or US$ 2.7 rnillion (at Rs36.1/$1, the 1996 annual exchange rate).



3
A Road User Charges and Road Fund Study was completed by NHA using international consultants and
recommended establishment of a commercially managed Road Maintenance Fund, financed from road
user charges, which are currently being reviewed by GOP. As part of an effort to identify future
investment needs in the highway sub-sector and investigate possible sources of fund, a study (entitled
Arterial Highway Network of Pakistan to the Year 2015) identified a number of areas for resource
generation to fund future improvements and expansion of the national highway network. Details for
maintenance funding are provided Table 5a.
12.   The objective to remove a substantial portion of the backlog of highway and bridge maintenance,
rehabilitation and resurfacing was addressed by physical components of the project and was substantially
achieved. The Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP) and Resurfacing and Strengthening
Program (RSP) were based on the Maintenance Intervention Level (MEL) system for implementing a
structured and systematic program of works. The backlog of highway and bridge maintenance,
rehabilitation and resurfacing has been reduced under the project. A total of 397 km of roads have been
re-paved and strengthened under RSP, compared with 400 km estimated at appraisal. A further 301 km
of roads, 14 bridges and 16 drainage structures were reconstructed under MBRP, compared with 400 km
estimated at appraisal. The reduction of 100 km from the appraised level of work resulted from NHA's
decision to consolidate investments to upgrade 158 km of the strategic N-25 Highway (which provides
access from Central Asia to Karachi). The scope of work for this section was expanded after appraisal to
include major reconstruction and improvements to bring it to international standards.
13.   In response to severe 1992 floods, and in addition to the stand alone Flood Damage Restoration
Project (FDRP, Credit 2468-PAK), Bank management agreed to let ongoing projects in various sectors
(roads, irrigation, education, and health) with broadly similar infrastructure rehabilitation objectives be
used for reconstruction of damages caused by the floods. Project funds were used to provide some
assistance for the repair of national highways damaged by these floods. In addition to the economic re-
evaluation (see paragraph 53) a technical study carried out in 1996 showed a general improvement in
road roughness and some capacity expansion under the project, which confirms the achievement of the
objective of lowering transport costs.
14.   The domestic contracting industry also benefited from the project. Except for two major ICB
contracts (7004 & 7005), all works under MBRP and RSP were awarded to intermediate and small
national contractors following LCB procedures, significantly developing the domestic contracting
industry. The decision to use LCB was made during appraisal because of the small size, wide geographic
spread, and annual nature of the programs, which meant that the composition of the later year's programs
would not be known in advance.
15.   Railway Component. In summary and following the format of Table 1, the achievement of
objectives (explicit or implicit) of this component was: (a) institutional development objectives were
substantially achieved, (b) physical objectives were not achieved, and (c) public sector management
objectives were partially achieved.
16.   The objective to implement railway restructuring and the establishment of a strong business
department in order to develop the commercial orientation of railway management was addressed by
institutional components of the project and was ultimately substantially achieved. The project funded a
large TA component up to project closure in June 1998 which was directly influential in GOP's 1996 and
1997 decisions to reform PR (Open Access Policy and Privatization, respectively), and to begin to
implement those decisions. The organization chart was changed on January 1, 1991 to create an
Additional General Manager-Business, which was an effectiveness condition of the loan. Training
programs in modern business and management were delivered by local and international consultants in
cooperation with the railway. In addition the international consultants prepared a draft reorganization
plan for PR to operate on a commercial basis. International consultants assisted the Private Power and
Infrastructure Board (PPIB), in preparing Open Access Policy bidding documents, and in providing bid



4
evaluation advisory services. International consultants assisted PR and the Privatization Commission in
providing privatization advisory services. Finally, international consultants provided the planning and
documentation necessary for PR's unbundling in fall 1998. The Corporate Planning Division was
created to replace an existing ad hoc corporate planning group which had created Pakistan Railways' first
Corporate Plan for Fiscal Year 1990/91. It took considerable time to establish the mandate, staffing and
resource commitment to this Division. In addition, as part of the project initiatives, the GOP
mnanagement services division studied the extent of railway surplus labor, which provoked a useful
debate and controversy between MOR, PR and the Ministry of Finance, and justified the PR hiring freeze
and staff attrition policy.
17.   Only partly successful was an accounting study which was to include: (1) a separation of
accounts of the manufacturing units from the operational units, (2) development of a modern accruals
based accounting system, and (3) creation of a Public Service Obligation (PSO). The manufacturing
facilities and Property Board were established as separate units in July, 1990. Separate accounting for
these functions was to be established in conjunction with item (2), but PR decided not to proceed with
(2). On item (3) the railway, with assistance from international consultants, did its own PSO calculation
and made a claim for PSO every year. From FY 90/91 to Y 94/95 GOP made a payment for PSO,
although always less than that claimed by the railway. PR submitted claims for 95/96 and 96/97 but has
not been paid. The goal of having GOP curtail cross-subsidized services once their cost was highlighted
has been partially achieved.
18.   The objective to implement an Operational Improvement Program and supporting it with
selective investments to enhance its effectiveness, was addressed by operational and physical
components of the project. This objective was not achieved, in part because GOP did not provide the
complementary budget support and because the unreformed PR prior to early 1997 was not focussed on
efficient operation. The institutional culture did not encourage most PR staff to be innovative and seek
ways to improve operations.
19.   The Roller Bearings sub-component was to speed up equipment turnaround by reducing the
number of inspections between terminals. By June 1998 the number of wagons which have been
converted to roller bearings is 4,090 or 53% of the program of 7,785 wagons. There was discussion of
re-allocating funds intended for roller bearings to the purchase of high capacity wagons. Ultimately this
was not pursued because by the time the PR had decided that they wanted to go ahead, the loan covenants
were in serious default (so amending the loan agreement was not possible) and the expected Open Access
Policy would result in private wagons coming into service. Nevertheless a number of positive
accomplishments accompanied the process of evaluating high capacity wagons, which are likely to carry
through to a privatized operation. First, business-led thinking in two branches led a reluctant civil
engineering group to accept higher (20 tonne) axle loads. Secondly, bid specifications were developed
which liberalized what would be accepted from a Rail Equipment Operating Company (RECO, a private
operator of trains on PR lines). As roller bearing equipped wagons were to come into service, PR was to
make greater use of block and, where possible, unit trains. Apart from the slow introduction of this
equipment, there are not receivers of sufficient volume to make closed-cycle unit trains practical (aside
from five inland locations at electric power plants or bulk oil terminals). To date there has been little or
no overall improvement in equipment turnaround times.
20.   The Telecommunications sub-component was to provide telecommunications to selected sections
of existing track, in conjunction with a proposal to re-route additional goods trains on these lines for
capacity reasons, and in lieu of PR's desire to construct double track. Bank missions expressed
skepticism about PR's continued desire for double tracking. Computer simulations indicated no need for
double tracking or for any other line capacity improvements. When the proposal to reroute trains was
discarded, the rationale for including expanded teleconmmunications in the project was removed and this
sub-component was dropped. The Management Information System (MIS) sub-component was to enable
information on train and wagon movements, a passenger reservation system, and an administrative



5
information system. However, the operating data base necessary for the tracking of train and wagon
movements was deleted under the expectation that freight moves would soon be primarily unit trains and
not require specialized tracking. Ultimately, the loan closed with the MIS portion undisbursed.
21.   The objective to ensure adequate locomotive utilization by removing the maintenance backlog
was addressed by physical components of the project. This objective was not achieved, because GOP did
not provide the agreed maintenance funds. Under the Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction
Program the sub-component to Recommission 46 Locomotives completed 42 units of the 46 planned
(91 %). The Unit Exchange Spares sub-component procured the necessary initial inventory of unit
exchange kits. However, in contravention of a loan covenant GOP did not keep up its funding of regular
maintenance recurring spares (which includes, among others, keeping up the inventory for unit exchange
kits). There was a shortfall of the covenant in each year of the loan. The Traction Motors sub-
component was to replace missing traction motors. The SAR had identified 154 locomotives in 1990
running with less than their full complement of traction motors. The project had reduced the count to 81
locomotives as of March 31, 1997. However the overall trend of improvement conceals a problem. The
loan focused on the four types of motors in short supply in 1990. PR also has locomotives using other
motors, comprising a total of 153 units (28% of fleet), which are heavier duty and used for profitable
freight moves such as unit oil trains. With insufficient funding for regular maintenance on these motors
the problem has been transferred from one model of traction motor to another. The result is that despite
18 new locomotives, the recommissioning of 42 locomotives, reducing the number of units needing
traction motors, and discontinuing some passenger trains, the available freight locomotives declined from
131 in 1992/93 to 104 in 1996/97.
22.   Sector Reform Component. Sector policy objectives were partially achieved. The objective to
assist GOP to implement and monitor a sector reform program was addressed by six technical assistance
components of the project and were partially achieved. After effectiveness, GOP preferred to use grant
financing for these initiatives. (1) Trucking Industry Development. Trucking industry studies completed
by NTRC indicated that the deregulated private sector trucking industry was responsive to market
demands and was evolving towards a more diversified fleet to meet the growing needs of Pakistan's
industry and commnerce. Accordingly GOP decided to include trucking issues in overall transport and
trade facilitation matters rather than in a separate workshop. (2) Resource Mobilization From Road
Users. This was extensively studied by NHA with consultant assistance under the Highway component
of the project and has contributed to the development of the road fund proposals awaiting GOP approval.
(3) Trade Logistics. USAID assisted GOP with extensive work on bulk commodity logistics, and Port
Qasim determined that bulk foodgrain facilities were feasible and is seeking private sector participation
to establish them. PAKPRO was established by Karachi Port but it proved ineffective and GOP invited
UNCTAD to undertake a Transport and Trade facilitation program with the Pakistan Shippers Council
and Ministry of Planning (1992-94). This developed a consensus on an extensive agenda of procedural
and documentation reforms. The Bank expects shortly to negotiate a TA credit to assist in the
implementation of these reforms. (4) Environmental Aspects. GOP's environmental efforts were
preoccupied in establishing overall environmental policies and agencies, and addressing the problem of
untreated toxic industrial effluent was decided to be a higher priority than the accident risks from the
transport of hazardous cargoes. The Bank is working with GOP to improve the quality of refinery
products which would lessen the extent of automotive pollution. (5) Sector Planning. GOP decided to
use JICA funds for the preparation of a Transport Master Plan to assist in preparation of the Eighth Plan.
(6) National Transport Policy Study. The MOC following discussions with Bank missions in 1992
prepared a Transport Policy Paper which recommended that the private sector should play a much larger
role in railways, ports, national registered shipping and aviation, thus beginning the continuing process of
adoption and implementation of the privatization policy.



6
D - Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
23.   The original loan closing date of June 30, 1996 was extended twice. The first extension to June
30, 1997 was given to allow, (1) Railway: technical assistance for implementing the GOP's 1996 policy
for the development of modem rail freight services, (2) Highway: restoration of unprecedented flood
damage (June 1995) to a 160 km section of N-25 being rehabilitated under the project, and for technical
assistance for supervision and for institutional strengthening of the NHA. The second extension to June
30, 1998 was given, on the GOP's request, to continue technical assistance for implementing railway
restructuring and privatization and to enable additional studies critical to the preparation and appraisal of
the proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project.
24.   Highway Component. Although NHB was transformed into NRA in 1991, significant delays
were encountered in the reorganization and recruitment of staff, due to the political situation which led to
a change in Government in 1993. A set of "Policies and Procedures" were developed during project
preparation and were to be adopted as part of the NHA institutional reforms. This was adopted on trial
basis in 1996, but was not fully implemented. The lack of implementation adversely affected
institutional strengthening of the NHA. An NHA Code (covering basic policies) was subsequently
adopted in early 1999. The provision for training and technical assistance under the project for
reorganization was not fully utilized owing to delays in NHA reorganization and recruitment as well as
NRA's inability to bring on board four long term senior advisors through the FHWA, due to changing
Pakistan-USA political relations. The implementation of improvements in financial management systems
and financial controls through the Accounting Assistance Study in 1994 was only partly completed
during project period. Not until late 1998 did NHA make staff changes in key positions in the Finance
Wing. A new Financial Manual was adopted in early 1999 to guide operations.
25.   A major problem affecting the MBRP works was inadequate initial engineering of the two large
ICB contracts, which had been added after appraisal. Bids were invited based on standardized cross-
sections (appropriate for the smaller MBRP/RSP contracts) without detailed survey and analysis of these
specific roads. Bank supervision had advised NHA to do detailed engineering before seeking bids but
this was not done. The Bank gave its "no objection" to the bidding documents. During implementation
these deficiencies became apparent and the projects had to be re-engineered. Revisions resulted in delays
and cost over runs.
26.   Weak contract administration on the large ICB contracts resulted in unnecessary delays, claims,
and cost overruns. This was due to NHA staff not being able to apply well established FIDIC
(Federation Intemationale des Ingenieurs-Conseils) contracting principles. Local audit procedures do not
allow an FIDIC-type payment process and instead require the manual filling in and signing of a
"measurement book" by departmental staff before a contractor can be paid. This delays the payment
process and introduces another layer in the clearance. Inadequate prequalification led to the award of
contracts to inexperienced contractors, during the first two rounds of bidding for RSP works. (there were
five rounds of bids). This led to inadequate quality of works and delays in contract completion. The
contracts awarded during these early rounds of RSP did not include a provision for field testing facilities
which resulted in quality control problems. This was addressed in subsequent contracts. Only one bid
was received for each of the two ICB contracts (MBRP 7004 & 7005). This lack of response resulted in
indecision and delays in awarding the contracts. This was exacerbated by land acquisition issues and
major changes in the scope of work. The poor financial condition of the contractor for MBRP 7004
required the operation of an Escrow Account by NRA to complete the works, which delayed the project.
27.   Security considerations affected the implementation of project activities in Sindh and
Balochistan. RSP contracts in Sindh could not be adequately supervised/monitored by the consultants
following an attempted kidnapping in which one of the expatriate engineers was killed. Local gangs in
Balochistan interfered with the work during early stages of MBRP 7005 and may have been linked to the
murder of the consultant's Resident Engineer.



7
28.    Railway Component. The single greatest factor affecting this component was the complete lack
of support for PR from GOP. As made formal through effectiveness conditions and loan covenants, the
GOP undertook to provide several types of continuing support for the railway. The three major elements
were: (a) locomotive spares funding, (b) tariff increases, and (c) funding through PSO to pay for
uneconomic trains operated at GOP request. Although some PSO payments were made during the
1990/91 to 1994/95 period they have not been maintained. Locomotive spares funding has been far too
low. An initial estimate of this requirement at US$30 million per year was subsequently revised to US$
25 million per year. On average over the 1990/91 to 1996/97 period only US$15 million per year or 60%
of the US$25 million required has been made available.
29.   The SAR over-estimated the freight tonne-km base from which its projections were made. This
was the result of a catastrophic (32%) drop in freight traffic in two years, from the actual level of 8.4
billion tkm in 1988/89 (and a projected 9.1 billion tkm in 1990/91) to an actual level of 5.7 billion tkm in
1990/91. It is not clear how much of this represents a lack of available locomotives as opposed to a lack
of traffic to be moved. Over the same period the number of trains operated fell by 25% and the payload
per train by 8%. The radical decline in freight was attributed in supervision to three factors, (a) loss of
export rice traffic, down 0.5 billion tkm, (b) loss of import wheat traffic, down 0.4 billion tkm, and (c)
the deteriorating locomotive situation. There were 161 locomotives available for freight in 1988-89 and
138 in 1990/91, which further declined to 124 in 1991/92. It has since declined to 104 in 1996/97.
30.   The one-third loss of rail traffic in two years was very damaging because of the cost/density taper
in railroad costs. PR was faced with very serious cost control problems and, given the severe limnitations
on what could be done (staff reductions only by attrition; political restrictions on service reductions),
handled it very well. Staffing has been reduced from 133,300 in 1989/90 to 96,100 in 1997/98.
Inevitably, however, a major avenue for cost control was deferral of maintenance, for both track and
equipment. In retrospect this loss of a third of the goods traffic added to the overall failure of the
maintenance-related elements of the loan.
E - Proiect Sustainability
31.   Overall sustainability is summarized in the following table:
Overall       Railway       Highway    Sector Policy
Reform
Overall sustainability            Uncertain      Uncertain     Uncertain      Uncertain
32.    Highway Component. Sustainability is uncertain. There has been tremendous progress made in
the NHA and its sustainability as a productive institution is likely. However, sustainability of results and
quality in the road sub-sector is dependent on GOP for either large increases in funding or carrying out
further substantial reform to allow for new sources of funds. While there are indications that GOP is
moving in this direction, this is incomplete and remains uncertain.
33.    Sustainability has been increased through major institutional improvements in NHA. The agency
was upgraded to an autonomous authority through legislation. Improvements in policies and procedures,
accounting, and uniform construction administration procedures has made the organization more
effective and professional. Sustainability was also increased through recruitment of qualified and
experienced staff, staff training, and staff interaction with international consultants and experts. The
creation of the Private Sector Cell to attract private sector financing for construction, maintenance and
operations of the highways is positive. However, the rapid turnover of senior NHA management and
staff over the past year, if continued, could dilute some of the institutional gains achieved through the
project.



8
34.   The CIMP and annual reviews by the Bank and GOP has allowed setting priorities for
investments in an appropriate mix of new construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance. The physical
works completed under the project have been handed over to the maintenance wing for inclusion under
the annual maintenance program. However, the current institutional arrangements for financing
maintenance, relying exclusively on budgetary transfers from GOP, are inadequate and unreliable. GOP
allocations are consistently short of NHA's estimnated needs (see Tables 5a, 6a). Actual expenditures in
constant value averaged over the last three years of available data (1994/95 to 1996/97) are Rs 264
million per year compared to the preceding three year period (1991/92 to 1993/94) of Rs 334 million per
year (Table 5a), a decline of 21%. To overcome this, the NHA has submitted to GOP detailed proposals
to ensure adequate financing of priority road maintenance expenditures, independent of the budget
(establishment of a road maintenance fund financed by road user charges and managed by a
public/private representative board). These reforms will be supported under the proposed (Bank assisted)
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project.
35.   Railway Component. Sustainability overall is uncertain. By its final years, the project
contributed substartially to institutional reform in PR. The development of the Open Access Policy
(1996) with the possibility of private operation through RECOs and the unbundling of PR business units
(1998) are permanent changes in PR's approach. GOP adopted a Privatization policy in April 1997 and
preparations are proceeding. hisufficient tariff increases have kept revenues low. Operational
improvements have not been made (see Table 6b). With the failure of the GOP to fund locomotive
spares, the number of usable locomotives will continue to decline. The progress made in the one area of
substantial disbursement, for locomotive availability, is not sustainable. There is a need for private
capital to develop modem rail services which, could achieve traffic levels well beyond those currently
experienced.
36.   Sector Reform Component. Sustainability is uncertain. In both the highway and railway sub-
sectors changes are under discussion but have yet to take on the convincing shape of true reform.
F - Bank Performance
37.   Project Identification. For the Highway component project identification was satisfactory. The
initial Bank mnissions ensured that the focus of policy dialogue with the GOP remained in conformity
with the Bank's strategy for sustainable development in the highway sub-sector. The project design
included major reorganization of NHA, to ensure efficient management and effective implementation of
the policy reforms. In addition the CIMIP, with periodic intervention by the Bank, had put in place a
framework for the sustainable development of the national highways. For the Railway component
project identification was satisfactory. During preparation of the project in 1987-89, various Bank
mnissions had worked with PR and GOP to identify a medium-term investment program for the
modernization of Pakistan Railways through institutional and managerial reform.
38.   Project Preparation. For the Highway component project preparation was satisfactory. The
Bank effectively used available resources during project preparation. The reorganization of NHA was
based on a study carried out by the US Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) under funding
provided by USAID. The road construction and maintenance program carried out under the Fourth
Highway Project (FHP) going on at that time, was fully utilized for preparation of this project. For the
Railway component project preparation was satisfactory. As the loan was originally not focused on
investment projects, there was no requirement to subject the medium-term investment program of PR to
detailed feasibility studies and the program was not appraised for possible bank lending. The focus of
project preparations was on institutional, managerial, and financial restructuring of the railway in order
to develop a cormnercial approach and on improving operational efficiency. For the latter task Bank
rnissions included a railway operations specialist.



9
39.   Appraisal. For the Highway component appraisal was satisfactory. The SAR documents the
full details of the investment program and its analysis. Conservative assumptions for vehicle operating
costs and value of time savings were used in estimating project benefits. The technical review of the
project was sufficiently detailed. On the negative side, the Bank appears to have overlooked the
fragmented accounting system the NHA inherited from the former NHB. This prevented the NHA from
fulfilling its covenant obligation to provide annual audited financial statements until a program for
strengthening financial systems and controls could be implemented (FY 1993-95). For the Railway
component appraisal was deficient. The SAR provides considerable detail on the action plans that PR
was expected to undertake. On the negative side, the economic analysis of the railway sub-components
used simple calculations based on very broad averages and assumptions. Analysis of the sensitivity of
the financial projections or economic evaluations to changes in traffic levels was not performed. Limited
sensitivity analysis was done only for the productivity assumption in the roller bearings evaluation.
40.   Supervision. The SAR estimated that 25 staff weeks per year would be needed for supervision,
resulting in 150 staff weeks over the six years of the project. The actual time spent on supervision was
292 staff weeks. After the October 1992 highway mission was delayed due to flood conditions, the
highway and railway components of the loan were, in effect, treated as two projects. Supervision
missions were no longer combined. There was a reduction in visits per year per component in the later
period of the loan. However supervision discussions did take place during other Bank missions for both
the highway and railway components. For the Highway component supervision was satisfactory.
Through regular supervision missions the Bank played a proactive role in overseeing project
implementation. With the on-going FBP, missions could review both projects simultaneously. This was
appropriate as the project area and the executing agency were the same for both projects. However, this
affected the level of supervision needed by the project to a certain extent, as the large construction
contracts under the FHP required more attention for their complex contractual and technical problems.
Due to reallocation of Bank resources to appraise the Flood Damage Restoration Project (FDRP) on an
emergency basis during 1993, the mid-termn review of the project scheduled 1993 was delayed. This also
delayed the implementation of the Policies and Procedures and Financial System strengthening. The
Bank showed flexibility by agreeing to the extension of the closing date to allow NHA to undertake
rehabilitation of the 1995 flood damages on contract MBRP 7005. On the negative side, Bank
supervision had advised NHA to do detailed engineering before seeking bids for the two large ICB
contracts which had been added after appraisal, but this was not done. Despite this the Bank gave its "no
objection" to the bidding documents. For the Railway component Bank supervision was deficient. With
the major failure to satisfy project covenants over a prolonged period of time, supervision missions
recommended suspension of the loan. This did not occur and the Bank did not effectively challenge GOP
to live up to their commitments. Documentation of supervision details from 1995 onwards was
complicated by having much of the supervision discussions taking place in conjunction with other
missions and thus not being fully documented in the project file.
G - Borrower Performance
41.   Highway Component. Project Identification and Preparation Overall, NHB's performance was
satisfactory. Project identification and preparation was carried out jointly with the Bank. The
Maintenance Directorate worked closely with consultants and the Bank in identifying program needs.
On the negative side, the organizational plan was not adequately reviewed and analyzed by NHB during
preparation, leading to repeated changes and revisions during implementation. In addition, the design
standards for MBRP and RSP were not developed in significant detail to cater for the large variety of
conditions encountered on the national highway network.
42.   Implementation Although satisfactorv overall, NHB/NHA performance during the early period
of implementation was not too effective as it went through a major restructuring. As the reorganization
was completed the NHA' s performance significantly improved. In particular, the NHA' s efforts were
outstanding in successfully completing (to high quality) the two fairly difficult major MBRP contracts
that were initially poorly prepared. In one case (7004 - N5 Sahiwal-Okara) NHA had to set up an escrow



10
account to ensure contract completion, in view of serious financial problems faced by the contractor. In
the second case, (7005 - N25 Wadh-Surab) the work was a in an inaccessible and inhospitable area with
major logistical challenges. It also suffered major damage by unprecedented flooding just as the work
was approaching completion.
43.   The contractors' performance on MBRP/RSP LCB contracts improved significantly over project
duration and was satisfactory. Aside from the two major ICB contracts, 40% of RSP and 17% of MBRP
works faced completion delays. Major cost overruns were experienced on 17% of RSP and 7% of MBRP
contracts. Project consultants (prime as well as local associates) made significant contributions to the
success of the project. Though there were initial deficiencies in preparation of standard designs for the
RSP and MBRP works, particularly for the large ICB contracts, these were overcome during the
implementation phase as the improvement needs were more clearly identified. Performance of
consultants was satisfactory.
44.   Project Covenants NRA's performance in complying with the project covenants was
satisfactory. Operation NHA's performance was satisfactory, see Section I, Future Operation.
45.   Railway Component. Preparation. PR's overall performance was satisfactory. During the late
1980's the Bank had extensive discussions with PR and GOP regarding the need for comprehensive
institutional, financial, and management restructuring of the railway to permit it to operate effectively in
a competitive transport environment and to realize its potential. The resulting project was premised on
strong support from PR and GOP for the major institutional and management changes required. However
it turned out that the institutional set up, as of 1990, meant that the support was not there. Only in the
later part of the loan period, did the needed support materialize. In light of the subsequent history of the
loan, PR overstated its capacity to support the required changes.
46.   Implementation. Deficient. The physical improvements envisioned under the locomotive
maintenance backlog reduction assistance were not achieved because GOP failed to provide PR with an
adequate recurrent budget for locomotive spares, and because GOP spread out the 3 year program to 6-7
years, thus lowering its net benefit in the initial years. Late PC approval also delayed the operational
improvement items (wagons, teleconmnunications, and MIS), but changing circumstances, including
GOP's stronger support for private sector development of rail freight services, reduced the priorities for
these items. Implementation of the roller bearings component was delayed. The accounting study and
modernization of the accounts was not completed although preliminary work on this, funded under the
project, was underway in 1997/98. Tables 5b and 6b provide details on project implementation and
operation indicators.
47.   Covenant Compliance. Deficient For much of the loan GOP was in default of two major
covenants, (1) recurrent maintenance budget for locomotive spares, and (2) tariff increases. Another
important covenant, regarding PSOs comnmitments for operating uneconomic services was also generally
not met. Operation. PR's performance was deficient. By the end of the project institutional reform was
beginning, however overall PR's performance on operations over the life of the project was inadequate.
See Section I, Future Operation.
H - Assessment of Outcome
48.   Despite the achievements of highway and railway institutional components, the project overall is
rated marginally unsatisfactory. The MOR/GOP remained in default of legal/financial covenants and the
physical investment component of the Railway loan (the largest single original component) did not
achieve its objectives.
49.   The most recent supervision ratings show the project as satisfactory despite the lack of
compliance with the loan covenants (Table 13). Once the Bank had decided not to suspend the loan due



I1
to covenant non-compliance (since 1993) the covenant indicator automatically showed unsatisfactory.
Despite this covenant rating the project achievements in the highway components and the railway
institutional component were satisfactory, particularly in the last few years of the project when start-up
problems at NHA had been resolved and railway institutional reform had begun to progress.
50.   Highway Component. The overall assessment of the highway component can be rated as
satisfactory. The objectives of this component were substantially achieved. Institutional improvements
were successfully carried out and the NHA's role as an autonomous institution was established. The
NHA is now able to attract qualified and experienced staff. A modem accrual based agency-wide
accounting system has been developed and is under implementation. An NHA (Policy) Code, a Financial
Manual and a policy framework for private sector investments has been prepared and adopted. It has
embarked upon major policy initiatives to sustain the existing network through user based road
maintenance programs, it has enhanced its institutional and technical capacity to implement a major
motorway program, and it is exploring private sector financing options to meet investment needs.
51.   The maintenance backlog reduction and resurfacing and strengthening programs were successful
in improving the condition of the network and reducing transport costs. Construction quality has been
satisfactory and pavement strengths have been significantly improved. The recurrent part of the CIMP
was not sufficient, and increased maintenance funding levels are needed to arrest further deterioration of
the network. As proposed and developed by NHA staff, the MIL was improved through the project into a
comprehensive maintenance management system (MMS), which is more responsive to maintenance
needs. Maintenance program management and implementation needs to be improved. Proposals are
under consideration for more effective central programming and quality control through the use of local
consultants to monitor the maintenance undertaken through contracts.
52.   The project was completed within the original period, except for an initial one year extension to
complete the major damages due to flooding (a 1 in 380 year flood) on contract MBRP 7005. A second
one year extension was allowed to continue institutional strengthening and sector work related to the
preparation of the proposed Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. All highway component
project funds were disbursed and US$ 11.5 million was transferred from the railway component to pay
for flood damages on contract MBRP 7005.
53.   Recalculation of Economic Rate of Retur (ERR. An economic evaluation using the HDM
model was completed based on: 1996 VOCs, NHA traffic counts, and using 25% of construction cost as
salvage value. This gives, for all LCB contracts, an average ERR of 81% for the RSP and 76% for the
minor MBRP works. This compares well with the ERR of 51% calculated for a sample road in the SAR.
The high return on completion is attributed to the significant benefits in VOC savings with relatively
smaller investment under the RSP and MBRP in comparison with major improvement or reconstruction.
For the major MBRP contracts awarded under ICB procedures, the revised ERR for the 30 km Sahiwal -
Okara road section under N-5 (MBRP #7004) is 54%. For the 60 km Wadh - Khuzdar section and the 98
km Khuzdar - Surab sections on N-25 (MBRP #7005) it is 31% and 23% respectively. The lower ERR
values compared to the average for minor MBRP works is due to a much larger scope of construction,
with unit costs averaging Rs 12.42 million/km or US$ 340 thousand/km (at Rs36.1/$1, the 1996 annual
exchange rate). Table 9 and Annex C provide additional detail.
54.   Railway Component. The overall assessment of the railway component of the project is
unsatisfactory. In the broad perspective of the Pakistan transport sector and its future prospects, it may
be argued that the disbursements made under the TSP supported and preserved an operating railway in
Pakistan through a time, when for lack of government support, it might have effectively ceased operation.
The institutional reform achieved by the end of the project in 1998 was significant. In building up a
climate of change it left PR ready for the move towards a private railway which now has significant
government support. In the Operations Improvement Program the Roller Bearings sub-component was
only half achieved, although the remaining installation is going on. The MIS and Telecomnmunications



12
subcomponents were not disbursed. The Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction program was
successful in providing enough motive power to keep PR operational but this success was neutralized by
the failure of GOP locomotive spares funding and the resulting unsustainable situation for locomotive
maintenance.
55.   Recalculation of Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Details of the ERR calculations are provided
in Annex D. A revised ERR for the MIS and Telecommunications sub-components cannot be calculated
as the funds were not used. A revised ERR has been calculated for the roller bearings program as 7%
compared with the SAR calculation of 24%. The main reason for the lower return is the early purchase
of the new bearings, incurring the cost, but their very slow installation, and hence their delayed ability to
earn benefit. The locomotive related sub-components: recommission 46 locomotives, inventory of unit
exchange of spares, and traction motor repair have been put together into one figure of total additional
locomotives attributable to the project. The SAR calculation of the ERR was 27%. A revised ERR has
been calculated for this component as 48%. However the figure by itself is misleading because the
overall availability of the fleet decreased during the project period.
56.   Sector Reform Component. The overall assessment of the sector reform component can be
rated as satisfactory. The objectives of this component were substantially achieved. Studies, reviews,
and policy discussions were successfully carried out.
I - Future ODeration
57.   Highway Component. NHA has developed an Operation Plan for the assets created under the
project (Annex C). As described in Section E above, the current institutional arrangements for financing
maintenance, relying exclusively on budgetary transfers from GOP, are inadequate and unreliable.
Substantially increased maintenance funding levels are required to preserve the overall network. NHA
proposes to achieve this through the establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund financed from road user
charges. The matter is currently under GOP consideration. All RSP and MBRP works were taken over
by the NHA maintenance sections after contract completion. However, there were some delays in taking
over the Wadh-Surab section of N25 due to some outstanding contractual issues on MBRP 7005. The
road has now been open to traffic for over two years, but has started showing some signs of lack of
maintenance and pavement settlement in localized areas. This requires careful attention. The monitoring
indicators (see Tables 5a and 6a) identified for the operation plan are adequate to evaluate its
performance and are sustainable as they rely on information routinely collected. NHA is now proposing
to move towards privatization of maintenance management with a related quality assurance program
involving private highway engineering consultant services and the transport industry. On a more
permanent and long-term basis, a commercially managed Road Maintenance Fund from enhanced road
user charges and mnanaged by an independent Road Fund Board has been proposed.
58.   Railway Component. The GOP has announced its strategy to privatize PR. The railway has
been unbundled into three core businesses (infrastructure, passenger, and freight), plus a residual entity,
the Railway Resettlement Agency (RRA). The core businesses will be corporatized and are expected to
be privatized. A Railway Regulatory Authority will be established under a new regulatory framework for
the restructured private rail industry. The Taskforce on Railway Restructuring and Privatization,
comprising key members from the MOR, PR, and the PC is overseeing this process. The success of this
proposal is still uncertain as several steps remain before the privatization can go ahead. These include:
corporatization under the Company's Act; approval of a railway industry regulatory framework; labour
redundancy issues, formulation of a PSO policy for passenger services, and approval of amendments to
the Railway Act to provide for the establishment of a new regulatory framework and to permit the
transfer of PR assets to corporatized entities.
59.   Sector Reform Component. The project supervision discussions led to a consensus emerging
in Pakistan concerning the need for greater private sector participation in the transport sector. The Bank



13
is assisting in the preparation of a railway privatization project, in a project to transform Karachi Port
into a landlord port, and a user managed road fund is a key aspect of a planned future highway project.
In addition the transport focus of the project enabled the Bank to maintain a dialogue about overall
transport logistics and facilitation matters with the Pakistan Shippers Council (representatives of the
private users of the transport system) and not be limited to sub-sector transport suppliers such as PR and
NHA. This has led to preparation of a TA credit to assist the implementation of the transport and trade
facilitation reform agenda and to strengthen the concerned public/private partnership in this area.
J - Key Lessons Learned
60.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
*  A permanently reliable source of maintenance funding is the single most important factor in
determining the success of highway or railway operations (paragraphs 11, 21, 28, 34, 35).
*  Fundamental institutional reforms in the implementing agency have to be required up-front as a pre-
condition for project approval. For example, in NHA, these reforms include: effective financial
controls, streamlined processes, a defined maximum period for approving payments to consultants
and contractors, a defined maximum period for issuing completion or defect liability certificates, and
agreement to use supervisory consultants as the Engineer. Consultants acting as Engineer must have
clearly stated responsibilities, including those related to satisfying reasonable governmental audit
requirements (paragraphs 9, 17, 24, 26).
*  Highway contract administration, particularly of major ICB contracts, needs to be significantly
improved to avoid costly claims against the employer (paragraph 26). Simplified construction
administration procedures should be adopted. There is a need for a rigorous assessment of the
implementing agency's technical and contract administration capacity at the time of appraisal and if
necessary technical assistance to train the Borrower's audit staff on Bank procurement guidelines,
procedures and standard bidding documents. Local auditing procedures need to be updated to avoid
conflict with modern contract documents (paragraphs 26, 39).
-  Vehicle overloading must be effectively addressed to minimize damage to the network. The recently
specified legal axle load limits should be effectively enforced. There should be Bank involvement
here, perhaps by enforcing these limits through partnership with the trucking industry once axle load
charges are included in a road fund, along with road safety initiatives (paragraph 56).
*  Preparation of railway projects with an operational component must consider freight traffic issues
within the context of an overall logistics chain. Shipper's facilities, activities, and requirements must
be integrated with the line haul or common carrier operation (paragraph 19).
*  There is a need to take effective action against defaults on loan covenants. Stronger leverage,
applied earlier could have salvaged more of the railway operations component, or may have allowed
more of the loan to be reallocated into productive uses (paragraphs 19, 20, 28).
*  In this project, application of the Bank policy of no railway assistance (other than TA) until railway
reforms have been implemented, may not have been appropriate since the Bank would not have been
able to maintain a dialogue with MOF and reform minded parties in GOP and the private sector. As
it was, Bank was able to be a catalyst to assist GOP adopt an open access policy for private rail
freight development and on overall railway privatization policy. However this is a high risk
approach and requires a long run view of sector reform process (paragraph 57).



14
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table la: Summary of Assessments (Overall Loan)
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      E               E                i:i
Sector Policies                     E                                E                 El
Financial Objectives                 a               V               E                  E
Institutional Development            I              E                E                 E
Physical Objectives                 I                                 a                 E
Poverty Reduction                     l               l              El
Gender Issues                       EEl                              El
Other Social Objectives             E               E                El
Environmental Objectives                                             E ]                ,
Public Sector Management            E                                E                 []
Private Sector Development          E                                E                 El
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      El                                                 []
Preparation Assistance              E                                                   E/
Appraisal                           E                                                   El
Supervision                         E                                                   El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                      Each Implementing Agency is rated individually on the following
Covenant Compliance                                 component specific tables.
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
a               El               E/ 



15
Table lb: Summary of Assessments (Highway Component only)
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                       U               U                U
Sector Policies                      U               U                                   ,
Financial Objectives                 U               U                U 
Institutional Development            V               U                U                 U
Physical Objectives                  /               U                                  U
Poverty Reduction                    U               U                U
Gender Issues                        U               U                U
Other Social Objectives              U               U                U
Environmental Objectives             U                                 U
Public Sector Management             U                                 U                 U
Private Sector Development           U                                 U                El
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
rIighly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                       U                                                  U
Preparation Assistance               U                        ,
Appraisal                           E l
Supervision                          U                        V                         U
HighlY
D. Borrower Performance: Highway        Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                          U                                                  U
Implementation                      i:                                                  U 
Covenant Compliance                  U                        V                          l
Operation (if applicable)            U                                                  U
Highly..                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
U1VI                             U-                U



16
Table Ic: Summary of Assessments (Railway Component only)
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                       E                Ea
Sector Policies                      E               E                El
Financial Objectives                  ]              E                El
Institutional Development                            I                U                 El
Physical Objectives                  E               E                 ,                E
Poverty Reduction                    E               E                E
Gender Issues                        Cl              E                El
Other Social Objectives              E               El               El
Environmental Objectives             El              E                E
Public Sector Management             E                                E                 El
Private Sector Development          I                E                El
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikelv                  Uncertain
E]                       El 
Hlighly
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      E                                                   Ea
Preparation Assistance              El 
Appraisal                           E                        El
Supervision                         El                         l                        V
D. Borrower Performance: Railway        Satisfactorv          Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                         E                                                   E
Implementation                      E                        E
Covenant Compliance                 E                        El
Operation (if applicable)           E                        E
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El              El                                 El



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose               Year of          Status
l        .                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Approval
Preceding Operations
1. First Highway     Construction of new 142 km    1964          Completed
Project (Cr. 54-PAK)    Karachi-Hyderabad section of
N-5 highway.                                              ll
2. Second Highway    Reconstruction of Sahiwal-    1968          Canceled due to
Project (Ln. 578-PAK)  Lahore and Lahore-Sargodha-               very high bids
Mianwali sections (270 kin) of
N-5.
3. Third Highway     Rehabilitation of three major   1980        Completed
Project (Cr. 974-PAK)   sections (269 km) of N-5, and
improvement of a provincial
road (29 km) in NWFP.
4. Fourth Highway    Rehabilitation and          1987            Completed
Project (Ln. 2814-PAK) reconstruction of 650 km of N-
5, develop NHA capacity for
maintenance, improve traffic
safety, and mobilize revenues
for road maintenance.                                     ll
5. Flood Damage      Repairs, restoration and    1993            Completed
Restoration Project (Cr. reconstruction of roads, cross
2468-PAK) - Road     drainage structures and
Component            bridges damaged by 1992
flood.                                                     l
6. Karachi Port IV                               1974            Completed
Project (Cr. 492-PAK)                                                            l
7. Karachi Port                                  1991            Completed
Modernization Project
(Ln. 3335-PAK)
8. Railway IX Project                            1969            Completed
(Ln. 621-PAK)
9. Railway X Project                             1977            Completed
(Ln. 1372-PAK, Cr.
684-PAK)                                                                        X
10. Railway XI Project                           1982            Completed
(Ln. 1278-PAK)        _                                                          l
Following Operations                                                             l
1. Highway                                       Proposed
Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project
(PK-PE-10556)                                                                    l
2. Karachi Port                                  Proposed
Privatization &
Development Project
(JPN-2929-PAK)                                                                  I
3. Pakistan Railways                             Proposed
Restructuring and
Privatization Program
(PK-PE-60053)                                                                   l



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         |   Date Planned           Date Actual/
l____________________________________________ l                [    Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                      February 9, 1990
Preparation
Appraisal                                   February 21, 1990    February 21, 1990
Negotiations                                May 25, 1990        May 29, 1990
Board Presentation                          June 28, 1990       June 28, 1990
Signing                                                         July 27, 1990
Effectiveness                                                   February 26, 1991
Mid-term review - railway component         October 1992        October 1992
Mid-term review - highway component         October 1992        February 1993
Project Completion                          June 30, 1996       June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                                June 30, 1996       June 30, 1998



19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal      Appraisal    Formally       Actual     Actual as %    Actual as %
f Year             Estimate     Revised                  of Estimate   of Revised
FY91 (1990/91)      7.40                      0.00          0                    l
FY92 (1991/92)     33.10                     31.86          96                   l
FY93 (1992/93)     71.80                     47.25          66
FY94 (1993/94)     106.70                    76.88          72
FY95 (1994/95)     149.00         --         108.73         73            --
FY96 (1995/96)     184.00       126.47       126.45         69           100
FY97 (1996/97)       --         141.48       140.65         76           99
FY98 (1997/98)                  161.34       148.72         81           92
FY99 (1998/99)                               150.24         82           93
Date of final disbursement: November 16, 1998



20
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Highway Component only)
SAR Estimated                     Actual
1. Priority Improvement Programs
a) Maintenance Backlog             400 km                 301 km
Reduction MBRP (km)                                                                  l
b) Resurfacing & Strengthening     400 km                  397 km
RSP (km)
c) Total Expenditure (Rs million)  2,968                    n/a
2. Recurrent Maintenance
a) GOP Funding (Rs million)     SAR estimated    NHA demand       Actual        Actual
Need, based on Rs   based on    Expenditures   Expenditures
300 million constant   estimated    (Current Rs)  (Constant Rs)
expenditure        needs
1989/90                                     474          269
1990/91                    300              600           281           281
1991/92                    323              795          378            346
1992/93                    345              930          410            345
1993/94                                    1,097         430            310
1994/95                                    1,317         452            279
1995/96                                                  457            253
1996/97                                                   522           260
b) Network Condition based on                        1989          1994
MIL Score                                                                            l
% Routine Maintenance                            48 %           51 %
% Periodic Maintenance                            31 %          30% %
% Reconstruction                               21 %          19 %
c) Number of qualified                               1988          1992
contractors
81           1,310
3. Recurrent Maintenance (GOP     (US$ million)    (US$ million)  (US$ million)  (US$ million)
funding) shown as US$ million
Period      Exchange rate
1989/90         21.44                              22.1          12.5
1990/91         22.41              13.4            26.8          12.5           12.5
1991/92         24.84              13.0            32.0          15.2           14.0
1992/93         25.94              13.3            35.9          15.8           13.3
1993/94         30.12                              36.4          14.3           10.3
1994/95         30.85                              42.7          14.7           9.0
1995/96         33.53                                            13.6           7.5
1996/97         38.96                                             13.4          6.7



21
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Railway Component only)
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR         SAR Estimate             Actual
1990/91    1996/97    1990/91   1996/97
PR Financial Performance (all in Rs billion)
Total Operating Revenue                     7.61      14.78       6.77      9.80
Including Public Service Obligation of    1.28       1.60       1.00      0.00
Total Working Expense                       6.61       9.93       6.76     11.79
Depreciation Reserve Fund                   1.03       1.92      0.99       0.99
Net Revenue                                -0.03       2.92      -0.98     -2.98
Interest Expense                            0.53       1.12      0.63       2.31
Improvement Reserve Fund                    0.12       0.25      0.13       0.06
Net Income                                 -0.69       1.55      -1.74     -5.35
PR Operating Performance                                                              l
Passenger km (million)                      21.1       25.5       20.0      19.1
Freight (billion tkm)                       9.1        10.8       5.7       4.6



22
Table 6a: Key Indicators for Project Operation (Highway Component only)
I. Key operation indicators in SAR      SAR                     Actual (1998)
1. Average Road Condition for overall          Avg ADT   all Cracks   Rutting    Roughness
NHA network                                                (%)        (mm)         (IRI)
Highway N-5 (existing)                N/A       6,642        37         8.3         6.0
Iighway N-5 (Additional carrigeway)    _        8,374        19         8.2         3.3
Highway N-25                                    3,387        28         1.9         6.4
IHighway N-35                                   2,336        27         3.2         8.5
l Highway N-40                                   758         20         1.0         6.7
IEgway N-50                            _         681         21         2.3         6.6
Highway N-55                                    2,777        20         1.8         4.8
_       _Highway N-65                             3,188        31         2.0         6.8
_      _Highway N-70                              3,290        38         4.6         8.6
2. Annual Recurrent Maintenance                   NHA Demand             GOP Allocation
Funding                                           (Rs million)           (Rs million)
1995/96                                  1,554                   457
1996/97                                  1,760                   522
1997/98                                 2,010                    600
1998/99                .                2,200                    605



23
Table 6b: Key Indicators for Project Operation (Railway Component only)
I. Key operation indicators in SAR             SAR                Current status
Estimate            Cretsau
Railway Action Plan (SAR, Annex 2.3)
All Karachi-Lahore freights use only 3000 hp  Yes     Only partial
locomotives
Cancel 90 poorly used passenger trains        Yes     Yes
Block loading and unloading of oil trains     Yes     Expected to start in April 1999 at
Pipri. Original plan for Dec 96, got
delayed due to PSO.
Lengthen wheat terminal sidings               Yes     No
Unit trains for cement, fertilizer, wheat &   Yes     Only for fertilizer, cement has dropped
containers                                            due to problems with Zealpak cement
factory.
Operate 72 car freight trains                 Yes     Only 60 - 65 being used.
Scrap over aged wagons                       5,000    Ban on scrap by GOP. About 3000
scrapped and about 2000 stand
condemned but not scrapped.
Close redundant marshalling yards, incl.      Yes     No.
Chaklala
Operating Improvement Program
(SAR, Annex 2.8)
Wagon turnaround time (days)                   13      16.8 days in 1997-98. (max 18.6 in
1990-91, min 15.1 in 1993-94)
Freight Locomotive utilization (kmnloco/day)  400     276 based on locos online in 96-97
337 based on locos in use in 96-97
Separate freight and passenger corridors  I   Yes     No
Average speed of freight trains (kn/hr)       26       19.9 in 1996-97
Freight traffic capacity, annual growth rate  2% pa    91-92         4.4%
92-93         3.7%
93-94         -3.9%
94-95         -4.7%
95-96        -10.3%
96-97         -9.2%
(Based on annual tonne-km)
Passenger capacity, annual growth rate       2% pa    91-92         -9.0%
92-93        -5.9%
93-94        -4.1%
94-95         7.1%
95-96         7.7%
96-97         1.1%
97-98        -1.8%
(Based on annual passenger-km)



24
Table 7a: Studies Included in Project (Highway Component only)
Study        Purpose as defined at       Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/redefined
1. Arterial      To provide a vision of    Completed      Provides a long term (20
Highway Network  the highway network    through M/S Haas  year) highway investment
Study            requirements through    Consult          strategy and plan
___ _ vyear 2015
2. Accounting    (1) To upgrade NHA      Phase- 1          Unified Chart of Accounts
Assistance Study   accounting practices  Completed         and Modem Computer based
based on modem        through Local      Accounting System
computerized accrual   Chartered         developed and implemented
based accounting       Accountant Firm.   in Islamabad and Lahore.
procedures and prepare   Phase - 2 Deferred  Commercially audited
agency-wide financial                    financial statements
statements; (2) to                       prepared for 1995/96.
improve financial
controls, budgeting and
management information
systems
3. N-5           To study the technical    Completed (June   Results of Study indicated
Privatization and   and financial feasibility   1998) through M/s  that at present traffic levels
Engineering pre-   of rehabilitating/    LBI               N-5 rehabilitation and
feasibility Study    upgrading and                         upgrading cannot be carried
maintaining sections of                  out through PS concessions
the Highway N-5 though                   without significant Govt.
Private Sector                          financial support.
Concessions, based on
tolls.
4. Road User     To establish the structure  Completed (June   A rationalized structure of
Charge Study     and level of road user  1998) through    road user charges proposed
charges needed to      MIS WSA           (based primarily on a fuel
finance national and                     levy plus axle load charges).
provincial level road                    Endorsed by NHA.
sector investments and                   Currently under review by
maintenance on a                         GOP.
sustainable basis.                                                I
5. Road Fund     To propose the legal and  Completed (June   Detailed structure and draft
Study            institutional framework   1998) through  legislation proposed.
for establishing and   MIS WSA           Endorsed by NHA.
operating a dedicated                    Currently under review by
Road Maintenance Fund                    GOP.
managed by a
Representative
Public/Private Board
6. HDM based     To identify a prioritized   Completed (May   A six year Rs. 36 billion
NHA network      medium term             1998) with Bank    prioritized maintenance
level maintenance  maintenance plan to   Staff assistance    improvement plan identified.
prioritization   improve the condition of                  The first phase to be taken
Study            the NHA network.                          up under the proposed
Highway Rehab Project.



25
Table 7b: Studies Included in Project (Railway Component only)
Study        Purpose as Defined at         Status              Impact of Study
AppraisallRedefined
1. Institutional    Instill a business-led  Completed         "A sizeable majority of
Development/    attitude among officers of                    Railway officers now feel that
Management       all departments                              they have to work as
Training Phase I                                              businessmen and not just as
& II                                                          railway officers". Corporate
Plan 1995,/96 p. 47
2. Institutional  Prepare an organization    Completed        Not itself adopted but it
Development/     plan for a business                          provided a starting point for the
Management       oriented railway                             Unbundling Study (#8 below)
Training Phase Im
3. Locomotive    Improve shop practices    Completed          Despite the finding that
Rebuild Study    and stores management,                       rebuilding was not the
evaluate relative merit of                   preferred approach, bilateral
heavy rebuild versus new                     funding permitted PR to
purchase                                     undertake a rebuild program.
4. Container     Improve Dry Port        Completed            Recommendations disregarded
Study            methods and utilization of                   due to ineffective management
container equipment                          of Dry Ports and of equipment
turns by railway
5. Accounting    Align accounts with     Not carried out. Lack   This work was later begun in a
Study            business-led organization   of interest by railway.  preliminary way by the
of accounts branch                           Unbundling Study (#8 below).
6. Railway       Produce more business   Not carried out. Lack
Manufacturing    like "make or buy"      of interest by railway.
Study            choices by railway
7. Property      Realize value of Railway   Not carnied out due to
Development      real estate             land title issues
Study
8. Unbundling    Assist Pakistan Railways   Completed June 1998  Used to guide PR's
and                                                           unbundling. Resulted in a set
Corporatisation                                               of very detailed analytic
Study                                                         reports (45 volumes).
9. Privatization    Assist Privatization  Completed January    Used by PC to guide
Business Plans:    Commission (PC)        1998                privatization discussion.
Freight Unit,
Passenger Unit,
and Infrastructure
Services Unit



26
Table 8a: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                         Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign        Total
Cost      Costi               Cost      Cost  I
I. Highway Component
1. MBRP                     34.8      34.8      69.5      28.6      71.9       100.5
2. RSP                      16.7      25.1      41.9      14.4       7.3        21.7
3. TA, Training &            5.3       2.9       8.2       0.0      }          I
Supervision                                                         }7.9       17.9
4. Advisers & Equipment      0.0       2.5       2.5       0.0      }          }
5. Price Contingencies       8.2       7.8      16.0
Sub-Total Highway           65.0      73.1     138.1      43.0      87.1       130.1
II. Railway Component
1. Institutional             2.8       4.5       7.3      0.7*       4.9         5.6
Development and Studies
2. RollerBearings           14.3      21.5      35.8      11.6      10.0        21.6
3. Signal and                3.0       4.0       7.0           not disbursed
Communication
4. MIS                       1.4       5.6       7.0           not disbursed
5. Locomotive Spares        28.9      53.5      82.4      25.4      48.2        73.6
Recommission 46
locomotives              5.3      10.9      16.3                                l
unit exchange           10.3      23.2      33.5                                l
traction motors         10.8      15.4      26.2                                l
Maintenance equip.       2.4       4.0       6.4                                 l
6. Physical                  2.5       4.5       7.0
Contingencies
7. Price Contingencies       6.3       8.3      14.6                                l
Sub-Total Railway           59.2     101.9     161.1      37.7      63.1       100.8
III. Sector Reforms          0.2       1.3       1.5       0.0      0.04        0.04
Program                                                                             l
TOTAL          [   124.41    176.3 ]    300.7      80.7     150.2 |     230.9]
Notes: Exchange rate at Appraisal: US$ 1.00 = Pak Rs 21.5 (March 1990)
Sources for local costs in actual/latest estimate are: (a) TSP Final Report, June 1997, NHA. Annex VII,
(exchange rate used: US$ 1.00 = Pak Rs 45.2, 30 June, 1997), and (b) *provides partial data only, other
data from consultants in field (Dr. Rashid) using exchange rate of each year of expenditure.



27
Table 8b: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                   Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  CForeign [   Total Local Cost   Foreign       Total
Cost i    Cost l                           Cost
IIBRD                   7.7      176.3     184.0        0.0      150.2     150.2
GOP Contribution      116.7        0.0     116.7       80.7        0.0      80.71
TOTAL        [    124.4      176.3    300.7        80.7      150.2    230.9
N.B. See notes to previous table.



28
Table 9a: Economic Costs and Benefits (Highway Component only)
Contract Number   Highway Segment   SAR EIRR   Re-estimated  Re-estimated  ERR with Benefits
EIRR       B/C Ratio      Reduced 20%
LCB Contracts
MBRP                                 51 %        76.4 %         4.36
RSP                                  51 %         81.2 %        4.19              -
ICB Contracts                                                                                l
MBRP 7004 &   Sahiwal - Okara          *         54.1 %         17.21          49.3 %
7004A                                                                                       ll
MBRP 7005-I  Wadh - Khuzdar                      31.1 %         4.12           27.4 %
MBRP 7005-11  Khuzdar - Surab          *         23.4 %         2.45           20.2 %
NOTES:
* - not evaluated at appraisal
1. Economic analysis of LCB contracts was carried out by the Borrower. These were selectively tested
using HDMII and found to be on the conservative side.
2. EDMIII has been used for economic analysis of ICB contracts. All traffic figures are drawn from data
published by NTRC.
3. Construction costs are based on the Borrower's Final Report
4. Sensitivity of the re-estimated EIRR is tested by reducing benefits by 20% to account for traffic
uncertainty.



29
Table 9b: Economic Costs And Benefits (Railway Component only)
Item            SAR EIRR       Re-estimated
EIRR
Roller Bearings             24 %             7 %
Locomotive Spares           27 %            48 %
Telecommunications          23 %         Not required
MIS                         18 %         Not required
NOTES:
1. The Telecommunications, MIS, and Additional Wagons sub-components were not disbursed, so a
recalculation of ERR is not possible or required.
2. Although the Locomotive Spares sub-component shows a higher ERR than at appraisal, it should be
noted that data availability has limited the calculation to a system-wide average revenue per locomotive
basis. Overall locomotive availability has declined during the course of the project.
3. See Annex D for detailed calculations.



30
Table 10a: Status of Legal Covenants (Highway Component)
Agreement       Section    Covenant   Status     Original      Revised               Description of Covenant                            Comments
type               Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date                                                                                              l
LA               3.01(a)     4, 10       C                                   Provide promptly as needed the funds and other  The level of ADP funding provided has
32410                                                                        resources required for the project.           generally been adequate for the project
implementation.
3.01(b)    10          CD                                  Carry out the project in accordance with the  Generally complied with.
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5.
4.01       01          CD        12/31/95                  Provide the Bank annually NHA's audited       95/96 ProjectVSOE and special account audits
accounts, not later then six months after the end    received in June 97 after a 6 month delay.
of the fiscal year (end June).               95/96 consolidated agency accounts prepared.
Commercial audit completed.
6.01       03          C                                   Effectiveness conditions.                     Conditions met and loan made effective in
February 1991.
Schedule   04          C        06/30/96                   For civil works contracts awarded by NHB after  The level of PSDP funding has generally been
1, Para. 3                                                 June 30, 1991, a condition of disbursement is that   adequate to ensure uninterrupted
GOP has provided satisfactory funds required to    implementation
carry out program during such fiscal year.                                              l
Schedule    1          C        03/31/96                   GOP and Bank to review annually by March 31,    NHA's draft ADP reviewed annually as part of
5, A-2                                                     beginning in 1991 the implementation of the   the PSDP review. Recommendations provided
Project, the CIMP and the funding requirements    on core investment plan. Annual maintenance
for the following fiscal year.                funding continues to fall short of needs, on
account of overall resource constraints.
Schedule   02          C                                   (a) GOP to continue practice of transferring to  GOP now has an agreement with IMF which
5, A-3                                                     consumers all increases in prices of petroleum  links domestic fuel prices to international
products.                                    market prices.
Schedule   02          CD                                  NHB to prepare annually for Ministry of       NHA has levied tolls on several bridges and the
5,. A-3                                                    Finance/Govemment proposals to enhance        Lahore-Islamabad motorway. The April 97
mobilization of resources for road users.    NHA country workshop on Road Maintenance,
co-sponsored by MOF, recommended
establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund
financed from road user charges and managed
by a joint pubhc/private Road Fund Board.
NHA has completed a Road User Charge and
Road Fund Study that developed detailed
proposals. Currently under review by GOP.
LA,        05          CD       09/30/90                   NHB to be reorganized in accordance with      NHB turned into an autonomous NHA in early
Section 8                                                  principles agreed at negotiations, and principals to   1991. Revised organization structure, service
be formally approved by GOP by September 30,    rules and delegation of financial powers
1990.                                        approved by NH Council in early 1995. Staff
now regularized. New Policies and Procedures
adopted in Februamy 1996 on pilot basis. Further
work in progress.
LA          10         C                                   NHA to select the road sections to be rehabilitated   Rehabilitation and strengthening done as
Section                                                    or strengthened annually in accordance with   agreed. NHA's annual maintenance program,
D-l                                                        technical and economic criteria satisfactory to the    based on the MtL system up to 1995, now
Bank, and to carry out its maintenance programs    upgraded into a more advanced MMS.
in accordance with the MIL system.           Hlowever, annual maintenance funding remains
far short of the network requirements.



31
KEY:
Covenant Type:
I= Accounts/audits complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generated from beneficiaries
3    Flow and utility of project funds
4    Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project/executing agency
6    Environmental covenants
7    Involuntary resettlement
8    Indigenous people
9    Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Project implementation not otherwise covered by 1-9
1 l= Sectorallcross-sectoral budget/allocations
12 = Sectoral/cross-sectoral policy regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Compliance after delay
CP = Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



32
Table 10b: Status of Legal Covenants (Railway Component)
Agreement       Section    Covenant   Status     Original      Revised               Description of Covenant                            Comments
Type               Fulfillment   Fulfillment
l__________                          Date         Date
3.03       4           NC                                  Recurrent Budget for Locomotive               This covenant was in default throughout the
Maintenance Spares The Borrower shall enable   project with amounts ranging from 47.64
PR to acquire, in a timely manner, the foreign  percent to 75.17 percent of the $25 million
exchange required for the procurement of spare  determined to be needed being actually
parts needed for the proper operation and    fumished. In addition, the intent of the covenant
maintenance of its locomotives..             was further frustrated by the failure to allocate
rupee funds to move the material off the docks
in Karachi after the foreign exchange was spent
4.01       1           CD                                  Audited Accounts PR annually to provide       Although the accounts were eventually
audited accounts 6 months after the end of the  furnished each year, they were generally months
Fiscal Year (June 30).                       late.
4.03       2           NC                                  Financial Performance The Borrower, the Bank   The tariffs of Railway have not been raised
and PR shall review, during the month of March  equal to inflation and deficits have increased
each year, the levels of PR's tariffs with a view to    over the term of the loan. The Railway
agreeing on the annual adjustments required to  contended it could not raise its tariffs more than
such tariffs so as to ensure: (a) that the rate of such  it did for competitive reasons, due to incursions
adjustments shall be above the inflation rate in  of road transport into its market share
Pakistan; (b) so that the operating deficits of PR
shall be progressively reduced; and (c) that PR
shall be able, not later than FY 1994-95, to finance
L______________                                                  .a reasonable portion of its capital expenditures.
5.02       4           C                                   Material changes in project Until the         Changes were substantial but all affirmative
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall  changes were made in consultation with the
ensure that (a) any material changes in the  Bank. Negative changes (decisions not to spend
components of the Program, or (b) increases in  money, or delay spending, were made over
expenditures under the Program by more than the   Bank objection).
equivalent of $5,000,000 above current
expenditures estimates for any given fiscal year,
shall be made only after consultation with the
Bank.



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable in this project



34
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Planned                Revised                 Actual
Weeks   US$ (000's)   Weeks   US$ (000's)   Weeks   US$ (000's)
Preparation to Appraisal                                                            247.3        462.9
Appraisal - Board                                                                    47.4        111.5
Negotiations through Board Approval                                                   8.2          19.6
Supervision                         150*                                            292.4        598.4
Completion                                                                           22.3         56.4
TOTAL                                                       617.6       1248.8
* - Based on SAR estimate (paragraph 3.42, page 28) of 25 staff weeks per year, times the projected six
year life of the project.



35
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (All Components, Highway plus Railway)
Performance Rating
Stage of          Component         Month/         Number    Days in      Specialized Skills    Implementation    Development   Covenants    Types of                Remarks
Project Cycle       Addressed          Year        of Persons    Field        Represented            Status        Objectives                   Problers
Through Appraisal           A          February 1985        2          15      EC
A         March 1986           4          18      EC
A         August 1986          2           3       FA, PE
A         January 1987         1          14       RE
A         April 1988           3          18       EC, RS
A         July 1988            2           5       EC, RS
A         December             7          20       EC, RS, LOC,
1988                                    WCS, TS, MIS
A         May 1989             6          18       EC, RS, PA, HE,
.                                      _                                        PE, PO
A         March 1989           1           3       EC
A         October 1989         6          15       EC, RS, HE, PE
Appraisal through           A          February-March       9          16      EC, RS, HS, PE, HE
Board Approval                         1990
Board Approval              A          September-           4          30      EC (tm), RS, HE,             I               I              I            I                   AM #1
through Effectiveness                  October 1990                             PA
Supervision                 A          April-May 1991       6          40      EC (tin), RS (2),            2               2              2            I                   AM #2
PA, FA, HE
A         November-            6          20       EC (tm), PA, FA,            2               2              3          1, F, C               AM #3
December 1991                           HA, HE, PO
A         April-May 1992       5          30       EC (tm), RS, PS,            2                2             3         1, P, F, T,            AM #4
HE (2)                                                                  C
TS        June-July 1992        5          11      EC, RS, TS, A              not              not            not                               AM #5
______________________available            available     available                Not in OIS
R         October-             6                   EC(ml), RS (2),            not              not           not          1, F     Mid-Term Review
November 1992                           FA,TS,PS                 available        available     available                Railway Component, AM #6,
590 with AM# 7
H         January-             4           10      EC, PA, HE (2)              2                1             2          1, P, T   Mid-Tern Review
Febnuary 1993                                                                                        _Highway Component, AM #7
R         October 1993         1          13       RS                          2               2              3          1, F, C               AM #8
A         December             5           3       RE, PA, HE, RS                                                         1, F
1993                                  1
H         February 1994        3           18      PA, EC, HS                  2                                         1, P, F              No BTO
R         May-June 1994        3           13      EC, RS, FA                  S               S              3            C                  AM#10
Told in default on two covenants
H         December             3           9       ENG, HE (2)                 S               S              3           1, T       Labelled as AM #10, really is
1994                                                                                                                                AM#1I
R         March-April          3           12      FA, EC, RS                  S                                          1 3  I,F  Labelled as AM #11, really is
1995            __AM #12



36
H        October-            2          8     HE (2)                    S               S            3         F, 1, P    Labelled as AM #11, really is
November                                                                                                                 AM #13
1995                                                                                                _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
R        March-April         3         20     EC, RS, FA                S               S            3          L F          No label given, AM #14
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _   ~~~~1996_                                                                                               _
H        July 1996          4          11      EC, HE (2), PS           S               S            3          1, F      Labelled as AM #12, really is
Completion                R         May 1997           2          14     ICR, FA                                                           L,F      Labelled as AM #13 draft; really
is AM #16. No BTO
Completion                H         June 1997          6          6      HE (2), DISB, EC,         S              S            U           I,F      labelled as AM #13, really is
PROC, ICR                                                                           AM #17
Supervision of            H         May 1998           4                 HE,PS,FA
extension                                                                       _
Supervision of            R         June 1998          2
extension
KEY
Staff Skills (column six):                                                                       Tyves of Problems (column ten)
A  = Aviation Specialist                            PA = Project Adviser                         C = Covenant
EC = Economist                                      PE =Port Engineer                            F =Financial
ENG = Engineer                                      PO = Project Officer                         I = Institutional
RS = Railway Specialist                             PROC = Procurement Specialist                P = Physical
RE = Railway Engineer                               PS = Privatization Specialist                T = Technical
RM   Railway Marketing Specialist                   TS = Trucking Specialist
HE = Highway Engineer                               FA = Financial Analyst
HA = Highway Adviser                                DISB = Disbursement Specialist
HS = Highway Specialist                             MIS = MIS Expert
WCS = Wagon and Coach Specialist                    ICR = ICR Consultant
LOC = Locomotive Expert



ANNEX A
Highway Mission Aide-Memoire



June.20, 1997
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT - (LOAN 3241-PAK)
(Highway Component Only)
Supervision Mission, June 1997
PROPOSED HIGHWAY REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT (PK-PE-10556)
Preparation Mission, June 1997
Aide Memoire
(TSP No. 13)
1.    During the period from June 2 to 14, 1997, a World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Navaid A.
Qureshi (Mission Leader), A. Ali, A. Bhatti, H. Mukhtar, (SA1PK) and H. Masood and B. P. Kennedy
(Consultants) carried out a final supervision of the highway component of the Transport Sector Project to
assess the project's overall implementation performance, discuss the lessons learned, review the steps
needed to ensure an orderly completion of the project, initiate the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and agree on the project's Operational Plan. Loan 324 1-PAK closes on June 30,
1997. The mission also reviewed the progress in the preparation of the proposed Highway Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project and held discussions with government on the proposed Road Maintenance Fund.
The Aide Memoire records the findings and recommendations of the mission and the agreements and
understandings reached with officials of the relevant government departments and National Highway
Authority (NHA). It is subject to confirmation by Bank management.
2.     The World Bank Mission members wish to record their appreciation for the courtesies and
cooperation extended to them by the Federal and Provincial govemments and by the officials of the NHA in
headquarters and in the regions and for the excellent field trip arrangements (the field trip itinerary appears
as Annex. 1).
3.    This combined Aide-Memoire is arranged as follows:
I.     Transport Sector Project (TSP)
II     Proposed Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HR&MP)
Annexes



I. TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (Ln. 3241-PAK)
(Aide Memoire No. 13)
Project Objectives and Desciption
1.    The over-all objectives of t;he highway component of the Transport Sector Project were to assist in:
a)    bringing the National Highway Authority, (formerly the National Highway Board), to a
size, structure and level of professional competence reflecting its responsibilities;
b)    instituting a sustainable core investment and maintenance program for national highways;
and
c)    remomAng a substantial portion of the backlog of highway and bridge rehabilitation and
resurfacing.
2.     The objectives were to be achieved by i) providing Technical Assistance and training of NHA's
staff in the preparation and implementation of a road maintenance program and to improve NHA through
the adoption and the implementation of the Policy and Procedures and ii) implementing a Maintenance
Backlog Reduction Programn (BRP) covering the reconstruction, rehabilitation or major improvement
works on about 400 km of roads and a Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP) to prevent the
fuirter deterioration of anGther 400 km of road pavements. The original Closing Date of June 30, 1996
was oostponed to June 30, 1997 on a selective basis, to allow the completion of flood damage repair work
on one of the major roads in the prciect.
Overall ImplemenLtaion Performance
3.    The overall project objectives of the highway component have been substantially achieved and the
main project components have been completed within the extended project period. Despite NHA's pre-
occcupation -with GOP's ambitious highway expansion program since 1991, it has made progress towards
bec*ming a professional agency. It was reorganized along functional lines in early 1992. In early 1995 the
National Highway Council approved the revised NHA organizational structure, service rules, staff strength
and job descriptions for senior staff. However, implementation of the Policies and Procedures remains
outstanding. T-he institutional strength and capacity of NHA has been adversely affected in recent years by
frequent changes a-' the "Member" level and more recent changes at General Manager level. Modem
accounting policies and a uniform chart of accounts have been introduced and consolidated financial
staterments and agency vwide accounts have been prepared for 1995-96 using the new computerized
accounting system installed at headquarters and project offices at Islamabad and Lahore. NHA is currently
in the process of undertaking a commercial audit of these financial statements through a private sector
chartered accountant i=m.
4.     Tae MIvL systerr for identifying road maintenance needs under the Fourth Highway Project (FHP)
has been upgraded and incorporatei into a new Maintenance Management System (MMS). NHA is now
proposing to move towards privatization of maitenance planning and management with a related quality
assuIrance program. A core investent and maintenance program (CMP) for priority expenditures on the
National Highway System is being prepared and implemented annually and reviewed and comnmented on by
the Bank. However, annual maintenance allocations still remain significantly short of system needs. A
comrnercially managed Road Maintenance Fund financed from enhanced road user charges is now
proposed to overcome this problem.



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                    2
5.    The backlog of highway and bridge maintenance, rehabilitation and resurfacing has been reduced
under the project. A total of 301 kan of roads, 14 bridges and 16 drainage structures have been
reconstructed under the MBRP program. A further 397 km of roads have been repaved and strengthened
under the RSP program. These two programs have helped develop the domestic contracting industry. The
project has also assisted NHA in organizing its road maintenance programs.
6.    The completed MBRP and RSP programs have contributed significantly to the project's overall
developmental objective of reducing road transport costs. The shortfall of about 100 km in the total length
completed under the MBRP program resulted from the NHA's decision to reallocate funds to improve a
158 km length of the strategic N25 highway connecting Karachi port to the CIS countries and to provide an
additional new carriageway over 30 km of the main north-south highway N5, where the existing road was
disintegrating.
7.    The NHA staff, consultants and contractors deserve commendation for the preparation and
completion of the MBRP and RSP programs. In particular, the mission wishes to recognize and
acknowledge the achievement in completing the major MBRP 7005 contract despite the remote location and
resulting logistic problems, the very difficult and sometimes hostile environment and the technical problems
arising from the severe monsoon floods. The contractor, the consultant's Chief Resident Engineer and the
NHA staff involved are to be highly commended.
Lessons Learned
8.    The main lessons learned from the project are:
a)    Major rehabilitation works need to be meticulously investigated and prepared, to miniimize
costly variations during implementation.
b)    Contract administration, particularly of major ICB contracts, needs to be much imnproved
to avoid costly claims against the Employer.
c)    The local auditing procedures need to be updated to avoid conflict with modem contract
documents.
d)    Highway sector investmnents should be carefully prioritized to ensure timely availability of
counterpart funds.
e)    Alternative off-budget arrangements are needed to provide an adequate and reliable source
of highway maintenance funding.
f)    Vehicle overloading must be effectively addressed to minimize damage to the network.
g)    Fundamental institutional changes and effective financial controls should be required up-
front as a condition for project approval.
h)    To ensure continuity, key permanent senior staff should be directly involved with
consultants throughout the development and implementation of improvement programs.
Progress on Agreed Actions.
9.    Most of the actions agreed during the July 1996 mission have been taken. These relate to the
provision of additional counterpart funds for completion, investigation of pavement settlements on contract
7005, submission of TSP project audit for 95-96, preparation of NHA financial statements for 95-96,
providing details of the 96-97 road condition survey and road maintenance quality assurance program and



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                     3
the preparation of a draft completion report. However, there has been little progress on the implementaton
of the new Policies and Procedures. Also, full implementation of the computerized accounting system and
the finalization of the NHA agency-wide audit for 1993-95 has moved slowly.
Completion Status and Project Costs
10 .  The project physical works are now substantially complete, with the exception of 2 RSP and 5
minor MBRP bridge contracts which are being completed using GOP's own resources. The overall project
financial position estimated as of June 14, 1997 is given in Annex 3. Details are contained in NHA's June
15, 1997 Progress Report. Actual expenditures are Rs 3,836 million which represent 92% of the project
completion cost. Disbursements have reached US$ 79.5 million (89% of the revised Loan allocations for
the highway component).
Issues, Agreements and Recommendations
Counterpart Funds
11.    GOP has allocated Rs 250 million in counterpart funds for the TSP during 97-98. NHA confirmed
that the project, being part of the core program, will be given priority in the provision of additional
resources if required, to complete the remaining works and to clear all liabilities.
Contract Administration
12.   The contractor on MBRP 7005 is on record about delays in certified payments. A review of the
contractor's claims during the site visit revealed that approximately Rs 85 million are being claimed
because of lack of timely action under the contract. The mission emphasized that all outstanding certified
amounts should be promptly paid and clarified that claimns related to delayed payments etc. would not be
financed under the loan and that such costs must be borne by NHA/GOP. This highlights the importance
of improved contract administration. NHA agreed to streamline and speed-up its payment procedures
with immediate effect.
Closing of Contract MBRP 7005.
13.   Although the civil works on the major MBRP 7005 contract have been completed, certain actions
are needed by NHA to bring the contract to an orderly conclusion before the Chief Resident Engineer
leaves the site. There may therefore be a need to extend the CRE's services for some short period.
Financing of his services could come from the loan if extended, or otherwise from NHA's resources. The
following actions were agreed:
a)    completion of final measurement jointly with the contractor by June 30, 1997;
b)     detailed review of contractor's claims and Engineer's decision thereon by Aug. 31, 1997;
(Review meeting held at NHA, Islamabad on June 12 to initiate the resolution of these
issues)
c)    completion of final account for the contract by Aug. 31, 1997; and
d)    submission by NHA of all reimbursement applications in respect of expenditures for work
done prior to June 30, 1997 by Sept. 30, 1997.



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                     4
Accounting Assistance Study
14.    Consultants commenced work in mid 1995, and have helped NHA in the preparation of accounting
policies, a uniform chart of accounts, formats for financial statements and implementation of a
computerized general accounting system at NHA headquarters, project offices in Islamabad, regional office
Lahore and the Lahore-Islamabad Motorway office for 1995-96 accounts. Draft agency-wide financial
statements for 1993-95 were prepared earlier. The draft financial statements for 1995-96 have now been
prepared using the new computerized accounting system installed at headquarters and project offices at
Islamabad and Lahore.
15.   The new system has not been installed so far in the remaining regional offices, partly for lack of
appropriate hardware. There are also some concerns about the lack of competent and trained personnel to
operate the new system after the completion of the consultants' assignrment on June 30. Since July 1996,
entry of data under the new computerized system has been largely discontinued. These matters were
discussed with the Member Finance, who provided the mission an implementation plan to address these
issues shortly before the wrap-up meeting. It was agreed that the plan will be reviewed by the Bank and
comments provided to NHA following the mission.
Audits
16.   Audited financial statements for Ln. 3241 (TSP) and Ln. 2814 (Fourth Highway Project) for the
year 1995-96 which were due on Dec. 31, 1996 were provided to the mission.
17.   The DG Audit (Works) carried out a Certification Audit of the NHA agency wide financial
statements for 1993-95 and raised a number of issues which are currently being attended to by NHA. The
auditor has indicated that since the financial statements provided by NHA are not approved by the Board or
any competent authority, this may give rise to a qualified report. Following the conclusion of this mission
the Task Manager and the Bank's financial consultant (Mr. Morshed) plan to meet the Deputy Auditor
General, along with NHA Member Finance, to discuss problems faced by the project related to the audit,
delays in finalization of audit reports, the precedence of World Bank's procedures and NHA's proposals
for strengthening its financial systems.
18.   NHA is currently in the process of contracting a private sector chartered accountant firm for
undertaking a commercial audit of NHA financial statements for 1995-96. The audit is expected to be
completed by end October 1997. The mission emphasized that the Bank considers the satisfactory
completion of this commercial audit as a major milestone in NHA's transition towards a professionally
managed entity.
Institutional Strengthening of NHA.
19.   It was agreed that the institutional strengthening of NHA will need continued attention, particularly
in view of recent staff changes. The shared goal is to make NHA a center of technical excellence for the
highway subsector of Pakistan. NHA/GOP must ensure that high quality staff are placed in key positions.
The delay in implementing the Policies and Procedures, adopted in February 1996, has hindered the further
development of the institution. NHA indicated that they are contracting an independent consultant to



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                    5
undertake a one month review of the Policies and Procedures Manual, in order to identify shortcomings
and recommend improvements by Aug. 1997. This will be followed by implementation by Dec. 1997.
20.   The contractual problems faced on contract MBRP 7005 highlight the need having NHA staff
fully trained in the management of international contracts based on the FIDIC Conditions of Contract.
21.   The mission was informed that of the approximately 700 staff inducted into NHA on contract since
1995, about 500 have been retrenched recently. The concerned staff are contesting this decision in court
and a final decision is expected shortly.
Road Maintenance Funding
22.    Of the Rs 522 million allocated during 96-97 t against a demand of Rs 1.7 billion) only Rs 184
million has been released by GOP (including Rs 106 million released in May) for NHA's annual
maintenance program. As a result, the agency now has accumulated arrears amounting to approx. Rs 180
million. No routine or periodic maintenance contracts could be awarded in some regions (e.g .NWFP)
during 96-97. For 97-98 NHA has been allocated Rs 600 million for maintenance, against a request for Rs
2.01 billion.
23.   During the July 1996 mission NHA had agreed to divert its own toll revenue (approx. Rs 46 million
during 95-96) to supplement recurrent budget allocations for maintenance. However, this was not done. The
mission raised this issue, and at the wrap-up meeting Chainnan NHA confirmed that all toll revenues collected
by NRA during 97-98 (estimated to exceed Rs 100 million) would be used for maintenance. The mission
regards this as an important interim measure, until the Road Maintenance Fund arrangements come into effect.
Road Maintenance.
24.   The NHA's Pavement Management Cell (PMC) completed the road condition survey of the entire
network during Feb./Mar. 1997. The roughness survey is planned to be completed by July 97. However,
the results of these surveys have apparently not been used to develop and prioritize NHA's 97-98
annual maintenance program. NHA confirmed that this omission will be immediately rectified.
25.   The mission also observed certain implementation problems during.its discussions and the field
trip. The maintenance systems and controls set up in NHA appear to have weakened. An example was the
failure to attend to the routine maintenance of the median drainage system on the important Karachi-
Hyderabad highway, where dualization was financed under the Bank assisted Fourth Highway Project.
This is endangering the structural integrity of the pavement which is already showing signs of distress.
Early implementation of the new maintenance quality assurance program is expected to prevent such
lapses.
Disbursement and Special Accounts
26.   The mission's review indicated that no applications were submitted on the basis of Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) during the current FY. Recovery of the initial deposit is underway, and an amount of
US$159,903 is presently outstanding. TheNHA Special Account has a credit balance of US$51,121. NHA



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                    6
has been advised to refund the difference of US$108,781, or to provide equivalent eligible
documentation from its own resources. NHA indicated that this will be done by July 15, 1997.
Deadline for filing Withdrawal Applications
27.   The current Loan Closing Date is June 30, 1997. The mission stressed that in accordance with the
Bank's current practice, further disbursements from the loan will only be made for withdrawal
applications received at the Bank's headquarters by October 31, 1997, in respect of eligible
expenditures made before the Closing Date. Proceeds of the Loan remaining unwithdrawn after
disbursements have been made in respect of these withdrawal applications will be canceled. It was agreed
that to ease cash flow, NHA will file withdrawal applications for direct payment of the Bank's share, as far
as possible.
Implementation Completion Report
28.   Transfer of Completed Works: The schedule for substantial completion and transfer of completed
assets created under the project is shown in Annex 4. Most of the completed MBRP/RSP contracts have
been taken over by NHA and are reported to be part of their maintainable network. The improved road
sections under MBRP-7004 & 7005 will be transferred to the NHA maintenance division by June 30,
1997.
2 9.  Preparation of Operation and Maintenance Plan: As part of the Implementation Completion
Report preparation, NHA is to develop and present an acceptable Operation Plan for the maintenance and
operation of the assets created under the project. The plan should include:
a)    The required institutional arrangements and additional staffing needs, compliance status,
or the target dates by which these will be in place;
b)    Estimates of the additional operation and maintenance (O&M) costs resulting from the
operation of such works/assets, the agency's proposed strategy and the manner in which
funding will be phased into the maintenance schedule, and the source of such funding; and
c)    The key physical, operational and financial indicators for monitoring the performance of
these assets and assessing their development impact.
30.   Based upon the guidelines provided by the Mission, NHA agreed to submit a draft Operation
Plan by June 30, 1997 for the Bank's review. NHA will finalize the Plan after incorporating the
Bank's comments by Aug. 1, 1997.
31.   Implementation ComRletion Report (ICR): The Mission explained to NHA the format and
guidelines for the preparation of the ICR and identified the data/information to be provided by NHA which
will include current traffic data on project roads, econormic analysis of the MBRP/RSP completed
contracts, financial and other tables attached to the ICR etc. As part of the ICR procedures, the borrower
is also required to submit its own evaluation report. NHA submitted a draft report on TSP to the Bank in
April 1997. The Mission explained the additional areas that need to be covered in the borrower's report.



TSP Aide memoire No. 13                       7
32.    The following timetable has been agreed:
a)     NHA to provide input/data for the ICR                    Aug. 1, 1997
b)     Borrower completes its evaluation report
and transmits it to the Bank,                            Aug. 1, 1997
c)     Bank sends draft ICR to borrower for comments:           Sept. 15, 1997
d)     Borrower provides comments on Bank's draft               Oct. 15, 1997
e)     Task Manager reviews comments and
prepares grey cover ICR:                                 Nov. 15, 1997
Request for extension of Technical Assistance Component
33.    The mission received a request from NHA/MOC for a one year extension of the Technical
Assistance component of the TSP. This has been passed on to Bank management. A formal request from
EAD is awaited.
NASHARED\QURESHITSPAM697.DOC
7



ANNEX B
Railway Mission Aide-Memoire



PAKISTAN
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
and
TRANSPORT SECTOR LOAN, RAILWAY COMPONENT (LN. 3241-PAK)
June 15-27, 1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank rnission' visited Pakistan to continue the dialogue with the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) on the railway restructuring and privatization program and to review its status. At the
request of GOP, the Bank provided technical assistance under the Transport Sector Loan (Ln. 3241-
PAK) to support this program. During its visit, the mission met with officials of the Privatization
Commission (PC), Pakistan Railways (PR), and Ministry of Railways (MOR). The mission would like to
thank the above for their courtesies. This aide memoire was revised following the wrap-up meeting to
reflect the agreed position of the mission and PC, PR and MOR. This is subject to confirmation by Bank
management.
I. Status of Railway Restructuring and Privatization
2.    The GOP' s announced strategy for restructuring and privatizing PR is to unbundle the railway
into three core businesses (freight, passenger and infrastructure), plus a residual entity -- the Railway
Resettlement Agency. The core businesses will be corporatized and privatized; and the Resettlement
Agency, residing in the public sector, will retain all surplus assets and liabilities, including surplus and
scrapped equipment, redundant labor, debt and enviromnental cleanup obligations. It will manage and
dispose of all residual assets and settle outstanding liabilities. A Railway Regulatory Authority will be
established under a new regulatory framework for the restructured, private sector rail industry. The
Taskforce on Railway Restructuring and Privatization, comprising key members from the MOR, PR, and the
PC, is overseeing this process.
3.    Over the last year, much of the unbundling into separate business units has been completed: assets
have been identified and assigned to each business, managing directors for the four entities have been
nominated and in general the top three layers of staff have been identified, and the basis for separate
commercial accounts has been established. The unbundled businesses are targeted to begin operating as
separate business units on July 15, 1998 with corporatization targeted for October 31, 1998, but not later
than January 1, 1999. The mission held in-depth interviews with each of the four managing directors and
was impressed with the progress made to date and the enthusiasm for beginning commercial operations on
July 15 as separate business units, despite certain decisions that need to be made and despite tight railway
budget constraints. The mission strongly supports the start-up of operations as separate business units on
July 15 and the achievement of corporatization by the target date.
4.    Critical Next Steps: Despite significant progress made on restructuring the railways, many
decisions need to be taken to enable the core businesses to operate on a commercial basis and to prepare
for corporatization. The mission discussed the key next steps with PR, PC and MOR and the following
target dates were agreed:
I     The mission comprised: J. Fraser (Task Leader), R. Kopicki and J. Tillman (Bank) and J. Broadley
(consultant). K. Rashid (consultant) provided the financial analysis of PR.



(a)    Notification of the managing directors for each of the four business units and transfer of
authority to the MDs for operating their business units which may involve finance,
administration, operational authority and accountability. Issuance of an Executive Order
to allow PR to be divided into three separate business units during the interim period
before corporatization. The mission would like to stress the critical nature of these
initiatives and to recommend that they receive absolute priority. (June 30, 1998).
(b)    Appointment of financial support teams (consisting of chartered and cost accountants,
MBA and lawyer) for each business unit by the Railway Board/MOR. (July 15, 1998)
(c)    Implementation of a new accounting system and preparation of commercial accounts for
each core business which will be done in parallel with the current accounts system until
corporatization. (begin immediately and continue through corporatization)
(d)    MOR to request the Auditor General to engage consultants to value assets for each core
business unit. (completed, June 24, 1998)
(e)    Re-notification of the lapsed Ordinance No. I of 1998 which allowed for the separation
of the Railway Board from the Ministry. (complete as soon as possible).
5.     Proposed Bank Assistance: As noted earlier, the Bank has been engaged in a policy dialogue with
MOR/PRIPC on railway reform for several years. These agencies have expressed interest in receiving Bank
support for the Govemment's railway privatization program, approved in April 1997, through a loan which
would (i) help finance severance payments and emergency rehabilitation and (ii) provide technical
assistance for the privatization of the core businesses and the newly created Railway Resettlement and
Railway Regulatory Authorities. The project would support the implementation of GOP' s policy for
railway reform and privatization. (Annex 1 provides a project summary and Annex 2 provides the agreed
Borrower Action Plan for project preparation.)
6.    In response to issues raised by the Secretary Railways regarding use of funds under the emergency
rehabilitation component, the mission would like to clarify the following. The investment component for
emergency rehabilitation could include items to remedy safety critical deficiencies, including infrastructure
and passenger and freight equipment, and to remedy immediate operational deficiencies to allow the
business units to meet their contractual obligations. The mission pointed out that any investments under this
component should be limited to correct short term safety and operational shortfalls prior to privatization and
is not a wide ranging rehabilitation component. We suggest that the content for investments under this
component be furnished by the individual business units and should be justified on grounds of safety and
removal of critical short term operational deficiencies.
7.     The mission concurs with the Secretary's suggestion to support each of the MD' s with a core group
of experienced business professionals (e.g. chartered and cost accountants, MBA and corporate lawyer) as
the most effective way to transfer business management skills into the new organizations. In addition, the
mission agrees that investment in management capability and further skills development is desirable for the
business success of the new enterprises. To this end, we agree with the recommendations made to use some
portion of a project preparation facility for short-term training for the new managing directors and their key
staff to fill any gap in fundamental commercial skills. The mission pointed out that a longer-term training
requirement exists for the management and staff of the new Railway Resettlement Authority and the
Railway Regulatory Authority that will remain in the public sector. It was agreed that this need can be
financed through technical assistance under a Bank-supported project/loan.



8.    The mission appreciates the difficulty in implementing wide-scale reform in the sector and is
prepared to move in tandem with the pace of the Government's program. The mission has shared a draft
Project Concept Document with the Government and has received broad agreement on the project concept.
In the mission's view, project preparation could begin as early as October/November 1998 if the following
steps in the GOP' s Action Plan are completed:
*  Corporatization of three core business units (passenger, freight and infrastructure) under the
Company's Act.
*  Cabinet approval of Railway Policy and Regulatory Framework (subject to incorporation of
comments provided by the mission).
*  Mobilization of consultants for the labor redundancy study which would recommend a
framework for severance pay and the estimated cost.
*  Formulation of a public service obligation (PSO) policy by the Passenger Business Unit and
the Ministry of Railways for passenger services that are non-remunerative and
recommendation on the PSO policy sent to the Ministry of Finance.
*  Cabinet approval of amendment to the Railway Act to provide for the establishment of a new
regulatory framework and to permit the transfer of PR assets to corporatized entities.
During the wrap-up meeting, MOR noted that when corporatizing the three core business units under the
Company's Act, they would seek a provision that the existing fiscal and taxation concession available at
this time (PR does not pay income taxes, etc.) shall continue for five years as in the case of PTC.
II. Key Railway Reforms and Government Policy
9.    Private Sector Rail Opportunities (Annex 3).   The mission concurs with GOP's decision to
introduce private train service on the lines of Pakistan Railways prior to privatization. Technical bids for
an oil transportation contract with PSO are due on July 15, 1998, and financial proposals are expected by
September 21, 1998. The PC expects this Oil RECO, which is the first implementation of the Open
Access Policy announced in January 1996, to reach financial closure by December 31, 1998. Other
private train service proposals are under consideration. One involving the operation of air-conditioned
passenger express trains will be based on a negotiated track access agreement and contemplates the sale
by PR of equipment to the new entity for rehabilitation. MOR noted that each business unit of PR will
endeavor to better utilize their assets and to seek investment from the private sector. While the mission
supports the concept of introducing additional private train operations on PR lines, such support is
predicated upon any contractual arrangements between PR and the private train operating company being
negotiated on an arms length basis and being fully compensatory to PR. (Annex 3, Attachment A
provides a checklist for the development, licensing and approval of new RECO operations).
10.   Track Access Regime Issues (Annex 4). A workable track access regime should be implemented
as quickly as possible. Much of the underlying analysis has been completed and PR's work on a track
access regime will be finalized by the time of corporatization through negotiations among the core
business units. The track access regime is the core commercial interface between the infrastructure
company and the train operating companies and also a critical component of the Public Service
Obligation ("PSO") process. Because the infrastructure company will have to recover its fixed and
common costs (including cost of capital and administration costs), as well as the variable costs of the
traffic, through the track access agreement, the design of track access charges presents a significant
challenge. This challenge is further complicated by the infrastructure company's need to catch up on
deferred maintenance. The mission believes that in designing the track access regime the infrastructure
company should recognize that, as a general matter: (i) long run variable costs should always be
recovered, (ii) users should pay only for the infrastructure they use, (iii) different traffic segments have
different capabilities to contribute to fixed and common costs, and (iv) the pricing regime should be both



transparent and workable. The mission recognizes that any track access regime will be a compromise
between strict economic rationality and commercial practicability. The principal responsibility for
reaching this compromise lies with the infrastructure company, on the one hand, and the train operating
companies on the other. Regulatory intervention should be limited to the case where parties cannot reach
an agreement and affirmatively seek regulatory intervention.
11.    Railway Policy and Regulatory Issues (Annexes 5 and 6). The mission strongly recommends that
the MOR/PC refine the new Railway Policy and the Scope and Framework for the Railway Regulatory
Authority in order to eliminate discrepancies within and between the two documents prior to Cabinet
approval. This is necessary in order to reflect the "minimalist" approach to regulation which takes into
account the pervasive competition that exists in the transportation market in Pakistan. A successful
privatization of Pakistan Railways is dependent on the establishment and implementation of a regulatory
framework for the privatized railway industry that is consistent with successful commercial operation of
the railway and that does not convey to potential investors the perception of significant regulatory risk.
Specific comments on the two documents have been provided to the PC and are included in Annexes 5
and 6.
12.    Because the freight transportation market in Pakistan is intensely competitive, there is no need
for economic regulation to protect shippers. In the case of passenger transportation, with the exception
of certain narrowly defined markets, alternate mode transportation is available and, as in the case of
freight, there is no need for economic regulation to protect passengers. Economic regulation of
passenger fares may be necessary in limited cases where the only access to a remote area is provided by
the railway, or in certain socially desirable cases where part of the costs of the transportation service are
being met by the government through a Public Service Obligation ("PSO") payment.
13.    Economic regulation of access charges and access conditions may be necessary and appropriate.
Imposition of appropriate economic regulation on railways operating in an intensely competitive
environment nevertheless presents a serious risk of adversely affecting their ability to compete by
adjusting rates or changing service levels or quality with the same speed as their competitors. Thus,
economic regulation should be structured to minimize this interference. As a general matter, reactive
economic regulation that responds to complaints and disputes is to be preferred over economic regulation
that requires regulatory pre-approval of business decisions that reduces the railway's competitive
flexibility. Annex 6 addresses these issues in greater detail.
14.    The safety regulatory arrangements have been developed separate from the economic regulatory
regime. The mission concurs that the establishment of a modern and appropriate railroad safety
regulatory regime. The strengthening of the Federal Inspector General of Railway (FGIR) Office should
proceed in parallel with the establishment of the Railway Regulatory Authority. FGIR should be
strengthened in terms of technical expertise, discipline and necessary logistical resources. The newly
fashioned FGIR should be charged with the establishment and enforcement of safety standards and rules
for the operation of railways in Pakistan and with responsibility for resolving disputes relating to safety
issues, such as those that might arise between the owner and operator of the infrastructure and the various
train operating companies using or wishing to use the infrastructure.
15.    Arrangements for a Public Service Obligation (PSO) Payment. If the Government wishes to
preserve passenger or freight services that are not economically viable, it will be necessary to enter into a
public service obligation agreement with one or more of the corporatized entities (or a private company)
to provide the service. The agreement will specify the service to be provided and the corresponding
financial arrangements. The Govermment will have several tasks to accomplish in the next several
months: (i) to identify those services that the railway operating companies can run in an economically
viable manner and those which they plan to discontinue, (ii) to determine the subsidy cost of preservation



for uneconomic services, (iii) to determine which of the services (if any) the government wishes to
continue, and (iv) to negotiate acceptable public service obligation agreements to provide for
continuation of the selected services. Some of the work required under (i) and (ii) already has been
completed by the Passenger Unit and their consultants. MOR noted that additional work is required to
evaluate the passenger services on a commercially viable manner.
16.   The mission confirmed that MOR will identify non-economic services to be subsidized through a
PSO agreement and will formulate the PSO policy for review and approval by the Ministry of Finance by
the date of corporatization. It will be important to the success of the privatization program that these
PSO agreements be reached at arms length with the independent business units and/or the corporatized
business units. In the mission's view, long-term PSO agreements that do not fully compensate the train
operator for the cost of service could seriously impair the marketability of the business unit, and will
raise serious concerns in the mind of potential investors regarding the government's future commitment
to pay for non-economic services it wishes the private railway to provide.
17.   Labor Redundancy Scheme. Development of a coherent framework for managing the surplus
labor which is both affordable by the government and acceptable to the employees is a critical item for
successful privatization. The mission expressed its concern about the lack of progress on the
development of a labor redundancy scheme given that the initial study which was due to be completed by
June 30, 1998 has yet to be started. MOR/PR has agreed to mobilize consultants to undertake this study
by July 15, 1998. Given the potential number of surplus workers (30,000 to 40,000) and the desire to
provide "comfort" to employees that their needs and rights will be respected, the mission strongly
reconmmends a process of involving employees and labor unions in designing the redundancy scheme.
This early consultative process should help align the government's need to keep a firm grip on the overall
affordability of the scheme with realistic expectations by the employees. In addition, the mission
recommended to the designated managing directors that they communicate with their staff at all levels
concerning the change process and their vision for their business's futures to address the uncertainties in
the minds of their staff.
18.   Although the Bank could help finance severance pay and retrainingloutplacement under a
possible Bank project, it is anticipated that this component will require significant counterpart funding.
MORIPC shall explore the possibilities of such counterpart funding or other resources, in consultation
with the Planning Commission and MOF, and communicate to the Bank by the time of project
preparation.
19.   The Resettlement Authority will have many complex tasks to accomplish, including the
liquidation of surplus assets, the pay-down of outstanding liabilities, the provision of severance benefits,
and the retraining, regrouping and redeployment of surplus labor. The accomplishment of these tasks in
a systematic and business-like fashion is essential to the overall success of the privatization program.
Steps for early establishment of the Railway Resettlement Authority have already been initiated with the
nomination of the MD. MOR noted that funding for the necessary preparation for the establishment of
process, procedures, and functions will be included in the Project Preparation Facility being sought from
the Bank.
20.   Need for Financial Advisers/Market Soundings. The PC has received both financial and
technical proposals from three qualified groups to provide financial advisory services in support of the
privatization of PR's three core business units. Technical bids have been opened but not evaluated and
financial bids remain sealed. Bid validity expires on July 10, 1998. The PC sought the mission's advice
on how to proceed on the engagement of a financial adviser given the changed investment climate, the
lack of current financing, and the status of preparatory work. The timing for the engagement of a
financial advisor was originally designed to interconnect with key supporting work which has not been



accomplished. This includes completion of a study on the railway's environmental clean up liability and
a study of its liability for employee pensions, early retirements, separations and social benefits. In
addition, the necessary work on drafting the new legal and regulatory framework, including economic,
environmental and safety regulation, is likewise lacking. Without these complementary efforts, financial
advisors would be significantly handicapped in their efforts to prepare and sell the core businesses of PR.
21.   The mission discussed with the PC various options regarding how to proceed with the
engagement of a financial advisor given the current circumstances and the potential changes in the timing
and scope of work. Based on these discussions, the mission requested the PC to provide the Bank with
its specific recommendation on how to proceed, i.e. proceeding with evaluation or cancellation and re-
tendering, etc. for Bank review and no objection. The PC agreed to provide this to the Bank by July 1,
1998.
22.   The mission recommends that the PC undertake market soundings to assess potential interest in
investing in the core business units of an unbundled PR. This work is typically done by financial
advisors. Market soundings provided before corporatization can materially assist with determining
whether three separate enterprises are more valuable than a vertically integrated rail enterprise. Much of
these soundings can be done informally by the PC's staff through interaction with the management of
railway enterprises who are involved in global diversification of their holdings and through the
presentation of "road shows" in several regional markets, including North America and Britain. The
upcoming Asian Privatization Conference in Singapore presents a unique and valuable opportunity for
the PC to "showcase" the PR offering. The hiring of the financial adviser will be congruent with the
corporatization of the three business units.
23.   Adequacy of PC staffing and MOR/PR arrangement to complete preparation for privatization.
The mission recognizes the complexity of restructuring, corporatizing and privatizing the railway. The
Taskforce set up last year provides a good vehicle to coordinate the many activities to reach
corporatization and privatization. The PC has taken the lead on managing the day-to-day coordination
efforts which will intensify in scale over the next several months. In order to meet the demand, the
mission supports the PC's desire to include on their railway privatization team a member with relevant
railway experience. It is our understanding that a suitable candidate has been identified, and the mission
recommends early action on this matter. The mission strongly supports the Railway Chairman's
initiative to provide financial and legal support teams to each business unit and understands that
mobilizing funding of these teams is underway.
24.   Funding of Preparation Activities (Annex 7). Previous commitments from Japanese donor
agencies to fund preparation activities and provide technical assistance have now been frozen as a result
of the recent sanctions. (A PHRD grant for $920,000 was sought to fund preparation activities, including
the labor redundancy study and JICA had committed to providing technical assistance to the Railway
Resettlement Authority.) The PC should follow up with DFID to assess whether they are still willing to
provide technical assistance for the Railway Regulatory Authority. The Bank's Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) could be used to fund preparation activities of up to US$2 million which could then be
refinanced under the proposed loan. A formal request from EAD would be required for such an advance.
MOR agreed to prepare the necessary documentation for "concept clearance" by GOP by August 10,
1998. Annex 7 provides a recommended set of activities to be funded through the PPF.
25.   Railway Cultural Heritage (Annex 8). Pakistan's railway cultural heritage needs protection
during the modernization and privatization process, and PR is commissioning a review so that the new
railway legislation could establish procedures for classifying critical cultural heritage items and for
ensuring preservation or reuse. Critical steps include: (i) protect heritage equipment from premature
scrapping; (ii) PR complete the heritage policy review; (iii) establish railway museums at Peshawar and



Bostan; (iv) develop business plans for autonomous heritage railway operations at both locations; and
(v) hold workshop to develop civil society awareness and support. MOR noted that this study would be
undertaken in the latter half of 1999, but agreed to advance this date if resources become available.
III. Transport Sector Loan
26.    The Transport Sector Loan, which was twice extended from its original closing date of June 30,
1996, will close on June 30, 1998. The remaining railway component provided technical assistance for
preparing PR for privatization, including consultants to the PC (Hickling Transcom) and to assist PR
(CIE Consult) with the organization and operation aspects of the restructuring needed for privatization.
CIE Consult has worked closely with concerned PR staff to bring PR to a point where the new unbundled
core businesses are ready to become operational on July 15, 1998. It was agreed by PC/MORIPR that the
target date for corporatization of the core businesses would be targeted for October 31, 1998, but not
later than January 1, 1999 -- beyond the period where GOP would be reimbursed under the Loan for CIE
Consult services.
27.   Although the systems for re-orienting the financial accounting system were developed and
considerable training of PR staff undertaken by CIE Consult, the new parallel accounts for each of the
core businesses could not be implemented because new accounting codes were not applied by PR.
Similarly, it should be noted that GOP's 1990 decision to develop parallel conmmercial accounts for PR
was not implemented, and the project's original TA component for such work was not undertaken.
28.   The mission reviewed PR's financial performance. A detailed report is given in Annex 9. Since
1992-93, PR losses have been increasing and reached a record high of Rs. 6.6 billion in 1995-96.
Operational inefficiencies and declining traffic levels contributed to increased losses and these problems
were exacerbated by the following:
(a)    PR has been unable to increase its tariffs in line with inflation. Cumulative tariff
increase during 1990-98 has been only 43% against 127% cumulative inflation for this
period.
(b)    PR is forced to operate its inherently loss making PSO services under GOP instructions,
and GOP has stopped providing PSO payments to PR which are estimated around Rs. 2
billion;
(c)    PR is incurring heavy interest payments on its overdraft with the State Bank. (Rs. 1.5
billion in 1996-97)
(d)    PR has not been receiving adequate grants to meet incidence of post budgetary taxation.
The cost of high speed diesel was increased six times during the period July 1996 and
December 1996 resulting in additional expense of Rs 732 million.
(e)    Heavy pension liabilities were incurred during the year 1995-96 resulting in Rs 1.4
billion of additional expenditure with no supplementary grant provided.
29.   A key objective of the project was railway restructuring and establishment of a business
department to develop the commercial orientation of PR. During 1990-1996, it became clear that despite
the efforts of concerned business department staff, and the useful institutional strengthening work
undertaken during this period, the objective of commercial orientation was not achievable as long as PR
remained a government department. However during 1997-1998, the institutional reorganization of PR
was initiated and when unbundling is implemented on July 15 and later corporatized this project



objective will be achieved. The financial objective of financial profitability was not met for the reasons
discussed in para 25 above. The investment component was intended to enable PR to improve its
operational performance. However this could not be achieved because: (a) GOP did not comply with the
covenant to provide adequate revenue budget spares, thus nullifying the project assistance for building up
a stock of unit exchange spares; (b) inadequate implementation of the core investment program; (c) late
completion of the roller bearing program which has slowed the improvement of wagon performance; and
(d) slow PC-I clearance and inadequate Annual Development Program allocations which resulted in
about US$40 million of the railway component being unused when the equipment category closed in
June 30, 1998.
30.   With the closure of the project, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) needs to be written.
Bank guidelines on preparing the ICR have been provided to PR. Part of the requirements of the ICR is
the preparation by the Borrower of a Project Completion Operation Plan. The following schedule was
agreed:
*  Draft the Post Completion Operation Plan by July 30, 1998
* Project completion cost data to Bank by July 30,1998
* Borrower contribution to ICR (Part II) including the final Operation Plan incorporating the
Bank's comments by September 15, 1998
e Bank provide draft ICR for Borrower's comments by September 15, 1998;
e  Borrower's comments received by Bank by October 15, 1998
- ICR finalized and distributed by November, 30 1998
List of Annexes
Annex 1:     Project Summary
Annex 2:     Project Preparation Plan
Annex 3:     Private Sector Rail Opportunities and Checklist for RECOs
Annex 4:     Track Access Regime
Annex 5:     Comments on the Railway Policy
Annex 6:     Comments on Railway Regulatory Framework
Annex 7:     Recommended Activities to Be Funded Under the PPF
Annex 8:     Railway Cultural Heritage
Annex 9:     PR Financial Performance
NOTE: For the purpose of the Transport Sector Project Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), Annex 9 of this aide-memoire (PR Financial Performance) is presented in an
updated form in Annex D of the ICR.



ANNEX C
Borrower's Contribution
National Highway Authority
I



NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
Government of Pakistan
yxGHWA/-
4
1SLAMAT-\AD
TSP FINAL REPORT
Transport Sector Project
Loan No. 3241 PAK
MBRP/RSP CELL
June, 1997



TSP Loan Final Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.1    History of the Project.
1.2   Introduction.
CHAPTER ~2
2.1    Project Identification and Implementation.
2.2    Maintenance Intervention Level System (MIL).
2.3    Project Identification for MBRPIRSP Projects
2.4    Design Features.
2.5    Construction Sequence.
2.6    Pre-qualification and Tendering
2.7    Composite Schedule of Rates and Material Studies Report.
2.8    Quality Assurance Program.
CHAPTER 3
3.1    Technical Assistance as Management Consultant.
3.2    Management Consultant's Works Program.
CHAPTER 4
4.1    Justification of Projects.
4.2    Projects Details with Financial Status.
4.3    Impact & Achievement of M9BRP/RSP Projects.
LIST OF ANNEXURES
AVNEXURE I                    Details of RSP Projects (Upro June 30, 1997)
ANNEXURE 11                   Details of MBRP Projects (Upto June 30, 1997)
ANNEXURE III                  Details of 1992-FDRP Projects (Upto June 30, 1997)
ANVEXURE IV           :       NHA Organization Chartfor MBRPIRSP Projects
ANNEXURE V                    Kamnpsar Organization Chart for MBRP/RSP Projects
A.ANEXURE 17:                 Financial Status for TSP Loan (Pak Rupees)
AMNEXURE VII                 Financial Status for TSP Loan (Pak Rs. & US Dollars)
AiVNEXURE VIII                Physical Achievement of .SP Projects
A.NNEXURE IX                  Physical Achievement of .'BRP Projects
ANVEXURE X                    Typical Cross-Section - A ;ohal Works
ANNEXURE XI                   Typical Cross-Section - k'BMand TST
ANVVEXURE XII                 Typical Cross-Section - 4IBRP 7004
ANVAEXURE XIH         :       Typical Cross-Section - AJBRP 7005



TSP Loan Final Report
.     tE :;-:E-7'-:-i:'5    "i5:'CHAPTERi .--i1 ''      ':''        ' "         i
1.1 HISTORY
In 1986, the National High wa,v Authority NHA. (at that time National High say Board NHB), as part of the
\orld Bank funded Third Highwvay Project (1982-85), undertook a study to identifv the scope and
rLquirements for maintenance on the national high way network in Pakistan. The 3rd Hgway Project was
one of the operations assisted bv the World Bank for highway infiastructure development in Pakistan. As part
of this study, a ten-year maintenance progrnam under fiscal constraints and an organizational structure was
developed to meet the maintenance requirements of the national highway netwvork.
In earls 1987. and again in 1988. as part of the ongoing Maintenance by Contract program, an analvsis of the
national highway network was carried out using a siunplfied manual methodology to predict those segments
of the network which were in need of pnroritv maintenance, rehabilitation or reconstruction. This methodology
N3as based on assessment of network due to pavement condition, traffic volumes and environmental factors
and was called Mlaintenance Intervention Level (MIL) system.
The analysis suggested that a significant percentage of the netvork is in need of prioritv maintenance, the
level of which is beyond the scope of routine and periodic maintenance programs.
The representatives of the World Bank during a Transport Sector Adjustment loan visit, reviewed the results
of the preliminan, analysis undertaken in 1987 and 1988 and after discussion Nwith INHB determined that it
%sould be of significant benefit to re-adjust the loan in order to utilize some of the loan funds for the roadway
segnents requiring an extraordinary level of maintenance. It was believed that a program to reduce the
backlog of maintenance ivould rehabilitate the poor sections of the hi2hwav network to a level wvhere thev
could be maintained via routine and periodic maintenance contracts which were within the fiscal limitatons
of the NHB.
In July 1989. the PMU cell (Pavement Monitoring Unit) of the Maintenance Directorate of the NTHB wsith the
assistance of its consultants, commenced a study to evaluate and update the preliminarv analysis done in
1987 and 1988. The major objectives of the study wvere
*      Identification and Prioritization of road segments requiring immediate extraordinar maintenance:
*      Evaluation of the economic benefits of undertaking the required extraordinary maintenance; and
*      Recornmendation of a program of maintenance contract packages to reduce the outstanding backlog
in maintenance works.
In the context of the study, Extra ordinars Maintenance was defined as the reconstnrction rehabilitation or
major imProvement of a segment of roadway, required to strengthen a pavement structure and/or to attai a
road,, av condition that can be adequatelv maintained through routine and periodic maintenance.



TSP Loan Final Report
Id[t&fication and appraisal by the World Bank for the Transport Sector loan was commenced in early 1990.
Lcan negotiations for US S 77. 5 million were concluded on 27th July, 1990. The loan amount was split into
two types of improvement programs, MBRP and RSP:
;)  M.\aintenance Backlog Reduction Programr (iMBRP) This program covered those road sections
which had deteriorated to a point where they required reconstruction, rehabilitation or major
improvement to return them to maintainable condition.
ii)    Resurfacina and Stren-thening Programs (RSP). This programn covered those road sections
whose strength w-as irproved bv surface treatments and overlays, thus reducing further
deterioration.
For this purpose, services of expatriate Danish consultants Mv/s Kampsax International A/S were acquired to
prepare. manage and monitor the progrars under the guidelines of the World Bank. The principal consultants
".ere assisted by the counterpart NaHB stff and local associate consultants on various projects.
1.2   INTRODUCTION
The Transport Sector Loan. TSP Loan No. 3241 PAK *-as signed bet-een the Government of Pakistan and
the World Bank on 27th July. 1990. The total amount of the loan is US S 184 million. The loan is primarily
divided between Munistrv of Railways and National Highway Authority. The National Highway Authonrv
portion of the loan amounting to US S 77.5 nillion is to be utilized wvith matching Government of Pakistan
(GOP) funds. Later on. in 1996 an additional amount of US $ 11.5 million has been transferred from
Railway component to NL-IA under re-appropriation to cover the force majure Flood Damages works on
MIBRP 7005 (WVadh-Surab section on N-25). Thus. the total loan value for highwav component is LS S 89
million.
The financial sharing portion of the World Bank and Government of Pakistan (GOP). as decided in the loan
agreement, is as under:-
World Bank |  GOP
MBRP Program           70 %         30 %
RSP Program L991-92      60 %          40 %
RSP Program 1992-93      40 %          60 %
RSP Program 1993-94      20 %          80 %
The particulars of the loan are:-
Loan effective date                  February, 1991
Original Completion date            30th June, 1996
Revised Completion date             30th June, 1997



1TSP Loan Final Repore
The break up of the loan is as under:
||Original IBRD   | Projected Actual
Finan__ng        IBRI) Financinga
i)     Maintenance Backlog Reduction          US $ 52 Million    US S 72.4 Million
Program  (MBRP)                         ._       _
ii)    Resurfacing & Strengthening            US S 15 Million     US $ 8.1 Million
Program  (RSP)
iii)    Technical Assistance (TA)            US $ 10.5 Million    US S 8.5 Nfillion
iv)    Funds transferred from Rail-av        IS.s    9Ilio
Component to NHA by Re-
appropriation.                                                              l
TOTAL                         US S 89 Mfillion     US S 89 Million
The cost of GOP component. as on June 30. 1997 is Rs. 1604 million for MBRP and Rs. 665 million for
RS P.
Ever since the sanction of loan from the World Bank in US dollars, Pakistani currencv has undergone various
fluctuations. %vith the resulting devaluation of Rupee in each instance. Consequendt, the Pak Rupee
equivalent of this foreign loan increased in nunerical value, as compared to the initial estimates prepared for
TSP loan projects.
In order to utilize the increased amounts due to devaluation. inclusion of more projects became necessary
thereby requiring that additional portion as matching funds for the projects should be provided. GOP/NHA
agreed to provide the necessary counter-part funding to complete the additional projects and fully utilize the
loan amoumt.
Loan Completion
The original Loan closing date was June 30, 1996. Howvever. the World Bank has agreed to a one vear
postponement of the loan closing date up to June 30, 1997. to enable NHA to complete the additional work
on contract MIBRP-7005 (N-25 Wadh-Surab Section) arising from the damages caused bv the unprecedented
1995 floods and rains in and around Khuzdar.
Re-.Allocation
As part of the seiective extension of Loan 3241-PAK, the Bank has reallocated US S 11.5 million from the
savings on the Railway Component of the TSP to finance the additional works related to the 1995 flood
damages on contract MBRP-7005 (N-25. Wadh-Surab section).



TSP Loan Final ReDort
-  -:   ::       --CHAPTER  -2                       .--- - 
2.1    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
For the whole national highway network, a detailed technical study was done to prioritize the road
sections which were beyond the scope of normal maintenance and required major
rehabilitationlreconstr-uction. Each project under MBRP and RSP category was identified based on the
pavement condition survey. This condition survey data along with the data from the pavement roughness
and the strength surveys. topographical plans. traffic counts and clirmatic data was used as input in the
NMaintenance Intervention System (MIL).
2.2    MAINTENANCE INTERVENTION LEVEL (MIL) SYSTEM.
MIL system is a rating system used to determine the maintenance requirements of a road segment based
on the evaluation of road characteristics. MIL is used to develop accurate maintenance budgets enabling
a highway authority to make best use of limited funding.
For a roadway segment of five kilometers. a comprehensive set of data is gathered for eighteen different
faciors. These data are broadly divided into two categories; a) conditions which may be improved by
maintenance; and b) factors which influence how much maintenance is needed e.g. climate, terrain,
traffic etc.
Each data is given .a certain score for each one kilometer section based on severity, all the scores are
added together to obtain a final intervention score, which indicates the level of maintenance needed by
each road segment. These scores, called Intervention scores, are then categorized into following ranges.
MIL Score                      Recommendation
<  40              :       Routine Maintenance needed.
40 - 49            :       Preferential Status of Periodic Maintenance.
50 - 59            :       Localized Periodic Maintenance.
60 - 69            :       Major Improvement, Periodic Overlays.
> 70               :      Reconstruction/Rehabilitation.
The above ranges of NIIL score or Pavement Condition Index (PCI) , as defined in the PC-I , were
also used to define the projects to be included in MBRP and RSP package. Based on the different ranges
of PCI, following road serviceability categories were adopted
Cate,,orv 1
Any segrnent of road with a surface roughness value exceeding 5000 mm/Km and with potholes/patches <
15%. but othenvise in g,ood condition. Pavement condition Index (PCI) = 40 to 49.
Cate-orv 2
Any segment of road meeting the requirements of category 1, but with potholes and/or patches exceeding
15% and belowv 60% (15 - 60 %) of the roadway surface area. Pavement condition Index PCI = 50 to 59.
at-ry 3
An segment of road where the roadway surface area is more than 60% Xo cracked and the surface is beginning
to disintegrate. Pavement condition Index PCI = 60 to 69.
Cate-orv 4
AnY segp-nlt of the road Nshere a paved roadway surface is nonexistent or is in an advanced state of
dlsTlttyrr;o  /.7lvmut}  osSi<>nSnerP(- r71)



TSP Loan Final Renort
2.3    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION FOR MBRP & RSP PROJECTS
The Pavement Condition Index (PCI) survey of 1989-90 projected the following classes of national highway
network:
Route   - Length      Category 1   Category 2 1 Category 3   Category 4
N-5        1762        22.65 %       19.93 %      15.40 %      25.07 %
N-25  J    817          15.07%       22.22 %       12.69 %      28.57 %
N-35        806         8.10 %        18.91 %      16.21 %      35.13 %
N -40       625         18.39 %       16.09 %      13.79 %      26.43 %
N-50        531         29.50 %       13.11 %      11.47 %      29.50 %
N -55       1265        23.88 %       13.36 %      7.69 %        17.00 %
N -65       385         19.71 %       9.85 %        9.85 %       14.08%
N-70        430         11.90 %       11.90 %      16.66%       32.14 %
The purpose of TSP loan was to address the critical parts of network and put the netvwork in easily
maintainable condition. The loan vsas subdivided into three components:
*  MBRP         - To address those pavement sections with PCI of Category 3 and 4.
*  RSP          - To address those pavement sections wlith PCI of Category 2 and 3.
X  TA           - Technical Advisory and trainring.
(NVote T Ihe category 3 is common both in .MBRP and RSP. as if was envisaged that a pavement
f category 3. if required only strengthening or overlav will be RSP project: but a section of
category 3 requiring major reconstrucnton will be placed as MBRP project.)
RSP Proiects
The RSP program covers those road sections which fall under the Category 2 and 3 of the pavement
condition survey. The objective was to improve the structural stability and strength of pavement by means of
overlay or surface treaturient along vith shoulder rehabilitation. This program was done in five phases i.e.
Rounds 1. IL. Il. IILA and IV. As a result, a total of 59 projects covering 400 kms on different routes and
provinces were prepared as is showvn in Annexure VIII. The details of RSP contracts in the three rounds is
attached in Annexure 1.
MBE,RP Proiects
For IMIBRP projects, in addition to pavement condition survey, the existing condition of bridges, culverts and
protectionldrainage works were also assessed. For all the defined sections and structures, economic analvsis
was also carried out.
MBRP project were consequently divided into three phases I, [I and III for which No Objection Certificate
(NOC) from the World Bank was obtained prior to floating of the tenders. Under MBRP contract packages,
a component was also reserved to address the reconstruction of structures and repair of drainage systems,
amounting to 15 % of loan amount. During the course of implementation, 14 nu-nber of bridges were
constructed along with 16 number of structure repair schemes i.e. culverts. causeways, drains etc. to fulfill
the requirement of loan agreement. In total, 32 LCB and 2 ICB contracts were awarded the impact of which
can be seen in Annexure IX. The details of MlBRP contracts in the three rounds is attached in Annexure 11.



TSP Loan Final Report
2.4 DESIGN FEATURES
As mentioned-earlier, the initial rounds of hBRP and RSP schemes were defined on the basis of surveys
and studies carried out in 1989-90 and prelirninary design was done by management consultants based on
NHA recommended design codes and practices. The later stages of contracts were designed through
local consultants. In the initial rounds, a number of studies on Transport sector in Pakistan were used as
reference and background material which include the following:
* A National Transport Plan, The Islarnic Republic of Pakistan. by the Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA), May 1983.
*  Vehicle Operating Costs, NTRC - 79, January 1986. The relationships used in the study are
based on Transport Road Research Laboratory (TRRL), Kenya study.
•  The Data Reference Book, National Highway Board. March 1987.
•  The Study of National Transport Plan. JICA, March 1988.
Desisn feature for MIBRP Packages
In addition to pavement condition survey. DCP test (Dynamic Cone Penetrometer) and IRI (International
Roughness Index) surveys were also carried out. The DCP tests were done @ 5 kilometer, whereas IRI
survey was done on each I kilometer. Based on these surveys, different sections of highways were
defined in MBRP schemes. For selected sections. tests survey of Benkleman Beam were also carried out.
The result from the tests were used to asses the existing structural strength of pavement and sub-grade
strength.
Traffic studies from NTRC (National Transport Research Center) were needed for traffic projections and
analysis. The Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) were based on VOC sub-routine of the World Bank
Highway Maintenance & Design Model (HDM-III). The design of pavement was based on AASHTO
Guide for Design of Pavement Structures (1972 & 1986). The pavement design is based on 10 year
design life. A number of reports were published by PMU & NHB which were also used as basis for
engineering judgment. These reports were based on field experience of pavement behavior of already
constructed sections.
Design features for RSP Packaaes
The RSP package included:-
a)     Periodic overlays of asphaltic concrete;
b)     Pavement strengthening consisting of aggregate base course plus TST; and
c)     Resurfacing consisting of double and triple surface treatments.
RSP is continuation of periodic maintenance projects and also include such sections which need asphaltic
overlay, with base course already laid. For overlay design, 10 year design life has been adopted. Traffic
studies from NTRC were used for traffic projections and analysis. The design of pavement was based on
AASHTO guide for design of Pavement Structures (1972 & 1986). All the asphaltic overlays were
preceded by regulating course in those sections where the existing pavement roughness exceeded 5000
mm/krn.



TSP Loan Final Report
Design Feature of iVIBRP 7004
The MNIBRP 7004 project covers construcion of 30 Kms of additional carriageway on N-5 between Sahiwval
and Okara, from Km 1113 to 1143. The alignment of the additional carriageway is such that it is northbound
carriageway for 1st 6 kmis, then covers the existing carriageway and is southbound for 12 kilometers, after
which it switches back to southbound direction. The project also includes construction of two bridges on
distributories. which were sub-let in a separate contract MBRP 7004A.
The project site consists of water logged area in which special treatnent was done by laving a granular
material platform of 300 mm thickness below the embankmnent lavers. The actual pavement construction
consisted of 100 mm granular sub base. 200 mm aggregate base course, 190 mm asphaltic base course and
90 mm asphaltic measuring course. 2.0 meter %vide shoulder was provided on one side, and a median was
placed on the side of existing carriagevay. In the other case, 1.0 meter shoulder was provided in front of the
median and barrier. The shoulder are covered by DST in each instance.
T%pical crosssection of the construction is attached in the annexure ,.
Desi2n Features of MtBRP 7005
Thc contract INIBRP 7005 is one of the two contract of MBRP progranmne for which International Contracts
Bidding (ICB) vas carried out. For these projects. the World Bank financing portion is 70% and that of GOP
is 30%. The original project of cost Rs. 588 mnillion, consisted of 160 kms of individual road lengths between
Wadh(320) and Kalat(550) on N-25. The road w%as to be 6.1 meters wvide with 1.5 m. shoulder on both sides.
No particular detail was given to structures.
The adjacent project of road from Surab(478) to kalat(550) was awarded to Iranian contractors which mainly
consisted of rehabilitation of existing road to intemational standard of 7.3 m wide pavement and 2 m.
shoulders on both sides. It was decide in a review by GOP and the World Bank that the contract MBRP 7005
will be a rehabilitation project of 160 kms continuos stretch between Wadh and Surab. For this purpose, a
major variation Xwas carried out through V.0. No. 2 amounting to Rs. 1265 million. Other variation orders
covered soil investigations. X idening of structures and reconstruction of about 200 culverts w ith new bridges
at some locations after hydrological studies were carried out. Thus the revised contract value to date is Rs.
1847 million.
The initial design of overlay w,as replaced by newv asphalt pavement wvith wide surface and shoulders. An axle
load survey and traffic count wias carried out in April, 1993. Pavement was designed for 10 year design life
based on AnalMtical Empirical Method. The 5 year design traffic was 2.9 milLion ESAL. The top bound
lavers were designed for 5 year design life and lower unbound layers wvere designed for 10 year period. The
actual construction consists of tvpicallv 150 mm natural subbase layer, 150 mm of aggregate base laver, 70
mm of asphaltic base course and 40 mm of asphaltic wearing course. The typical cross section is attached in
annexure XIII.
2.5    CONSTRUCTION SEQUENCE
The concept of stage construction (planned rehabilitation) was adopted for rehabilitation of pavement
structures on national network where applicable. This concept is most suitable in minimizing the severe
damaging effects of:-
*      Un-regularized heavy truck traffic.
*      Climatic conditions of southem regions of Punjab and Sin&h. and
*      Enhancing the life cycle and economic returns.



TSP Loan Final Report
Further. the stage construction is also adopted to avoid the premature failures of pavements common in
Pakistan. The planned rehabilitation comprises of following tvo stages:-
STAGE I
This consists of placement of crushed aggregate base course or water bound macadam with application of
triple surface treatments and shoulder rehabilitation and strengthening OR placement of Asphaltic Base
course after pavement shaping.
STAGEII
Construction will be carried out after the pavement has been subjected to truck n-affic loading in all climatic
conditions for 3-5 years w%ith rectification of localized failures like settlements, damaged structure failures,
erosions etc. This construction consists of asphaltic layer and shoulder strengthening with sub-base class B
material.
Triple surface treatment (TST) was also recommended in pavement construction wherever aggregatelbase
course *was laid on existing pavements. This resulted in enhancement of the performance period of pavement,
due to the fact that aggregate basefWBM  in combination with TST makes strong laver of bitumen
penetration macadam. Further, the placement of asphaltic laser in stabilized roads, after 3-5 vears of initial
construction. vill produce the desired results of riding qualitv.
A few projects were aimed at stage construction with stage II construction to be executed in later vears.
Ho\%ever. on some of these projects, the increasing traffic load and high axle loading caused increase in
pavement in pavcment deterioration. Consequently, these projects were revised and scope of works xxas
extended to proVide adequate pavement by overlays etc.
2.6    PRE-QUALIFICATION AND TENDERING
One of the objectives of the MBRP and RSP works was to imnprove and upgrade the construction capabilities
of local contracting industrv. Most of the contractors had experience with provincial departments and relied
mainly on labor intensive construction. Since the NIBRP and RSP works required construction standards
conforming to international specifications and material suitabilitv requirements, Qualitv Assurance svstems
"xere established and it wvas intended to bring the working capabilit of contractors in tune wvith stringent
quality standards of construction.
It was considered essential that different contractors be prequalified and shortlisted in such a manner that,
depending on their capabilitv and experience, are able to perform contracts of different monetarv values i.e.
prequalification based on ability to take up contracts of the value of Rs. 10. 15. 20, 25. 30 and above 40
million. For assessment and evaluation of contractors, folloring. informration was required:
*  Overall experience as Contractor.
*  Machinery available.
*  Financial Capabilitv.
*  Classification with Pakistan Engineering Council.
*  Experience wkith NHA as contractor.
*  Engineers and other technical staff.
*  Maximum arnount of works executed in firmn's historv.



TSP Loan Final Report
Each of the above information was received and scoring was done to categorize the contractors. In the
folloving tables is the summarv of prequalified contractors in each province and financial capability in the
sear 1990-91 and 1995-96, which highlights the improvements in local contracting industry.
Pre-Qualified Contractors in 1990-91
Upto      Upto      Upto      Upto       >          Sub
Province     Rs. 10    Rs. 20    Rs. 25    Rs. 30    Rs. 30      Total
million    miUion   million    million    million
Punjab           6         6         5         5         Is         37
Sindh            7         6         6         0         3          22
NNFP             10        2         1         0         6          19
Balochistan      13        4         4         3         4          28
GranadTotal     36        I& X      1 Et6  J77s.',; C,2 -7t-  Q
Pre-Qualified Contractors in 1995-96
Upto      Upto      Upto      Upto       >         Sub
Province     Rs. 10    Rs. 20    Rs. 25    Rs. 30    Rs. 30     Total
million    million    million    million I miUion l_ __
Punjab          32         22        9         10       27         100
Sindh            6         8         5         4         3          26
.NVFP       |   27         4         5         0         1 1        47
Balochistan     31         16        10        6         10         73
Gr!andTotl |   96 '             T   2-        20    t';            246
2.7  COMPOSITE SCHEDULE OF RATES AND MATERIAL STUDIES REPORT
One of the major components for contract preparation is engineering estimates for civil works. In order to
present a realistic estinmte based on local rates for material, manpower and machinerv, it was envisaged to
establish guide line rates for works.
For this purpose, the local consultant firm Mls SAMPAK Intemational (Pvt.) were engagred to prepare
Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR) for all types of highway works i-e maintenance and construction
and/or rehabilitation. These rates were prepared for the four provinces and for each district in province and
presented in four volumes. The first four volumes of CSR were prepared in 1990 and revised in 1991. After
elapse of about three years, due to major changes in market prices of labor, materials and other construction
related commodities, it was decided to revise the CSR. Consequently, the contract for revision was awarded
to M/s SANMPAK in August. 1994 and the CSR was published in 1995 under the title "Composite Schedule
of Rates - 1995".
For the main road construction building materials i.e. sand and aggregate, a materials survey was also
conducted by Mls SAMPAK. The purpose of the this survey was to investigate the availability of suitable
materials in all regions of Pakistan and highlight the location of main quarries in each province. For this
purpose all regions wvere investigated and data regarding each material and logging was collected. These
reports were prepared in nine volumes and were published in 1990, covering all four provinces. These reports
%vere not reVised afterwvards as the revised CSR also incorporated the availability of materials in each district
and this was illustrated by the varning rates.



TSP Loan Final Report
2.8  QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM
As per the World Bank requirements. NHA appointed local consultants in each region for the quality
assurance of executed projects under TSP Loan. The main services as required from these consultants
included :_
a)     To provide independent testing services for qualitv assurance during pre-construction and
construction phase according to the specifications.
b)     To provide technical advice and support to NHA field staff and contractors in approving the rnaterial
quarries and sources of material manufacture.
c)     To provide technical advice and support to NHA field staff in conducting routine qualitv tests at
project site.
M4aterials Testing Laboratories:
In order to monitor the qualitv of works and for providing independent testing facilities to both the contractor
and the consultants, field materials testing laboratories were initiated in December, 1991 for a period of one
X ear initiallv. Aftenvards, an extension of two vears w as also awarded for services upto December. 1994. For
this period. the staff services were charged to TSP loan and the actual laboratory fees were chargeable to the
contractors through the running bills.
The consultants were instructed to base the equipment at such locations, from where it wvas convenient to
exercise the quality control program for all MBRP and RSP projects scattered all over the national highwvay
net\ork. Initiallv. Iaboratories at followsing stations were established.
*      Quetta (Balochistan)    *      D.G.Khan (Punjab)      *      Hderabad (Sindh)
Ravalpindi (Punjab)           Lahore (Punjab)        *       Bahawalpur (Punjab)
The execution of MBRP/RSP projects was strengthened by frequent check testing of construction materials,
thcrcbv upgrading the construction sklls of the contractors and valued works. In addition, these laboratories
also aided in irmprovement of the know-how and technical capabilities of staff. whether it be from client.
consultant or contractor.
Local Resident Engineers
In the four provinces. four (04) Resident Engineers(R.E) were engaged to supervise the works in each
province. Their services engaged in May. 1991 and after the completion of a rrmajor portion of projects i.e.
first three rounds of MBRP and RSP projects. were terminated in December, 1994. After that pericd, the
NHA field staff consisting of Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and Inspectors supervised the works. For
some of structural contracts, consisting of piled foundations and prestressed girders, local consultants wvere
engaged on case to case basis, in order to assist the NHA field staff. The services of all these consultants were
charged to Technical Assistance component of the loan.



TSP Loan Final Repor
CHA PTR 3                  -                .
3.1    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AS MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
During the implementation of the Highway Maintenance Improvement Program, it became very apparent that
the deferred maintenance on sections of the national highway network had to be the subject of an extensive
reconstruction. re-strengthening and rehabilitation works program.
The maintenance improvement consultants had identified each and every section that was beyond
maintenance through the application of the Maintenance Intervention level system (MIL). This identification
process had become very necessary when it w as apparent that insufficient maintenance allocations were
rendered far less effective by being utilized more and more for necessary, new or reconstruction works.
Consequently, the quantum of deferred maintenance increased manifold w,ith increasing kilometers of such
sections which were bevond maintenance scope of works.
The management of the program was under a separate combined team of consultants (both foreign and local)
with NI-A key project staff. The team and programn was coordinated under the nominated incharge of NHA
The staff organization chart of NHA management team. responsible for execution of MfBRP/RSP projects is
placed at Anncxurc IV. The staff organization chart of primary consultant Ni/s Karmpsax Intemational A/S is
placed at Annexure V.
Obiectives
TIhe objectives of the Management Consultants was to give effect to the NHA desire to carrv out a one-time
program of reconstruction. rehabilitation. resurfacing and strengthening of those sections of national
himhwaavs. that are deteriorated beyond ordinary or periodic maintenance by:
a)     Utilizing the currently pre-qualified indigenous NHA contractors to carry out all * orks of
reconstruction and rehabilitation identified as part of the MBRP and RSP package.
b)     Ensuring that the local contractors perform satisfactorilv and increase their capabilities by
placing all the smnaller localized works in an overall contract package under the control and
responsibility of principal consultant. M/S Karnpsax International A/S.
c)     Identif.ing all the sections for the program on a yearly basis using the MBRP/RSP
prioritization study recommendations as a guideline to select links for detailed analysis and
then using accepted pavement evaluation techniques, including the NMIL svsterm, to identify
specific works and calculating the Benefit/Cost ratio of these. works.
d)     Ensuring that the necessarv field organization is in place at the end of the reconstruction
phase to carrv out the normal routine and periodic naintenance program which will enable
NHA to maintain the rehabilitated sections in the new re-built condition.
3.2  MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS WORKS PROGRAM
Consultants services were confined to the following activities.
Phase I - Construction Contract'Startup.
*  Review the Contractor's work schedule and planned activities for conformance with the NHA's objectives
and propose revisions as required.



TSP Loan Final Report
*  Review contractor's prepared lists of proposed plant sites, disposal sites, storage sites, site offices,
facilities to be provided for the local contractor, Adminisaion Consultants' staff and the narnes and
contractor information of the local Sub-Contractor staff responsible for each site. Propose revisions as
necessary.
*  Review the Contractor supplied laboratory facilities to determiine their capability to carry out the
specified mnaterials testing requiremnents. Propose revisions as necessary.
* Prepare an overatl construction supervision program outlining staff designations, lines of responsibility.
reporting procedures and duties of all NTHA local Consultant and Management Consultant staff involved
in the program.
Phase 11 - Construction Supervision
*  Assist the local Contractor Administration Consultants in developing procedures for checking the
contractors' setting out of the wvorks
* Review and evaluate the local Contract Administration Consultants' procedures and performance in
terms of the requirements of the contract specifications and accepted engineering practices for
construction supervision. quality control testing and contract administration of civil and highway
engineering cworks.
Provide sufficient financial and phvsical progress monitoring and controls through reporting procedures
which follow accepted practices for civil and highw-ay engineering Nvorks.
Phase III - Planning of Succeeding Years Proeram
*  Assist NHA in selecting network links of detailed review based on the priorities established in the
MBRPIRSP Prioritization Study. distribution of work within the country. viable contract packages and
other ongoing road and structure rehabilitation program.
*  Assist the PMU cell of the NHA in planning and executing a pavement evaluation study of all links to be
included in the subsequent sear's priorities.
*  Assist NI-HA in the preparation and evaluation of a planned program of works for the subsequent years.
based on the pavement evaluation study data and accepted pavement evaluation and analvsis techniques
including the MIL system.



TSP Loan Final Report
r                                             .   ; i --- i -i. -    ...... - -; - -:-: - - ....... - .- - - ; - i .---;i-i.i -i--- -.   . . . . .
CHPTER 4`-
~~_- .. .     . .--.  NV4.
4.1    JUSTIFICATION OF PROJECTS
For the RSP and MBRP projects, the econornic analysis focused mnainly on the benefits accrued to the road
user in terms of reduction in vehicle operatng costs (VOC) and travel timne For thiis purpose, in the initial
studv. a number of documents were used as reference which included the JICA Study (Japanese Intemational
Cooperation Agency) of 1983, VOC Tables published by NTRC(National Transport Research Center) from
1979 to 1986: and JICA Studc of 1988.
For calculation of VOC. the subroutine from the third version of World Bank Highway Design and
MNlaintenance model (HDM-III) was used. For the purpose of conformity of various features of I)ID-III
model. the composition of traffic -was armended to conform to the existing traffic patterns in Pakistan. The
vehicles were divided into Light. Medium and Heavy categories. For the other components i.e. vehicle load,
utilization, interest rate and value of passenger time were based on the JICA study of 1988.
For development of road maintenance costs, the findings of Kampsax were used to define the four categories
to calculate the cost of upgrading each category . These categories have been explained in section 2.2 earlier.
Tihese are again described delow.
C;ite<-orN 
Any seg,nent of road vith a surface roughness value exceeding 5000 mm/Krn and vith potholes/patches < 15%. but
othernise in good condition. Pavement condition Index (PCI) = 40 to 49.
CatC'_9o 2
.Am segment of road meeting the requirements of category 1. but ixith potholes and/or patches exceeding 15% and
below 60% (15 - 60 %) of Lhe roadway surface area. Palveent condition Index PCI = 50 to 59.
Ctezonr3
Any segment of road where the roadway surface area is more than 60% cracked and the surface is beginning to
disintcgrate. Pmaement condlition Inldex PCI = 60 to 69.
Citc,_ory 4
Ain segment of the road wNhere a paved road-'ay surface is nonexistent or is in an advanced state of disintegration.
Pmvemient condition Indleex PCI  70.
Thle analvsis investment period was set at ten years and salvage values calculated for this period. For
prnoritization of roadway links, a two step process was followed.
First step: Economnic analysis of each segment was done to calculate the reduction in VOC
resulting due to the upgrading of that segmnent. The primary criterion used to prioritize the segment
wvas that of Beneftt/Cost ratio. In addition, Internal Rate of Return alRR) w-as also calculated but
,was given the secondary criteria status. For calculation of B/C ratio and IRR, 10 vear analyvsis
period and 14% interest rate wNas used.
Second Step: Non-economic factors were used to indicate the importance of highway links. These
factors mainly reflect the relative importance of a road segment and are given below.
*  Travel desire lines and trends:
*   lntemational links for trade:
*  Access to major communities:
*   Benefits by improving the geometry and safety of roads e.g. vvider shoulders.



TSP Loan Final Repon
Both of these steps were used for ranking of highNways without breaking the highways into links. Table 4.1
(below) shows the links on national highways determiined to be most economical for consideration in MBRP
and RSP projects with B/C ratios exceeding 1.5 or more.
Recommended Ranlirie of Hi2hwav Links
Combined    Highway           Link        Economic       Other
Ranking                                   Ranldng      Factors
I __________  __________   _______________   __________   R anking
I          N-5      Km 0 to 1698          2            I
2          N-25     Km 0 to 740           1.8          2
3          N-55     Krn  to 178           3            5
4          N-70     Km 0 to 115           4            8
5          N-55     Km 936 co 1253        5            5
6          N-65     Km 0 to 380           6            5
7          N-50     Km 0 to 161           7            5
8          N-40     Km O to 78            10           4
9          N-55     Km 717 to 795         9            5
to         N-SO     Km 463 to 528         11           5
11         N-55      Km 178 to 445        12           5
12         N-70      Km 360 to 430        13           8
Table 4.1
4.2    PROJECTS DETAILS WITH FINANCIAL STATUS
The activities in the 59 Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP) contracts - 34 Nlaintenance Backlog
Reduction Program (iMfBRP) contracts - and 17 contracts for 1992 Flood Restoration Project are detailed
as per Annexures 1. 11 & III.
Summary
(cis on June 30. 1997)
All RSP Contracts                  Rs. 890.762 Million
All MfBRP Contracts         R:      s 2,839.-83 MVillion
All 1992 - FDRP Contracts         PRs. 148.234  iAlfllion
Total                       Rs. 3,878.234   ?r'illion



TSP Loan Final Report
RSP Proiects
A total of 59 projects were awarded under RSP package initially and were prepared in three phases. Later,
due to availabilitv of Pakistan Rupee component resulting from devaluation of Rupee against US dollar, two
further rounds of contracts were awarded. as per following details
Round          Total          Cost                        Remarks
Contracts   (Rs. Million)
Round 1             17          297.554      14 contracts completed. 3 contracts terminated.
Round II            18          284.600      17 contracts completed. I contract terminated.
Round III           10          167.461      10 contracts completed.
Round 111-A         9            41.231      9 contracts completed.
Round IV            5            99.916      5 contracts awarded and work is ongoing.
Total          59           890.762
The details are all rounds of RSP are placed at Annexure I.
NIBRP Proiects
A total of 32 projects were awarded under MBRP package and were prepared in three phases. Of these, two
contracts \were tendered internationally and wNere underaken by international contractors. The details are
attached belo.-
Round          Total          Cost                          Remarks
I_____________ LContracts   (Rs. Million) L
Round I              1            83.901     9 contracts completed. I contract terminated.
[ourld 11     _                   200.189     9 contracts completed.
| Round III          I 1l        214.555     3 contracts completed and work is ongoing on 8
l    l            l               l ~~~~~~~~~~~contracts._
ICB Contracts        2          2.340.838    Both contracts completed.
Total           32         2,839.483
The details are all rounds of 19LBRP are placed at Annexure II.
1992 - Flood Damaaes Restoration Proiects - TSP Loan Utilisation
During the seasonal monsoon rains of 1992. Pakistan experienced exceptionally heavv rains resulting in
w\idespread floods all over the countrv. Tnis flood peak resulted in considerable loss to crops, life, road
infrastructure and public property. National Highway Authority immediatelv launched highway restoration
programmes to repair the damaged sections of national network.
After the floods. the Govemment of Pakistan was also assisted by donor agencies for financing of
rehabilitation schemes, under separate loan agreements from IDA and Asian development bank (ADB). The
retroactive period for these loan financed projects was fixed as September 10, 1992. Some of the
expenditures on the national highways were incurred iumediately after the 1992 rains and fell out of the loan
effective period. It wmas, thus. agreed by the World Bank that these expenditures can be financed through on-
going loan agreement TSP LN-324 1.
For this purpose. 17 projects wvere included in RSP and 2 projects(comprising of 3 bridges) were included in
iNIBRP scheme. The summnarv of these projects is given below and details are placed in Annexure Ill.



TSP Loan FLnal Reporf
Description                   No. of          Cost
Contracts     (Rs NMillion)
1992 - FDRP Schernes financed under RSP        17           39.045
1992 - FDRP Schernes financed under MBRP       2            109.189
Total         19           148.234
PROJECT STATUS
The funancial status of civil works for MBRP. RSP and 1992 - FDRP contracts is attached at Annexure VI.
FINANCIAL STATUS
The financial status of MBRP and RSP contracts including the civil works, claims submitted,
reimbursements in US dollars along with allocation for technical assistance and committed funds is attached
at Annexure VII.
LOAN UTILIZATION
a)     Original loan amount                 :      US $ 77.5 Million
Additional from Railway Component           US $ 11.5 Million
Total           .       US S 89.0 Miflion   i
b)     Loan Utilized upto 30.06.1997               US5 79.53 Million
c)     Perccntage Utilized                  :      89.4 %
d)     Allocation for 5th Highw%ay Project         US S 2.10 Million
c)     Allocation for Equipment             :       US S 1.13 Million
4.3   IMPACT & ACHIEVEMENT OF MBRP/RSP PROJECTS
The main essence of formulating a project of road rehabilitation was to bring the national highway network to
the as-built condition, so that the recurrent maintenance are rendered effective and wvithin the financial
capability of INHA. On the other hand, the road user benefits will occur, which include savings in VOCs,
increase in cargo. passenger and traffic safet and saving in travel time of the road user.
Another main impact of NMBRP/RSP project has been employment generation. Except for two major
International ICB contracts, all contracts under MBRP and RSP schemes were implemented through local
contractors of medium to high repute and capability.
As the contracts were both machinery operated as well as labor intensive, this resulted in direct impact on
creation of job opportunities. The overall impact of raising the standards of contracting industrv is
appreciable. as can be seen from the development of contracting industr, in far flung areas of Pakistan as N-
40. N-O0 etc.



TSP Loan Final Report
The physical achievements under the RSP and MBRP programs have been substantial. Of the 392.5
kilometers of the national highways in the four provinces included in the RSP program, about 384.5
kilometers have been repaired and strengthened. A total of 59 RSP contracts have been awvarded and
completed. The costlkm of the RSP program is estimated at about Rs. 2.01 million. The details of lengdh of
road improved in RSP contracts is attached in Annexure Vm, including the route-wise and province-wise
breakdown.
30 minor MBRP (LCB) contracts for about I1  kilometer pavernent plus several bridges with an estimated
completion cost of about Rs. 498.6 million have been awarded and are now 82% complete. All II1 km of
roads in the minor MBRP program have been rehabilitated by June 30, 1996 at a cost/lan estimated to be
about Rs. 2.15 million. Rehabilitation of 16 drainaae related structures . mostly bridges of medium size has
been completed.
2 maior NIvBRP (ICB) contracts for reconstruction and nexv construction of about 190 kilometer pavement
ith an estimated completion cost of about Rs. 23 40 million have been awarded and are now 100% complete.
All 190 km of roads in the major ICB MBRP program have been rehabilitated by June 30, 1996 at a costlan
estimated to be about Rs. 12.30 million. The details of length of road improved and structures improved or
rehabilitated in MIBRP contracts is attached in Annexure [X. including the route-wise and province-wise
breakdown.
T'he impact of the RSP and MBRP projects has been significant in saving and extending the life of badlv
deteriorated sections of national highway pavements and in reducing road transport costs. In Punjab-South,
%%here the existing single carriage-way wvith daily traffic of some 9.000 vehicles were on the point of total
failure. under the RSP the existing pavement was strengthened and can be overlaid and further strengthened
with Asphaltic Concrete when the bearing capacity and strength of the pavement has been much improved.
The completed MERP bridges on the N-5 in Punjab North have increased road capacity and improved road
safety.
Since the RSP and minor NIBRP contracts were done by local contractor. the project has given a
considerable boost to the development of the domestic contracting industry. It has also helped in raising the
construction standards. and familiarization wsith internationally accepted contracts conditions and material
specifications.



Annexure I
Details of RSP Contracts



RSP Round I Contracts
*__________ _   June,  1
Contract No. Route   Reaches           Contractor            Contract      Completion      Payment        Date of    Original      Revised
No.    Km/Km                                    Amount           Cost          Todate        Award      Date of      Date of       RemarO
(Rs)           (Rs)           (Rs)                  Completion   Completion
RSP 7101    N-5   1291/1298 M/s Moderate Builders          11.208,544,00   43.916,498.78    43,916.498.78   04-07-91    25-07-92  31-12-93     Complet
RSP 7102    N-5   1307/1320 M/s Khalid Rauf & Co.          18,196,600.00   67,598,158.35    67.598.158.35   15-05-91    05-06-92  20-07-93     Complet
RSP 7103    N-5   1550/1565 M/s Sadduilah Khan & Bros.     17,698,950.00    20.482,470.34    20,482.470.34   15-05-91    30-04-92  30-04-93    Complet,
RSP 7104    N-5   982/1006  M/s Sarwar & Co.               11,537,000.00   3,054,298.66   3,054.298.66   11-04-91    30-04-92                  Terminati
1045/1063                                                                                                                 _
RSP 7105    N-5    205/215  M/s Sachal Engg.               11,405,892.00    18.445,617.22    18,445,617.22   15-05-91    05-06-92  30-06-92    Complelt
RSP 7106    N-5    215/220  M/s Altaf Hussain Bhughio      5.385,200.00    6,390,233.00   6,390,233.00   07-05-91    27-05-92    27-05-92      Complet
RSP 7107    N-5    240/245  M/s Nek Mohd. & Co.            5,782,740.00    6,304,204.50   6.304,204.50   15-05-91    04-06-92    04-06-92      CompletE
RSP 7109   N-55      4/19    M/s Al-Hussainy               9,954.428.00    7,074.760.35   7,074,760.35   20-05-91    10-06-92     .           Terminat8
RSP 7109T   N-55     4/19    M/s Niaz Mohd, & Co.          12,768,677.00    10,642,246.40    10,642,246.40   17-02-92    06-06-92  30-06-93    Completr
RSP 7110   N-65     10/25   M/s Qalandri Const.            8,013,540.00    2,576,308.60   2,576.308.60   07-05-91    28-05-92                 Terminate
RSP 7111   N-25    690/708  M/s Qasim Khan                11.004,750.00    12,325,935.45    12,325.935.45   27-04-91    16-04-92  30-06-93     Complete
RSP 7112   N-65    350/380  M/s Liaqat Ali Kurd           12,966,440.00    8,118,553,60    8,118,553.60   19-05-91    10-06-92   31-12-93      Complelt
RSP 7113   N-40    190/200  M/s Bashir Ahmed               4,835,100.00    10,879,524.51    10,879,524.51   11-04-91    01-05-92  30-10-92     Completr
RSP 7114   N-40    200/230  M/s Rakshani Builders          7,129,800.00    18,868,829.01    18,868,829.01   09-05-91    30-05-92  30-04-93     Complete
RSP 7115   N-40    230/240  M/s Haii Wadera Yaqoob         4,966.400.00    4,644,944.09   4,644.944.09   05-05-91    26-05-92    25-07-92      Complete
RSP 7116   N-50    485/531   M/s Gul Const. Co.            14,732,080.00   21,494,390.48    21,494,390.48   15-05-91    06-06-92  04-09-92     Complele
RSP 7117   N-55    914/926  M/s Mian Nisar Gul            16,819,660.00   34,737,154.11    34,737,154.11   15-05-91    06-06-92  04-09-92      Complete
TOTAL (Rs)          184 405,801.00  297,554,127.45   297,554,127.45
RSPROUND.wq I



RSP Round 11 Contracts
June, 19'
Contract No. Route   Reaches             Contractor              Contract      Complet on        Payment        Date of     Original      Revised
No.     Km/Km                                      Amount           Cost            Todate        Award       Date of       Date of        Remarks
(RAs)          (Rs)             (Rs)                   Completion    Completion
RSP 7108    N-5    457-483   M/S IMAM BUX AND CO              24.698,129.00    28,183,927.80    28,183,927.80    22-6-92  13-07-93      10-05-94       Completec
RSP 7119    N-5    1670-1690 M/S NASRULLAH JAN & INAMUL    12,381,528.00    13.372,283.00    13,372,283.00   23-05-92    22-05-93       30-04-94       Completed
RSP 7123A    N-5    563-585   M/S ANWAR & CO.                  15.925,370.00    14,013.260.90    14,013.260.90   02-12-93    23-06-94    23-06-94      Completed
RSP 7123B    N-5    585-606   M/S ABDUL HAFEEZ AND CO         34,083,178.00    38.201,318.57    38,201.318.57   22-09-93    13-04-94     30-06-94      Completed
RSP 7124    N-5    608-940   M/S ZAKRIA CONST,                12,577,407.00    1,189,540.00    1,189,540.00   26-04-92    30-05-93      30-05-93      Terminated
RSP 7124T    N-5    608-940   M/S RAZA AND CO.                13,298.855.00    13,751.238.13    13,751,238.13   28-04-93    31-12-93     31-12-93      Completed
RSP 7125    N-5    735-745   M/S FARAN ENTERPRISES            12.146,830.00    11,240,330.39    11,240,330.39    18-10-92    31-12-93   11-04-94      Completed
RSP 7126A   N-50      28-46   M/S HAJI NOOR MOHD.              8,886,169.00    8.165,831.66     8,165,831.66   28-06-93    09-04-94      20-08-94      Completed
RSP 7126B   N-50      59-93    M/S HAJI ASMATULLAH            14,796,285.00    14.536,322.00    14,536,322.00   25-04-93    09-04-94     31-10-94      Completed
RSP 7126C   N-50    132-162   M/S GULLA KHAN                  15,096,159.00    17,008,407.80    17,008,407.80   17-04-93    09-04-94     30-08-94      Completed
RSP 7127    N-55      1101    M/S SAJJAD AND CO.               5,243,098.00    7.527,081.00    7,527,081.00   30-08-92    29-08-93      29-11-93      Completed
RSP7128    N-55       1121    M/SSAJJADANDCO.                 17.043,530.00    18,959,618.20    18,959,618.20    11-10-93    31-07-94   31-12-94      Completec
RSP 7129    N-65    270-350   M/S AHMED JAN BANGELZAI          8,758,502.00    7,824,199.08    7,824,199.08    18-10-92    18-10-93     18-10-93      Completec
RSP 7130    N-65       72     M/S SH.HAJI ALI MOHD.            2.920.500.00    3,504,637.50    3,504,637.50   29-11-93    20-09-93      15-12-93      Complelec
RSP 7133    N 70     89-92    M/S NAWAZ AND CO.               15,175,966.00    13,463,630.09    13.463,630.09   04-08-91  31-10-92      30-10-92      Completec
RSP 7136    N-5    708-725   M/S ITTEHAD ENTERPRISES          37,257,056.00    41.137,955.35    41.137,955.35   02-11-92    01-11-93    31-12-94      Completec
RSP 7137    N-5    580-603   M/S ABDUL SATTAR BAHIO           28,223.334.00    23,620,233 10    23,620,233.10   26-04-93    24-04-94    15-07-94      Completec
RSP 7139    N-50     28-160   M/S MUNAWAR KHAN JOGEZAI         9.996.288.00    8,900,528,10    8,900,528.10   03-10-92    31-12-93      31-12-93      Completec
TOTAL (Rs)           288,508,184.00   284,600,342.67   284,600,342.67 ___
RSPROUND.wql



RSP Round III Contracts
June, 19!
Contract No. Route   Reaches                                       Contract       Completion        Payment        Date of      Original      Revised
No.     Km/Km              Contractor               Amount            Cost            Todale         Award       Date of        Date of        Remarks
(Rs)            (Rs)             (Rs)                    Completion    Completion
RSP 7111A   N-25    712-724   M/S QASIM KHAN                    19,694.449,00    19,653,392.00    19,653,392.90    11-11-93   15-06-94       15-06-94       Complew
RSP 7130A   N-65        72     M/S SH. HAJI ALI MOHAMMAD.        3,100,523.00     5,334,249.89    5,334,249.89    23-11-94     14-04-94      14-07-94       Complewe
RSP 7131A   N-65    355-360   M/S ABDUL KARIM MENGAL             9,644.542.00     9,602,223.00     9,602,223.00    29-01-94    16-01-95      16-01-95       Complete(
RSP 7131B   N-65    360-365   M/S ABDUL HAMEED BANGELZA    12,553,842.00    12,553,811.00    12,553,811.00   29-01-94          28-12-94      28-12-94       Complete(
RSP 7131C   N-65    365-370   M/S LIAQAT ALI KURD               12,108,772.00    13,537,186.50    13,537,186.50    27-06-94    18-01-95      18-01-95       Complete(
RSP 7140    N-5      768-778   M/S HUSSANI CONSTRUCTION         33,884.280.00    27,165.101.69    27,165,101.69    02-02-94   22-10-94      30-09-96       Complete(
RSP 7141    N-5      725-735   M/S NADEEM & CO.                 28,550.957.22    28,550,957.22    28,550,957.22    21-02-94   12-12-94      30-06-96       Completec
RSP 7142    N-5    639-643   M/S NASEER AHMED                   11,822,947.00    11,822.947.00    11.822,947.00   02-02-94    23-08-94      31-12-94       Complete(
RSP 7143A   N-70    121-130   M/S HABIB CONSTRUCTION CO.   18.939,147.43    19,106,943.43    19,106.943.43    20-02-94        12-09-94       30-06-96       Completec
RSP 7143B   N-70    130-138   M/S MOHAMMAD NAWAZ                20,133,716.45    20,133,716.45    20,133,716.45    02-02-94   23-10-94       30-06-96       Completec
TOTAL (Rs)            170,433,176.10   167,460,528.18    167,460,529.08
RSPROUND.wql



RSP Round lll-A Contracts
June, 11
Contract No. Route   Reaches                                     Contract       Completion       Payment        Date of     Original      Revised
No.     Km/Km              Contractor              Amount            Cost           Todate        Award       Date of       Date of        Remark
(Rs)          (Rs)             (Rs)                   Complelion    Completion
RSP 7148    N-55   1108-1117 M/S MOHD. SULEMAN _ BROS.         9,405,680.00    8,755,09 85    8,755,099.85   25-12-94    24-06-95          .          Complete
RSP 7151A    N-5    1540-1565  M/S J & F CONST. CO.            3.045.230.00     3.045,230.00    3,278,237.90   28-12-94    28-05-95      30-06-96      Complelt
RSP 71518    N-5    1570-1578  M/S HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION        3.037.530.00     3,317,566.30    3,317,566.30   28-12-94    28-05-95      30-06-96      Complete
RSP 7151C    N-5    1578-1580  M/S TAMOOR SHAH CONST. CO.    4,524.110 00       4,588.333.00    4,588.333.00   28-12-94    28-05-95      30-06-96      Complete
RSP 7151D    N-5    1581-1590 M/S MALIK MOHD. IOBAL & CO.      3,955,362.80     3,955,362.80    3,955,362.80   28-12-94    28-05-95      30-06-96      Complete
RSP 7151E   N-35     80-104   M/S SAJJAD & CO.                 4.183,978.00     4,805,667.72    4,805,667.72    17-01-95   16-07-95                    Complete
RSP 7151F   N-35    104-115   MS/ OALANDAR KHAN LODIll          3.350,600.00    3,723.047.59    3,723,047.59    17-01-95   16-07-95                    Complete
RSP 7166    N-5    1585-1588  M/S FARAI-i TRADERS              5,462,099.89    6,110,893 00    6.110,893.00   18-07-95    17-01-96      30-06-96       Complete
ARSP 7167    N-5    1599-1630  M/s CONST. PROFESSIONALS        2,929,545.27    2,929,545.27    2,351,069.45   18-07-95    17-12-95      30-06-96      Complele
TOTAL (Rs)            39,894,135.96    41,230745.53    40,885,277.61
RSPROUND.wq1



RSP Round IV Contracts
June, 1'
Contract No. Route   Reaches                                     Contract       Completion       Payment        Date of     Original      Revised
No.    Km/Km               Contractor              Amount           Cost            Todate        Award       Date of       Date of        Remarki
(Rs)           (Rs)             (Rs)                   Completion    Completlon       Progrest
RSP 7161    N-65   370-378.9  M/s AL-SARWAR JAN ENT.          25,837,647.55    25,837.647.55   8.749,780.00   28-09-95    27-05-96      01-10-96           65
RSP 7162A   N-65    248-250  M/s HAJI NOORULLAH BALOCH         15.788,274.24    15.788,274.24    14,118,409.00   28-09-95    27-05-96    01-10-96       Complete
RSP 7162B   N-65   237-241.5  M/s ABDUL HAKIM BROHI            13.832,607.21    13.832,607.21    11.004,154.00   28-09-95    27-05-96    Q1-10-96       Complete
RSP 7165A   N-65    188-194  M/s A.K.B CONST. CO.              26,805.813.03    26.805,813.03    11,307,794.00   08-11-95    07-08-96    01-10-96          60
ASP 7165B   N-65    194-200  M/s HAJI HASSAN KHAN              17,651,963.87    17,651,963.87   8,769,993.00    28-09-95    27-05-96     01-10-96          60
TOTAL (Rs)            99S916 305.90    99,916,305 90    53,950,130.00 . .  --
RSPROUND.wq 1



Annexure II
Details of MBRP Contracts



MBRP ROUND I CONTRACTS
Ju
Contract    Route    Reaches                                     Contract             Completion             Payment          Date of     Original       Revisod
No.        No.      Km-Km             Contractor               Amount                  Cost                 Todate          Award       Date of        Date of        R
(Rs)                  (Rs)                 (RA)                      Completion     Completion
MBRP 7002A    N-25      0-320    M/s AL-SARWAR JAN               17,571,858.00         16,259.239,64    ,    16,259.239,64     05-08-91    26-08-92       30-03-93       Co
MBRP 70028    N-25     320-550   M/s FATEH MOHAMMAD              7,570,632.00           3.263,934.00         3,263.934.64      06-10-91    27-10-92             .        Ter
MBRP 7003A    N-35      78-142   M/s HAKAS                       33.472,034.00         27,879,869.59         27,879.869.59     22-09-91    12-10-92        15-03.93      Co.
MBRP 7003B    N-35      80-180   M/s HAKIM SONS                  7,728,340.00           8,859.78000          8,855,970.68      15-11-91    09-11-92        14-11-92      Co
MBRP 7035A    N-25      117-165   M/s SHAM LAL                   6,383,900.00           6,986.827 75         6,986.827.75      15-08-91    22-07-92       24-07-92       Coi
MBRP 70358    N-25     234-335   M/s KORA KHAN                   6,205,465.00           1,603.426.50         1,603,426.50      15-08-91    22-07-92       24-07-92       Cor
MBRP 70350    N-25     385-467   M/s SADATZEHRI                  5,761,750.00          4,656,312.55          4,656,312.55      15-08-91    22-07-92       24-07-92       Cor
MBRP 7035E    N-25     467-552   M/s TAJ BROTHERS                5.949,000.00           6,365,807.20         6,365,807.20      15-08-91    22-07-92       24-07-92       Cor
MBRP 703SF    N-25     552-610  M/s HAMEED BANGALZAI             5,877,800.00          3,473,762.72          3,473,762,72      15-08-91    22-07-92       24-07-92       Cor
MBRP7035G    N-25       610-675   M/s RAKHSHANI BUILDERS         5,768,000.00           4,552,128.22         4 552,128,22     .15-08-91    22-07-92       01-08-92       Cor
TOTAL (Rs)             102,2888779.00         83,901,088,17        83,897.279.49
MBRROUND.WQI



MBRP ROUND II CONTRACTS (LCB)
Jul
Contract    Route    Reaches                                      Contract              Completion             Payment         Date of     Original        Revised
No.        No.      Km-Km             Contractor                Amount                  Cost                 Todate          Award        Date of        Date of        Re
(Rs)                  (Rs)                  (Rs)                      Completion     Completion
MBRP 7004A     N-5    1100-1130  M/s STRONG BUILT ENT             6,021.630.00           6,28840874            6,288,408.74     07-08-93     28-02-94        28-01-94       Cor
MBRP 7006    N-35       93-160   M/s HUSNAIN CONST. CO.          53,223,864 00          57,785.319 19         57.785,319 19     21-05-93     11-06-94       30-04-95       Cor
MBRP 7006A    N-35      84-160   M/s MALIK IOBAL                  8,750,140.00          10.169.462 63         10.169,462 63      18-05-93    08-06-94        07-06-94      Cor
MBRP 7011   N-5(SB)  1555-1565  M/s GHULAM RASOOL                30,615,854.00          23,962 425 50        23.962.425 50      23-11-92     31-12-93       30-06-93       Cor
MBRP 7011A   N-5(SB)     1562    M/s HAKIM SONS Pvt. Ltd.         1,923,407.00           1.808.11032           1.80811032       23-11-91     13-01-92       28-02-92       Cor
MBRP 7011B   N-5(SB)  1555-1565  M/s NAZIR & CO.                   630,000 00             634.671.00           634.671 00       24-08-92     14-09.92       31-10-92        Con
MBRP7012   N-5(NB)  1570-1585  M/s KHOKHAR BORS.                 48.607.03400           55.876.20300         58711 66900        09-11-92     08-07-93       31-03-96       Con
MBRP 7013   N-5(NB)  1585-1590  M/s HAIDER CONST. CO             16.349,007 00          16,349.007 00         12,757,725 85     18-10-92     07-05-93       29-02-96       Con
MBRP 7014     N-5      275-292   M/s NAIK MOHAMMAD               28,903,430.00          27,315.342 09         27,315.342 09     05-06-93     26-12-93       03-01-94       Con
TOTAL (Rs)        [   195,024,366.00          200,188,949.47                                  199,433,134.32
MBRP ROUND II CONTRACTS (ICB)
Jur
f  Contract     Route    Reaches                                     Contract              Completion             Payment          Date of     Original       Revised
No.        No.      Km-Km             Contractor                Amount                  Cost                 Todate          Award        Datr. of       Date of        Rai
(Rs)                  (Rs)          ___s)                             Completion     Completion
MBRP 7004      N-5    1100-1130  M/sE.C.LC                      469,662,436.00         493,837,85700         493,837,857.00     19-07-92     19-07-94       01-10-96       Con
MBRP 7005     N 25     325-485   M/sJ& P (0) Ltd.               588,906,546.00        1,847,000 000 00      1,720,551.410.00    16-10-92    07-11-94        30-03-97       Con
i  _  _      _   _      _  _      _   _      _   _      _          ,__        _          .__         _           ._ _______
TOTAL (Ra)            1,058,568,982.00       2,340,837,857.00      2,214.369,267.00
MBRROUND.W01



MBRP ROUND III CONTRACTS
Jun
rContract    Route    Reaches                                    Contract             Completion             Payment          Date of     Original       Revised
No.        No.      Km-Km             Contractor               Amount                  Cost                 Todate         Award        Date of        Date of        Rer
___________                                                          (Rs)                   (Rs)                  (Rs)                    Completion      Completion
MBRP 7016     N-5      1282/2   M/s SHIABDUR RAZZAQ & CO.       19,998,230.00         19,998,230.00         19,014,466.00     18-07-95     17-07-96       01-09-96       On-
MBRP 7017    N-55      115611   Mls MIAN NISAR & CO.             2.991,870.00          2.991,870.00          2,991,870.00     28-12-94     27-06-95       01-09-96       Con
MBRP 7018     N-5      1192/2   M/s GUL2AR CONST. CO            22,851,560 00         22,851.560 00         12,400,164.00     19-09-95     18-06-96       01-10-96         6
MBRP 7019     N-5      1273/2   M/s DHANI BUILDERS              13,446,360.00          13,446,360.00        12,362,756.00     26-09-95     25-06-96       01-10-96         7
MBRP 7020     N-5      1291/3   Mis GHULAM HABIB CONST.C         7.338,034.00          7,338,034.00          3.691,559.85     21-06-95     20-03-96       30-06-96         9
MBRP 7021     N-5      1611/2   M/s MIAN NISAR & CO.             2,259,760.00          2,259,760 00          2,979,681.00     07-12-95     07-05-96       30-06-96       Con
MBRP 7022     N-5       1667    M/s NAJEEB ULLAH KHAN            2,020,350.00          2.020.350.00          310,000 00       28-09-95     27-03-96       30-06-96       Con
MBRP 7025    N-70        92     M/s ASIF CONST. CO.             27,406,386.00         27,406,386.00         6,496.572.00      16-10-95     15-10-96       15-10-96         e
MBRP 7026    N-40        88     Mis AGHA MOHD. & BROTHER        11,244,299.56          11,244,299.56         5.595,308.00     16-02-96     15-09-96       15-09-96         e
| MBRP 7052    N-65      325    M/s HIGHWAY BRIDGES & CO        37,064,262.00         34,138.000 00         47,789,520.00     14-06-95     05-07-96       01-10-96         9
MBRP 7144    N-25    675-681.2  Mls QASIM KHAN                  70.860.350.42         70.860,350 42         33,9068732.00     15-05-95     15-06-96       01-10-6        On
___________    TOTAL (Rs)  217,481,461.98  . 214,555,199.98        149,538, 628.85
MBRROUND.WQ1



List of 1992 Flood Damages Projects
a) RSP Schemes
S.,  Contract   Route      Location             Contractor           Contract   Completion    Remarks
No:    No.       No.        Km - Km                                    Cost        Cost
Million Rs.  Million Rs.
I   EMS-1 1 1    N - 5     325-333      M/S NAIK MUHAMMAD               4.780       4.458    Completed
2   EMS-1 12    N - 5     333.3-334     M/S KHAIR MUHAMMAD              2.681        2.520    Completed
3   EMS-1 13    N - 5     340.6-343     M/S MUNIR SHAIKH                8.440        8.419    Completed
4   EMS-1 14    N - 5     347.4-348     M/S JAGIRANI                    3.335        3.153    Completed
5   EMS-1 15    N - 5     348.5-352     M/S ATTA MUHAMMAD               3.148        3.144    Completed
6   EMS-1 16    N - 5     356.9-357     M/S MUNIR SHAIKH                0.826        0.692    Completed
7   EMS-1 17   N - 55      20-133       M/S MUNIR SHAIKH                3.187        2.922    Completed
8   EMS-1 18   N - 55      26 2-54      M/S OAMIR-UL-DIN                0.651        0 614    Completed
9   EMS-1 19   N - 55        49         M/S QAMIR-UL-DIN                0.239        0.107    Completed
10   EMS-120   N - 55      155-182 8     M/S QAMIR-UL-DIN                0.504       0.464    Completed
11    FD-102    N - 25      15-220       MIS SHAMLAL                     5.460       5.520    Completed
12   FD-103    N - 25    73-74/145-155   M/S S,M.C CONST.CO              4.220       4.216    Completed
13    FD-104    N - 25      334-340      MIS SADAT AKHTER                0 310       0.307    Completed
14    FD-105    N - 25      363-372      M/S M.YAQOOB                    0.460       0.454    Completed
15    FD-106    N -65       281-282      M/S QURBAN ENGR.                1.170        1.175    Completed
16    FD-107    N - 25      226-500      MiS M.YAQOOB                    0 310       0 278    Completed
17    FD-108    N - 25      318-331      M/S HAJi ABDUL HAMEED           0.600       0.602    Completed
Total (Million Rs)            40.321       39.045
b) MBRP Schemes
S   Contract   Route       Location             Contractor           Contract   Completion    Remarks
No.    No.       No.        Km - Km                                    Cost        Cost
Million Rs.  Million Rs.
1   FD-150    N - 65     Nari Bridge    M/S S.K.B                      59.246      53.849    Completed
(Km -240)
Kumbri Bridge
(Km-248)
2    FD-151     N-25    Koshak Bridge   M/S SHAIKH ALI MOHD            55.717       55.340    Completed
I          I        I   (Km-382)
Total (Million Rs)           114.963      109.189
TSPFLOOD.WQ I



Annexure - IV
NHA Project Management
(MBRP/RSP)
.. v....  p  .%.....    .. .. .%:. ...:.,
D   d.....................-M:
(Op ,t,.#e r,a:lt,.ns).. 
'...... .... --' --   - --- . .Manag .er ..  -
~~~~~~~~... ...... ........        _,:_.:..::                                          .... ;..a.;.;.;.:.;..;...........
,.:.- Direcor-'-.'g--            :-E i;: :EManage      ,-:  -  -:
( -N:: . - W ..: ..'..fPt@/RSP)' . -.-....-.-...:.3'.:- $in)... ... ......  (                           P            )
.......                  ..... t~ ..t ...)I~ ~tr:. 
-7          1   .....  .   ..  ...                                                                                    ..........
. ..   ..     ......   .. . .,..... .. ..                    ,. .;... ....... .... .. . ...... ... .              .. .     ...............    ...............-  
Maintenance field units  Maintenance field units  Maintenace field units  MaIntenance field units  Maintenance field uni ttf
Qt =efl  M   uaiI D  <         lgh       I~hW, Bss                       <                Surkur                   Mu     0 (t.Kb                      Re¢1d #Lhr
.   . ,- .......... ..... .':  ..- ..-.



qPU!S   -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ..
's'~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~. ::3flUO .0 iu4Uo l--' $0 '        
i___ _     S                 -r- -- ;;  T - ;'       'i---i .~.~;-.  >B i-_'  -  .     . :-..i
U~SO  ~~W,_ ,   :,~ 0OO ._91 _VOL X                                               e
leuoi euJ,-i           I
.-JO6eueVl.j1.3efo.J.d:.'-
S/V  4Uj  xesduwm-  S/P
1uoUwc23u-1W  su4iW4IsuoD
A, ;)inx;)uLuV



FINANCIAL STATUS
UPTO 30th June, 1997
________ ____  __ _______ Page   I   of   I
S.                      Contract       Award          Original .       Revised          Value of      Value of       Financial
No.      .                Nos.         Period          Contract        Contract           Work        Remaining       Status/
Amount          Amount             done         Works         Progress
(Mill. Rs)      (Mill. Rs)       (Mill. Rs)     (Mill. Rs)
RSP Projects
I        Round 1           17         1991-92          184.406          297.554         297.554          0.00          100%
2        Round il          18         1992-93          288.508          284.600         284-600          0.00          100%
3       Rouind Iti         10         1993-94          770,433          167.461          167.461         0.00          700%
4      Round III A         9          1993.94          39,894           41 231           40.885          0.35          100%
5       Rournd IV          5          1995-96          99.916           99.916           53.950         45.97          54%
6    RSP 1992-Flood        17         1992-93          40.321           39.045           39.045          0.00          100%
Total  RSP  (Rs. Million)                         823.478          929.807         883.495         46.31           95%
MBRP (LCB) Projects
I .      ARound I          10         1991-92          102.289          83.901           83.897         0.00           100%
2        Rousnd 11         9        1992-93 & 94       195.024          200.189          199.433         0.76          100%
3       Round III          11          1995-96         217.481          214.555          149.539        65.02           70%
4    flood Damages          2          1994-95         714.963          109.189          109.189         0.00          100%
Total LCB MBRP (Rs. Million)                       629.757          607.834          542.058         65.7     8    89%
MBRP (ICB) Projects
t  Sahiwal - Okara, N-5 (Mls ECLC)    1991-92          469.662          493.838         493.838          0.00          100%
2  Wadh - Surab, N-25 (Mls J&P)        1991-92         588.906         1847.000         1720.551        126.45         93%
Total ICB (Rs. in million)                         1058.568        2340.838         22t4.389         126.45         95%
TOTAL MBRP (ICB+LCB)                              1688.325    2948.672    2756.447   192.22                         93%
GRAND TOTAL (MBRP & RSP)   2511.803  3878.479   3639.942   238.54    94%
(Rs. in million)                     _               _                _                _            _
The World Bank is assisting the two programmes by Financing with a sharing portion of 6
40% and 20% respectively for RSP three year programme and 70% for MBRP.
PROJSTAT.WQ1



TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                                                                Annexure VIl
FINANCIAL STATUS UPTO 30th JUNE, 1997
A: Works Awarded
DESCRIPTION      SAR        BUDGET        COMPLETION                PAYMENTS                                        COMMITTED                    Plojected     ALLOCATED
IBRD Finance   Table 3.1      PC-I           COST                    (Actual)                                     (but not yet paid)             Utilisation  (IBRD Loan Funds)
Total payments     Rs       U.S $  Possible      Total amount       Rs       U.S $     U S $          U S $
made on all cont-     Millions      Escalation     committed          Millions
racts upto 30-06-97   G.O P   IBRD                as of 30-06-97    G.O.P      IBRD      IBRD           IBAD
Rs (Millions)  Rs (Millions)    Rs. (Millions)  Rs Million               Claimed               Rs (Millions)
(1)          (2)         (2a)            (2b)               (3)           (4)       (5)       (5A)          (6)            (7)       (8)        (9)          (10)
MBRP        1694 00      1489 00        2,948.672         2.756.447       885 78    65.77     311.26        503 49         407 04     6 87      72.64         72.40
($52)
a) 7004                                  493.838            493.838                             0.00          0.00          0,00        0
b) 7005                                  1,847.000         1,720.551                           300.00        426.45        330.00      6.87
c) Minor                                  607.834           542.058                             11.26         77.04         77.04
RSP        1023.00       853 00         929.807           883 495        58643      7 28      15.00         61 31         61 31                7.28           8.10
($15)
Tech Assist    252 00       110 00         272.810            202.200                  648        8.36         78.97                     1.60     8 08           8.30
($5.50)
Equipment                   4 00            7.600                                                              7.60                     1.00      1 00          0.20
($0.20)
Unailocated                 96.00                                                                                                       0.00      0 00                     |
($4 80)                             _
TOTALS       2969.00      2552.00        4,15e.889         3,842.142      1,474.21    79.53    334.62        651.37        468.35      9.47     89.00         89.00
($77 50)  1
The sum of U.S $ 7.341 million has been recovered on account of special account
Outstanding intial deposit as of 14-06-97 U.S. $ 0.159 million
tsplil wql



TSP LOAN PROJECT (LN 3241 PAK)
Length of Roads Improved (Kilometers)
Round I
Province     N-5    N-25 |N-35    N-40     N-50   N-55 j N-65    N-70 ,Total
Punjab         25                        -                   1 =   _              25
Sindh          20                                -       20      7        -       47
NWFP            -       -               4        30      10       - 6             40
Balochistan             X               40()                     _ 6              54
Total       45       8   =         40 3    30                       ____|
Round 11
Province     N-S    N-25    N-35    N-40    N-5O    N-55    N65    N-70   Ti
Punjab         20                                                        2.5    22.5
Sindh          50       -                                                         50
NWFP            6                                    -                             6
Balochiistan    -                                                                 6)0
Total       76                               60   .25 =.
Rotiiid Il1    _                                             .
Province     N-S     N-25    N-35    N-40   N-50   N-55   N-65    N-70   Total
Punijab        29                                                         16      45
Sindh           -   |       |
NWFP             -      --
Balociiistan    -15                                                               15
Totail      29  |   -                                   -    15
Rounid Ill-A
PProvince    N-5    N-25    N-35    N-40 { N-50   N-55   N-65    N-70 D Total 1
1INWFP       I       I       I        I       I       I9   I                   |9   ,
Total        - '        I    -     -      I -.
Round IV
Province      N-5     N-25    N-35    N-40   N-SO    N-55   N-65    N-70     Total
Balochlistan                                                                                19  1      119
!Total   -  - (-1--I-I',i  1Ig
N-5    N-25 [ N-35    N-40 | N-50 | N-55    N-65 | N-70 | Total
Tot;{.al1j 1501   8   j  ;-: -t0 4-0  j 0               3        7     1.5 325
Total Cost              Rs. 791 Million (Pavement Contracts only)
Cost/Km                 Rs. 2.01 Mlillion/km
PHYRSP. DOC



Physical Achievement of NIBRP Proiects
A:    Roads Improved
Round I
Province     N-S    N-25    N-35    N-40    N-50    N-55    N-65    N-70   Total
Punjab       13)                                                                1  30
NWFP            -                IX                                                18
Balochistai     -       I 99()                                                    190
Total    30   190   18    -                    - i______1                      __
Round 11
Province  lN-5    N-25    N-35    N-40    N-50   N-55    N-65    N-70   Total
Punjab          3o                                -                                30
Sindh           15 :i                                                              I   6
NWFP                             I X                                               1 
Balochistail                                                                            I
Total       45               18   .  -      -  -  -                  _   -   6:I   -   |
Grand Total                 301 Kilomiieters
Total Cost (LCB,)            Rs.  239 Million (Pavements Contracts only)
Total Cost (IC,)      :      Rs. 2,341 Million (Pavements Contracts only)
Cost/Km (LCB)                Rs.  2.15  Million/Knm  (111 Kms)
Cost/Km (ICB)                Rs. 12.30 Millioni/Km  (190 Kn7m)
[B:    Structur es Improved (Round T, 11 and H1I)
Province         Bridges        Others*
Ptinjab            7              7
Sindh              -
NWFP               5              5
Balochis.ial         2              4
Total             14              16
* Rehabilitation oJ 'Culverts ('ause,Iav s, retaining structures andi dIraining structures
Total Cost for Structtires                  Rs. 189 Million
PI'IYMBRI' DO)C



CROSS SECTION
N-S
KM  170+00(1 TO KM  !85-(s00
CONTRACT NO-M0. 7Rf 012
S H.UD E                          PALVE W71
i ErA._   ___ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
1.Item  114 dressing ai,d compacto  of berjs.
2.litem  106a removal o existing AsphalL approx. 1                                                  _ cn.
_Item  106a existino wate  bound macadam approx. 12 cm to be shfiftd to th         s    shoulder area fo, efficient drainaje.
4. Item 106a subgrade preparation.
Item 201 Granular subbase material for carra2ewav 30 cmn thick,etss shioulders     cm thick-ness com)acted in 2        cm, lavers r-o 9-%
NIDD.
6. Item 202a Cr-ushed Ag-revate base- course Class A 25. cm thickness compacted iitwo lavers to l00%c MIDID.
7. Item 3)0a Bitumious Prime Coat.
8 Item 203c, Ashaltc basel        i course Class A o       kb/m
6  Item 305a Asphaltic concrete weanne course  Ciass  A    90k/rn2 (cFciLdire mPfiivl



TYPICAL CROSS SECTION                               An            .SL.
RSP 7140 - 7141 and 7142
SHOU -DEF                         PAVEM NEZ-                        SHDU_ DE P
: .,            ~~~~2 _,     2 -            :    
i                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EX'S-HNC- RO-' S SJRrACE  I EXISTINS-' ShOU -DE;7
0    0    0           0    0    0 10                                          !i SE E7D E I A!' Ok   KC :-.L
1.      Item 114b       Dressing and compaction of berms
2.      Item 10Bc       Formation of embankment
3.      Item 201        Granular subbase material for shoulders 15cm thickness compacted to 98% MDD.
4.      Item 202a       Crushed aggregate base course Class-A 37 cm thickness compacted in two layers to 100% MDD
5.      item 302a       Bituminous prime coat (non pay item)
6.      Item 304c       Triple surface treatment
7.                      Widening up to 7.7 width (2 x 75 cm) by providing granular subbase material in the extended pot
pavement (thickness = 30 cm).



'-0'  '                                                                    -= ROW   N
~~~2o5'.  -5  - -                            S E -- _  -S.  '-=-
-: S.                                             /______,_... .                                    _-    7  A,, 
A- -  -'~ ~~~~ T-T  `Z                                                            
.   _  .                                                                                                             A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-  _.  -   F  3   '                  .    S  f                        - . z.  _-    -,  _  ,    -
- _i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:    _                                                                   Z ______- 
_~~~~~~~~~ ,'               .- .         =      I  ==_
_ H    _Cw  _ 'i  E    N  _ 
_sv    ,-r-  ..'     __  _ _   .  _  __.__.____._.__      __._   £A._~ _%S- _,  _      _ _._ _ 
*   Z    ~~~~~~~~~~ I * ~~~~~~~~~~ ' S ~~~~~~:L. .                                                                                          - OR'rE  S  A_-   -SE  2     _  f .' . -E   ~ - .i~~f   
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                          f  tvs 
_______________________                                   ~~XN-27             -                          .      b-71r-a>t  s!; )V
. ICAL
AE_                                                                                                                                 ,a.L
DEWIiL ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ' Z-  t                                                ;         *^-:    ;R--                             <'s           1'-                      tE   _w__



2000                 3650                 3650               2000                             A                kLl
1 50
5%                  2~5%                 2.5%        j        5%
, _ 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                            ,          , 
/   93% MOID                                                                                  L t  M rSUB BASE (CLASSB)
Nt= 90e_ ~~~~~~BENCHING                                     1                        4 cm A C Wearing Couse - 97% Marsha\/
NATURAL GROUND                                                                7 cm Asphaltc Base (Class B)                              500
15 cm Crushed Agg. Base (Class A) -100% MOD. AASHTO
y 15cm SUBBASE (Class A)   -98%
Existng Pavement
30 cm SUB GRADE                 -95%
Notes
PAVEMENT STRUCTURE_(STAGE-1)                                                 1 EMBANKMENT TO BE WIDENED ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS.
TOTAL             DESIGN SUB   AC. WEARING  A.C BASE   CRUSHED     SUB        EXISTING EMBANKMENT MATERIAL IS CONSIDERED SUITABLE AS
PAY               GRRADE CBR   COURSE     COURSE       AGG. BASE    BASE      FILL MATERIAL FILL MATERIAL TO BE USED FOR WDENING OR
AT 95% MDD   STAGE 1                                         RISING OF EMBANKMENT SHALL COMPLY WtTH RELEVANT SPECIFICATIONS.
BrE cm       10-15          4 cm        7cm         15 cm    40 cm    2 EXISTING BITUMEN PAVEMENT TO BE SCARIFIED AND SUITABLE SCARIFIED
46 cm        15-25          4 cm        7cm        15 cm     20cm       MATERIAL TO BE SPREAD AS FILL OR SUB GRADE AND COMPACTED BY
41 cm          > 25         4cm         7cm         15cm     15cm       HEAVY VIBRATOR EQUIPMENT TO SPECIFIED DENSITY
3 FOR PAYMENT OF ASPHALT BASE ALLOW ROLLING WIDTH AS PER
CLAUSE 203A4 1 OF THE NHA SPECIFICATION
Note:                                                                         Wadh Surab Road N-25, Contrract MBRP - 7005
DESIGN C B R: (2 x CBR SOAKED + 10 * CBR UNSOAKED) /12                        TYPICAL PAVEMENT DETAILS FIGURE FIGURE 9.1



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATlIONS
NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
fSLANWAaA
OPERATIONAL PLAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(HIGHWAY SECTOR)
TSP LOAN NO. 3241 - PAK



NATIONAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
Operational Plan
Transport Sector Proiect (Loan No. 3241-Pak)
(Highwav Component Onlv)
.0- INTRODUCTION"--
During the Period from 2nd to 14th June, 1997, a World Bank Mission Carried out a
final Supervision of the Highway component of the Transport Sector Project to assess
the over all Project's performance. As a part of the Implementation Completion Report
preparation World Bank mission asked NE-AL to develop and present an acceptable
Operational Plan for the maintenance and operation of the assets created under the
project.
The Operation Plan as enclosed describes in detail Operational Activities which will be
carried out in fu-ture to take care of the assets as developed under the TSP loan. It
includes the institutional arrangements made to maintain the assets, the detail of
maintenance Operational methodology, the financial impiication of the Project and the
level of Mlaintenance required. The plan can best be described as an indicator for
monitoring & evaluating the performance for the project. The maintenance program
proposed has already been discussed in detail by the iBRD M'Vfission with the key
personnel's of NHA and it was decided that a Draft proposal for the new
Mfaintenance Management System which will involve private sector for the
implementation  of Maintenance  Management Programme.  The  Maintenance
Programme intends to facilitate and help NHA in achieving best performance during
the design life of the asserts developed under the MBRP/RSP Programme.
... . .....
The Transport Sector Loan, TSP  Loan No.3241-PAK  was signed  between
Government of Pakistan and the World Bank on 27th July, 1990. The total amount of
Loan was US $ 184 Million. The loan was primarily divided between Ministry of



Railways and National Highway Authority, Ministry of Comrmnunications. The highway
component was about US $ 77.5 Million and latter on an amount of US S 11.5
MAillion was transferred from Railway component to Highway component, thus making
the total loan value for i-ghway Component UfS S 39 Mvillion. The original loan
closing date was June 30th 1996 which was however extended for one year duration
till 30th June 1997 so as to enable NHA to compiete the additional work arising due to
damages caused by unprecedented floods and rains.
For the whole National Highway Network a detailed technical srudy was carried out to
privatize the road sections which were beyond the scope of normal maintenance and
because of non availability of maintenance funds which created huge maintenance
backlog. Each project taken up under the MBRP/RSP Programme was identified on
the basis of Pavement Condition Survey, Pavement Roughness Survey, DCP Test,
Traffic Count and Climatic Data which were used as inputs in the MIL System.
The RSP Package included Periodic Overlay of Asphaltic Concrete, Pavement
Strengthening by Aggregate Basecourse and TST, while for MvBRP/RSP Project the
design consisted cf %sphaltic  Wearing Course, Asphaltic Base Course, Aggregate
Base Course with Granular Sub-base and also improvement of Pavement Structures,
Bridges and Culvt:rts. The design of pavement was based on AASHTO Guide for
design of pavement structures (1986 ) with a pavement design life of 10 years.
The Project selected under the MBRP/RSP Programme were prioritized on the base of
-%llL Scoring. The main objective of RSP was to improve the structural stability and
strength of pavement, while MBRP Projects were total rehabilitation/re-construction
projects for which detail Pavement Condition Survey, Economic analysis focus mainly
on the benefit cost ratio occurring to the road users in terms of reduction in vehicle
operating cost VOC and travel time. In addition to benefit cost ratio, internal rate of
return for Projects were also calculated.
1.2  NEED FORF EE O---,,,X                       I
Regardless of a size and type of project, all highway assets which are developed under
the Maintenance Backlog Reduction Programnme and Resurfacing & Strengthening
Programme (MBRP/RSP) are national assets and requires detail maintenance plan to
ensure that these assets are utilized in the best possible manner. For maintenance of all
projects a comprehensive plan is required which should include Planning, Surveying,
Data Collection, Finances, professional expertise, manpower, equipment's, materials
etc. for its maintenance. Further maintenance protects the investment and utilize it to
the expected design life extent with minimum operating cost. The comprehensive
operation and maintenance plan adopted by the National Highway Authority has
already been enlisted above.



W t3 ---. -..'.:.LST,. OR    S. TS..';: .CRE. AT.-             --H
PROJECT .'.." t-:J.M - .'         - 
A total no of 76 Projects were awarded as LCB (Local Contractor Bidding) under the
RSP Package. The detail is given as below
Round         Total         Cost                  Remarks
Contracts  (Rs. Million)
RouLnd-I        17          297.55         14 Completed, 3 terrninated
Round-l          1 8        284. 67      1 7 Completed One Terminated
Round-IllI         0         1 74.01              1 0 completed
Round-Ill A        9          41.23                9 Completed
Rounld-IV         5          99.92                5 Completed
Flood          1 7         39. 10               All completed
Package
Total          76          936.48
4     The detail of each contract executed under all RSP/NIBRP projkect is in
the Final report.



A totai no of 34 Projects were awarded as LCB (Local Contractor Bidding) under the
.MBRP Package. The detail is given as below:-
Round        Total         Cost                 Remarks
Contracts  (Rs. Million)
Round-I         10         83.90         9 Completed, I terminated
Round-II        9          200.18              All completed
Round-IE        13         241.37         3 Completed 2 terminated
Flood          2          103.19             All completed
Package
Total         34         628.64
Two Numrrber of MyBRP Contracts were awarded on ICB (Internrational Contractual
Bidding) which are as follows:-
Contract   Route       Reach    Contractor        Contract       Physical
No        No       Km - Km                     Amount         Progress
MBRP        N-5    1100-1130        M/s       533,109,244.00     100 %
7004                             E.C.L.C
MBRP       N-25      325485         M/s      1,977,170,000.00    100 %
7005                              J& P
Total    2,510,279,244.00



LUAN TSP ;3:41
LIST OF COMPLETED PROJECTS
Sr.  PROJECTS   AWARD COMPLETIO   SCHEDULE OF
No                           PERIOD              N              TRANSFER OF
PERIOD              COMPLETED
I______________   .______                                    PROJECTS
LCB                                                            Transfered to Regional
I      RSP ROIND-I           1991-92         1992-93           Maintenance Units
2      RSP ROUND-ll          1992-93          1993-94                  -do-
3      RSP ROUND-Ill         1993-94          1994-96                 -do-
4     RSP ROUND-llA         1993-94          1995-96                 -do
5      RSP ROUND-lV          1995-96          1997-98                30.12.97
6      MBRP ROUND-1          1991-92          1992-93        Transfered to Regional
I_________________    _________ _    _____M aintenance    Units
7     MBRP ROUND-II   1992-93-94              1994-96                 -do-
8      IBR P ROUND-Ill    1995-96             1996-97     |          30.6.98
lCB  MBRP 7004           1991-92         30.6.96                31.12.97
g   \  !4BRP 7004                                       l
10        MBRP 7005           1991-92         30.3.97      J          04.7.97
The Maintenance Division of National Highway Authority is responsible for carrying
out all maintenance activities on the National IHighway Network since March, 1987.
The National Highway Network comprises of Eight National Highways with a length
of 6600 Krns which include bridges and structures. lThe National Highway Authority
works as a centralized organization with Five (05) Regional offices headed bv General



For example: filling of potholes, patches using surface treatment/asphalt, bringing
shoulders to required level, clearing of drains/culverts, painting of parapets, etc.
Those ordinary maintenance activities which are required once every second or more
years only to reinstate the pavements, structures, shoulders, drains and verges to the
conditions they were in at the time of construction or subsequent reconstruction.
For example: minor overlays in surface dressing, major overlays in asphaltic concrete
on those sections not requiring the base structure to be repaired, shoulder leveling,
minor bridge/culvert/drain repairs etc.
2. Li .3    EMERGE.N.CY M4AINTEN...N.....
These are the activities carried out to deal with emergencies and problems calling for
immediate attention, when any delay may cause blockage of road i.e. land slide,
structure failure, very severe road erosion. Emergency Maintenance can also be
defined as " When safe and smooth flow of traffic is not possible due to certain
unforeseen problem".
2.LL4  REHAB1TATION1         ~  J
Rehabilitation is the term covering extraordinary maintenance activities which may be
required intermittently to catch up with any backlog of 'scheduled routine and periodic
maintenance activities.
For example: major pavement and structural works, like complete strengthening of
bases, sub-bases and overlaying. Rebuilding of very badly damaged or collapsed
structures.
Improvements are those extraordinary maintenance (minor improvement), or
development (major improvement) activities, which may be required intermittently to



strengthen or widen those roads and structures which have been rendered under
designed due to increases in traffic or axle loads. This can also involve modifying the
geometric layout of the road to suit the modern conditions.
The Pavement Maintenance Management System has been defined as the effective
and efficient directing of various activities involved in providing and sustaining
pavements in a condition acceptable to the traveling public at the least life-cycle cost.
Pavement decisions are frequently based on the judgment and experience of engineers
and administrators in different organizational units . Furthermore, there is marked
absence of factual inforrnation on the consequences of previous pavement management
decisions, and the need to assess network trends and needs and demonstrate the impact
of altemative funding programmes.
To determiine the Remaining Service Life of the pavement we have to carry out
Pavement condition survey and Pavement structural evaluation survey. These
surveys are carried out on Regular as well as on Periodic basis and include
information's such as evenness and skid resistance.
Pavement deterioration factors  such as Potholes   Depressions,  Rutting.
Cracking, Bleeding, Crazing,  Raveling,  Edge step,  Edze Erosion,  Poor
drainaze etc. are assessed by conducting Pavement condition or distress survey.
In order to develop an comprehensive Pavement Maintenance Management System
we carry out following type of surveys
*     Pavement Condition Survey
*     Pavement Roughness Survey
*     Dynamic Cone Penetrometer Survey
*     Benklemen Beam Survey
*     Traffic Count
*     Annual Rainfall Survey



National Highway Authority with the help of IMaintenance Consultants MJs Kampsax
International developed a Pavement Management System (PMS) commonly known
as Maintenance Intervention Level (MW). The Maintenance Intervention Levels are
numerical rating assigned to each pavement deterioration factor and give certain
severity levels. The severity levels identifies the extend of damage/deterioration to the
pavement life cycle and helps us in estimating the remaining service life of the
pavement. The range of levels which identify different severity levels are as below:-
> 70         Rehabilitation/Re-construction
60-69       Major periodic overlay/re-strengthening.
50-59       Periodic Maintenance.
40-49        Routir e Maintenance.
The Pavement Maintenance Management Model "MJ L" uses the recommended
surveys. The type and the methodology adopted by the Model is described as below
with two basis Inventories, which are
1.    Pavement Condition Survey
2.    Prevailing Environmental Conditions
order to analyse the pavement defects and deterioration facts certains intervention
gels are assigned to each pavement distress. Under the Pavement Condition Survey,
following criterias are taken into consideration.
E  tSEg!_RMB540aL _e 
The Maintenance Intervention Level model specially aimed at measuring the
condition of the road by recording its defects, where they are located, and the extent
and severity of deterioration.



strengthen or widen those roads and structures which have been rendered under
designed due to increases in traffic or axle loads. This can also involve modifying the
geometric layout of the road to suit the modern conditions.
2d.2 VA" AVMN-T MANEANE NAGEP.T 
tZ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~. .. .......
The Pavement Maintenance Management System has been defined as the effective
and efficient directing of various activities involved in providing and sustaining
pavements in a condition acceptable to the traveling public at the least life-cycle cost.
Pavement decisions are frequently based on the judgment and experience of engineers
and administrators in different organizational units . Furthermore , there is marked
absence of factual information on the consequences of previous pavement management
decisions, and the need to assess network trends and needs and demonstrate the impact
of alternative funding programmes.
To determine the Remaining Service Life of the pavement we have to carry out
Pavement condition survey and Pavement structural evaluation survey. These
surveys are carried out on Regular as well as on Periodic basis and include
informnation's such as evenness and skid resistance.
Pavement deterioration factors  such as Potholes   Depressions,  Rutting,
Crackin2, Bleeding, Crazing, Raveling,  Edge step,  Edge Erosion,  Poor
drainage etc. are assessed by conducting Pavement condition or distress survey.
In order to develop an comprehensive Pavement Maintenance Management System
we carry out following type of surveys
*     Pavement Condition Survey
*     Pavement Roughness Survey
*     Dynamic Cone Penetrometer Survey
*     Benklemen Beam Survey
*     Traffic Count
*     Annual Rainfall Survey



National Highway Authofity with the help of Maintenance Consultants M/s Kampsax
International developed a Pavement Management System (PMS) commonly known
as Maintenance Intervention Level (MIL). The NMaintenance Intervention Levels are
numerical rating assigned to each pavement deterioration factor and give certain
severity levels. The severity levels identifies the extend of damageldeterioration to the
pavement life cycle and helps us in estimating the remaining service life of the
pavement. The range o£levels which identify different severity levels are as below:-
> 70         Rehab&ation/Re-construction
60-69        Major periodic overlay/re-strengthening.
50-59       Perodio Maintenance.
40-49        Routine Maintenance.
The Pavement Maintenance Management Model "MTh" uses the reconmmended
surveys. The type and the methodology adopted by the Model is described as below
with two basis Inventoies, which are
1.    Pavement Condition Survey
2.    Prevailing Environmental Conditions
In order to analyse the pavement defects and deterioration facts certains intervention
levels are assigned to each pavement distress. Under the Pavement Condition Survey,
following criterias are taken into consideration.
,v.M E..
The Maintenance Intervention Level model specially aimed at measunrng the
condition of the road by recording its defects, where they are located , and the extent
and severity of deterioration.



The Pavement ConMem Survey identifies locations where deterioration is occuring,
measure the problemmd the MIL model defines the action needed.
1. Carriageway CMifcation.
2. Wheel track rutuig depth mm.
3. Wheel track rut&g length 1 km.
4. Wheel track craking.
5. Centre line craeRg
6. Wheel track crack:length  I Km.
7. Erosion from edge
8. Edge step
9. Pot Holes.
2.1.2.2-  PRMLLG ENVIRONMENTA 
The Prevailing Enviroomental conditions taken into consideration in NIL model are
as follows
1. Category of Road
2. Road Width avenge meter
3. Roughness mmlk
4. A.A.D.T (Traffic Volume)
5. Equivalent Axle Load ( Daily)
6. Sub-grade C.B.R
7. Pavement Structure number.
8. Rainfall Average mm
9. Drainage



2.1.3   PRo   NCE   7o m                                                     /
' ESTLNIATIO
The pavement deterioation factor or Mlg. score assigned to each pavement is the
combination of above and reflects the total deterioration of the pavement with
reference to its life cyle.
Under the current nmutenance management setup the Deputy Director Maintenance
Field Units is responsible for certain National Highway Sections prepares engineer
estimates for all types of maintenance required on that road section. Tk.e PMS Cell of
National Highway Azahority (Previously a part of Maintenance Division and now
working under Design Section) is responsible for carrying out all types of Field
Surveys which include Pavement Condition Survey, Road Roughness Survey, Falling
Wei-ht Detlecto Meter Survey (to know the structural condition of the pavement). All
these surveys are uised to estimate the need of each pavement and what sort of
Mlaintenance Level and how much quantity is required to keep the pavement in a state
which help the road user to move safely and smoothly.
The field estimates prepared and submitted the Deputy Director Ntaintenance Field
L'nit are compared vvith the %MIL Data so as to evaluate the level of.NMaintenance and
its extent for that particular road section.
2.1.4  AWARD OF CONTRACTS
The budgetary demand for the maintenance of National Highway Network is obtained
after evaluating both the Engineer Field Estimates as well as MIL Scores assi-ned to
each road section.
Based upon the budget received by the Maintenance Directorate from Mtinistry of
Finance once again prionty is assigned for each type of maintenance activity. Different
type of maintenance contracts are awarded in all the regional offices.



During the execution of Maintenance Management Programme it was observed that
MIL  System  as well as the Maintenance Management Programme has certain
deficiencies and needs a new Maintenance Management Systerm The NHA plans to
develop a new model for operating Maintenance Management which will assure quality
control as well as optimization of Maintenance Funds. The proposal envisages :-
1. Placing a simple in-line management structure under the direct control of a high
level committee to run the NHA annual maintenance Programme;
2. Contracting the private highway engineering services industry as consultants for
quality assurance and technical detailing .
3. Ensuring that all institutional objectives and guiding principals of NHA are
addressed.
The proposed Operational Plan operates as follows:-
_Step I
Condition Surveys                    MlL Ranking
Step 2
System Oranization    p  3            Prepare Annual
Checks                            Estimates
Step 4
Prioritizing and     SOr                         a 5
Recommendation based               Operations Organization
on analysis of conditions              places contracts in
plus available budgets.                prioritised order
Step 6
Maintenance Committee
approves maintenance
contract package.



The Maintenance Directorate with its central head office in Islamabad and 23 field
offices perform the all maintenance activities on the National highway network. The
central office is the core of planning, budgeting nad overall management of the
maintenance activites.
NAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION
CHART
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A                                      ;    <~~~~~~~~~~A
.~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --------
-- - - -- - -   ----------------                     --------- .----- t - - - - - -   -



2.2.2 EA..-NE RATIOv.N,
The NMaintenance Division  of National Highway  Authority working  n  the
Headquarters at Islarnabad is headed by General Manager Maintenance. The
Maintenance Division works under the supervision of Chairma, National Highway
Authonrty and Member (Operations), NHA
2.23  -        I    A        ...L...
The Regional Organization of Maintenance consist of General Manager Maintenance,
Director Maintenance, Deputy Director Maintenance incharge of Maintenance Field
Unit under which Assistant Director and Inspectors perform their respective jobs as
define in the job descnription-
2.2.4-- -JOBDESCRIPTIONSTAFFREOUIREMEN
The organization chart of maintenance staff is enclosed. This organization chart which
will look after the assets develop under the MBRP/RSP Projects are the same as that
of NHA Maintenance Division and no separate additional staff is required.
DIRECTOR (MAlNTENANCE)
* To inform G.M (Region) with all maintenance problems.
* To supervise maintenance works within jurisdiction.
*  To maintain full record of maintenance works and payments thereon.
*  To ensure that all National Highways are in proper conditions and there is    no
hindrance for traffic.
* To prepare and submit progress reports on maintenance works as directed by the
Seniors.
* To ensure quality control at site.
* To ensure proper attendance of Consultants/Contractors and NHA staff at site.
* To ensure completion of maintenance works within the scheduled time and
approved estimates.
* To ensure proper utilization of machinery at site as per contract conditions.
* To ensure supply of material at site in due course of time, so that work may not
suffer.



* To ensure payment of bills to consultants/contractors as early as possible after its
submission.
* To check the completion of MfB's for claims by Contractors/Consuitants.
* To prepare replies on audit observations pertaining to respective area of
maintenance work.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR (MAINTENANCE)
* To supervise maintenance works within the allocated jurisdiction.
* To prepare annual maintenance works program, regarding routine and periodic
maintenance contracts.
*  To maintain full record of maintenance works and payments thereon.
* To ensure that all National Highways are in proper conditions and there is no
hindrance for traffic.
* To prepare and subrnit progress reports on maintenance works as directed by the
Seniors.
* To ensure quality control at site.
T To ensure proper atterdance of Consultants/Contractors and NRA staff at site.
= To ensure completion of maintenance works within the scheduled time and
approved estimates.
- To ensure proper utilization of machinery at site as per contract conditions.
3 To ensure supply of material at site in due course of time, so that work may not
suffer.
* To ensure payment of bills to consultants/contractors as early as possible after its
submission.
*  To check the completion of OfMB's for claims by Contractors/Consultants.
* To prepare replies on audit observations pertaining to respective area of
maintenance work.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (MAINTENANCE)
* To be physically present/supervise the maintenance works of the area allocated to
them.
* To ensure quality and completion of work in due course of time.
* To check/certify the claims of consultants and contractors.
* To ensure punctuality of NHA/Contractors staff at site.
*  To ensure proper functioning of National Highway under his supervision.
* To ensure that no one is trying for illegal encroachments in the right of way of
National Highway.
* To ensure proposals for maintenance works and road condition reports to the
Msaintenance Engineer.



a To coilect progress report ,construction works and submit to seniors.
*  To ensure smooth                            f Ti;dEc on National Highways.
e To maintain recora of and construction works of the region.
INSPECTOR MAiETENANCE-)
*  To watch the o&s of maintenance at site.
* To ensure quality of works at maintenance sites.
*  To ensure that the contractors are using required equipment's properly. -
*  To ensure timely completion of works.                              -
* To ensure deployment of qualified personnel by contractors at site, as perEtidract
conditions.
* To watch the condition of roads within particular jurisdiction and submit rep6rWto
senior for necessaxy action.
* To ensure proper attendance of NHA staff at site.
* To ensure smooth running of traffic on the highways.
2.2JT... TG- PROURA                         EEDS
The regular future of INHA policies towards staff development training is provided to
all NHA officials, consultants and contractor's Representative (Engineers). Some of
the major subjects which are covered under the trainining sessions/seminars are as
follows: -
* Pavement Management System.
* Maintenance Management System
* Design of bridges
* Pavement design
* Standard Specification & Contract Documents
* Construction Matenrals
* Highway Safety
* Traffic Analysis & Management
* Axle Load Study
* Maintenance Funds
* Involvement of Private Sector in Highway Lnfrastructure.
As a regular future the above mentioned training/seminars are held in NHA, therefore
no special training is required for MBRP/RSP Project, however a special training
package is included in the Highway Rehabilitation Project i.e. 5th Highway Project



under which detail invesation as well as training will be given to NHA Officials
under the Pak Pave Proymnme.
The budgetary demand fi the maintenance of National Highway Network is obtained
after evaluating both the Egineer Field Estimates as well as MIL Scores assigned to
each road section. The MIL model pays the most vital part in the whole system as it
provides the us with tir priority list of all the sections of the road which need
immediate attention. Wii MIL model applying the same parameters and input criteria
throughout the network, we get a accurate prediction of the maintenance program..
In order to distribute the curtailed budget NHA Maintenance Division has to prioritize
the maintenance needs i each road section by taking into consideration the benefit
cast ratio, traffic level, irnal rate of return and MIL Score.
,0,',,.,.,,,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ., 1
13.0' KEYOEAONLADINNILNDATSI
............~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.......,..     ~   ~    ....... 
The MIL system or the.hbintenance Management System adopted by NNHA is a rating
system used to determine the maintenance requirement of a road sigment based on the
evaluation of road charactsistics. MIL is used to develp accurate maintenance budgets
enabling a highway auth&ity to make best use of limited funding. For all National
Highway Network a comprehensive detail surveys are carried out and set of different
pavement deterioration ftors are gathered from these surveys for each Kilometer of
National Highway Netwxk. The MIL score defines the severity of deterioration and
the level of maintenance fequired to bring back the road to a smooth flow condition.
4     The different suveys and working of MIL  system is already described
above at 2.1.2



Since 1986 the National Highway Network has been expended and significant changes
in traffic volume has occured. The National Transport Research Centre has carried out
detailed traffic surveys on National Highway Network and has also established number
of permanent traffic count stations which enables us to know the traffic flow on
National Highway Network. The average traffic growth projection taken from 1994
NTRC study carried out on the whole National Highway Network reveals that an
annual growth of traffic is about 7%, -but in certain area unprecedented traffic growth
has been witnessed during the last few years.
The Ministry of Communications places the NHZA demand before the Ministr of
Finance for their consideration. T he Ministry of Finance aRter detailed review allocates
certain budget on yearly basis. It has been observed that duning the last Seven to Eight
Years NHA receives about 35 to 50% of its actual demand.
A comparison of demand verses allocation made during the last 10 years is enclosed
for informnation.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..... . ...
YEAR                    DEMAN@D                  ALLOCATION
...  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
RS. MILLION~~~~~~~.....  RS. ....  MILLION
1988-89                      423                        201
1989-90                      475                        269
1990-9 1                     600                        282
1991-92                      796                        378
1992-93                      930               -410
1993-94                     1097                        431
1994-95                     1317                        452
... .. .. .. .. .... ..   . .. .. .. ..... .  
1995-96                     1554                        475
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ............
1996-97                     1760                        522_
-     8                  .  . .
1997-98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ . . .... ....



ANNEX D
Revised Economic and Financial Evaluation
of Pakistan Railway



1
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 3241 - PK
ANNEX D - Revised Economic and Financial Evaluation of PR
PART I. REVISED ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General comment. The SAR analysis was based on broad averages and assumptions about
productivity. These assumptions cannot be tested nor calculated from currently available data.
In their absence the analysis used here will take the productivity assumptions from the SAR as
given, in order to re-calculate the ERRs as best possible, based on the most recent actual cost and
operational data. The data gathering which has been done in March and April 1999 has not been
able to resolve these gaps. The analysis here remains questionable without significant additional
fieldwork.
MIS and Telecommunications A revised ERR for the MIS and Telecommunications sub-
components cannot be calculated as the funds were not used.
Roller Bearings A revised ERR has been calculated for the roller bearings program as 7%. The
main reasons for the lower return are (1) traffic volumes substantially reduced from what was
expected and (2) the early purchase of the new bearings but their slow installation. The SAR
calculation of the ERR at 24%, was estimated using broad averages for the source of the benefits
and an assumption of a 15% productivity increase. Using the same methodology and
recalculating the ERR based on actual expenditures, SAR projected benefits, but with the
reduced traffic volumes which did transpire, yields an ERR of 17%. Recalculating based on the
actual expenditures, actual (slow to be implemented) benefits, and with the reduced traffic
volumes yields the ERR of 7%. Table D-1 shows the details of this calculation.
The preceding analysis is based on using the same foreign exchange rate as was used at the time
of the SAR (25.1 Rs/$). As such it allows an examination of the accuracy of the SAR estimate
unclouded by movements in the exchange rate, for which a forecast was not attempted in the
SAR. If the exchange rate at the time of actual purchase is used (Rs 29.0/$), the two ERRs as
shown above decline to 14% and 6% respectively. This is a measure of the value of the
investment to the country. Table D-2 shows the details of this calculation.
The roller bearing calculation is highly dependent on the improved productivity assumed.
Referring again to Table D-1, if productivity increased only by 10% instead of the 15% assumed
then the ERR is 3%. The switch value at which the ERR is zero is 8%. Any productivity
increases below this level result in a negative ERR. The productivity increases also depend on
all the wagons in a train being fitted with roller bearings. It is early to quantify any benefits
because, only because a very small proportion of the wagon fleet have been fitted with the roller
bearings and it is only quite recently (1998/99) that PR has segregated about six rakes where all
wagons are fitted with roller bearings.
Locomotives The locomotive related project sub-components; to reconmmission 46 locomotives,
build up unit exchange spares, and traction motor repair have been lumped together in one figure
of total additional locomotives due to the project. The SAR calculation of the ERR was 27%. A
revised ERR has been calculated for this component as 48%.



2
The SAR treated locomotives used for freight traffic and locomotives used for passenger traffic
separately. The productivity assumptions for freight locomotives were 45 million tonne-
kilometres per year per locomotive and an economic benefit of using rail compared to hauling by
truck of Rs 0.20 per tonne-kilometre. The equivalent figures for passenger traffic were 150
million passenger kilometres per locomotive per year and Rs 0.06 per passenger kilometre. If the
two figures are multiplied then the result is the Rs value of a locomotive per year. In both cases
this value per year figure is the same, Rs 9 million. So the SAR, although treating both types of
locomotive separately, was in effect using one figure of locomotive value per year. The benefits
figure is equal to the total number of freight and passenger locomotives times Rs 9 million.
Table D-3, attached, replicates the SAR calculations.
Data on the detailed operational effect of the various locomotive programs has been particularly
difficult to obtain. The specific use of the incremental locomotives provided by the project
cannot be identified. In other words, it is not possible to say whether the availability of project
locomotives has been used to enhance the freight or the passenger services and thus separate
calculations based on the different values of these two services are not possible. Table D-4 uses
average figures for the value of a locomotive to recalculate the ERR as 48%
The horizon year for the SAR's ERR calculation was quite short, only six years of benefits were
evaluated. A short time horizon may have been used because of the overall age of the PR
locomotive fleet, which was not addressed by this loan, forces so many locomotives to be retired
that as you push the horizon year out, the total fleet starts to diminish. With the age of the fleet
this may be the case even when the GOP fulfills its obligation to keep foreign exchange of spares
constant. The SAR provides an analysis that focuses only on the immediate, short-term benefit
of the specific locomotive investment. It did not consider the question of a longer term,
sustainable railway operation, if much of the rest of the fleet becomes unusable.



RE-EVALUATION OF ERR FOR ROLLER BEARINGS INVESTMENT
EXAMPLE: SAR                                             EXAMPLE: IRC #1 - lower traffic than expected         EXAMPLE: IRC #2 - lower traffic AND slower adoption
Traffic & Savings                                        Traflic & Savings                                     Traflic & Savings
Wagons in service                            30,600      Wagons in service                        25,815       Wagons In service                        25,815
Freight moved (tonne/km), 1989/90      8,364,000,000     Freight moved (tonnelkm), 1995/96  5,077,000,000      Freight moved (tonne/km), 1995/96  5,077,000,000
Freight moved per wagon                     273,333      Freight moved per wagon                 196,669       Freight moved per wagon                  196,669
Number of W with beanings (ultimate)         15,000      Number of W with beanngs (ultimate)       7,785       Number of W with beanngs (ultimate)       7,785
tkm moved with bearings (calc)         4,100,000,000     tkm moved with bearngs (calc)      1,531,065,078      tkm moved with bearings (calc)      1,531,065,078
Reconcilliafion factor                       0.0999                                               0.1000                                                0.1000
tkm moved with bearings (input)         409,500,000      tkm moved with bearings (input)      153,106,508      tkm moved with bearings (inout)      153,106,508
saving per tkm (RsAtkm, 10% inc)               0.20      saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 10% inc)           020        saving per tkm (Rstkm, 10% inc)             0.20
annual saving                            81,900,000      annual saving                         30,621,302      annual saving                         30,621,302
saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 15% inc)               0.30      saving per tkm (Rsttkm, 15% inc)           0.30       saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 15% inc)            0.30
annual saving                           122,350,000      annual saving                         45,931,952      annual saving                         45,931,952
Costs                                                    Costs                                                 Costs                                                 f                  S
Bearngs                                                  Bearings                             151,302,800      Bearings                             151,302,800  25.1               6,023,000
Axles                                                    Axles                                 62,750,000      Axles                                 62,750,000  25.1               2,500,000
Machinery                                                Machinery                             27,610,000      Marhinery                             27,610,000  25.1               1,100,000
Total                                   500,000,000      Total                                241,662,800      Total                                241,662,800  25.1               9,628,000
ERR:         24%                                         ERR:         17P                                      ERR:         7-^b
Year-byer detail                                         Yerby-yeardei                                         Year byyealr detait                                # wagons  chg in
Year   Csts         Bennefls             e                ear      ts        Benefits          NeL               a   Costs   B    e.^,entfs          NeL  insernv   wagons           FY
500.0    %    122.9   %                                 241.7    %    45.9    %                               241.7    %    45.9    %
0    250.0   50      0.0    0           -250.0           0   120.8   50     0.0    0          -120.8           0     0.0    0     0.0    0             0.0       0             90t91
1   250.0   50      61.4   50           -188.6           1   120.8   50    23.0   50           -97.9           1    0.0    0      0.0    0             0.0       0       0    91/92
2      0.0    0    122.9  100            122.9           2     0.0    0    45.9  100            45.9           2   241.7  100     0.0    0          -241.6       6        6    92193
3                  122.9  100            122.9           3                 45.9  100           45.9            3     0.0    0     2.4    5             2.4     407      401    93/94
4                  122.9  100            122.9           4                 45.9  100            45.9           4     0.0    0     7.6   17             7.6    1294      887    94/95
5                  122.9  100            122.9           5                 45.9  100            45.9           5     0.0    0    11.6   25            11.6    1973      679    95/96
6                  122.9  100            122.9           6                 45.9  100            45.9           6     0.0    0    15.7   34            15.7   266S       695    96/97
7                  122.9  100            122.9           7                 45.9  100           45.9            7     0.0    0    24.1   53            24.1    4090    1422    97/98
8                  122.9  100            122.9           8                 45.9  100            45.9           8     0.0    0    33.0   72            33.0    5600    1510    98/99
9                  122.9  100            122.9           9                 45.9  100           45.9            9     0.0    0    42.5   92            42.5    7200    1600    99/OO
10                  122.9  100            122.9          10                 45.9  100           45.9           10    0.0    0    45.9  100             45.9    7785      585    OW01
11                  122.9  100            122.9          11                 45.9  100            45.9          11                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    01/02
12                  1229  100             122.9          12                 45.9  100            45.9          12                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    0203               W
13                  122.9  100            122.9          13                 45.9  100           45.9           13                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    03/04              m
14                  122.9  100            122.9          14                 45.9  100           45.9           14                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    04/05              M
15                  122.9  100            122.9          15                 45.9  100            45.9          15                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    05/06
16                  122.9  100            122.9          16                 45.9  100           45.9           16                 45.9  100            45.9    7785        0    06/07
NOTES:
Sources: Staff Appaisat Report (SAR), 11 June, 1990.
bold figures indicate key source data



RE-EVALUATION OF ERR FOR ROLLER BEARINGS INVESTMENT
EXAMPLE: SAR                                            EXAMPLE: IRC #1 - lower traffic than expected        EXAMPLE: IRC #2 - lower traffic AND slower adoption
Traffic & Savings                                       Traffic & Savings                                    Traffic & Savings
Wagons in service                           30,600      Wagons in service                        25,815      Wagons in service                        25,815
Freight moved (tonnelkm), 1989/90     8,364,000,000     Freight moved (tonne/km), 1995/96  5,077,000,000     Freight moved (tonne/km), 1995/96  5,077,000,000
Freight moved per wagon                    273,333      Freight moved per wagon                 196,669      Freight moved per wagon                 196,669
Numberot Wwith bearings (ultimate)          15,000      Number of W with beanngs (ultimate)       7,785      Number of W with bearings (ultimate)      7,785
tkm moved with bearngs (calc)         4,100,000,000    tkm moved with bearings (calc)      1,531,065,078     tkm moved with bearings (calc)     1,531,065,078
Reconcilliation factor                      0.0999                                               0.1000                                               0.1000
tkm moved with beanngs (input)          409,500,000     tkm moved with bearings (input)     153,106,508      tkm moved with beanngs (input)      153,106,508
saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 10% inc)              0.20      saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 10% inc)           0.20      saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 10% inc)           0.20
annual saving                            81,900,000     annual saving                        30,621,302      annual saving                        30,621,302
saving per tkm (Rsltkm, 15% inc)              0.30      saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 15%inc)            0.30      saving per tkm (Rs/tkm, 15% inc)           0.30
annual saving                           122,850,000     annual saving                        45,931,952      annual saving                        45,931,952
Costs                                                   Costs                                                Costs                                                a                 a
Bearings                                                Bearings                            174,812,000      Bearngs                             174,812,000  29.0               6,028,000
Axles                                                   Axles                                72,500,000      Axles                                72,500,000   29.0              2,500,000
Machinery                                               Machinery                            31,900,000      Machinery                            31,900,000   29.0              1,100,000
Total                                   500,000,000     Total                               279,212,000      Total                               279,212,000  29.0               9,628,000
ERR:         24%                                        ERR:        14%                                      ERR:         6%
Yeaerbytearaderl Year-bymyear detai                                                                          Year-"ar detail                                  # wagons chg in
YeaL  Costs         Benefits           NeL              Year  Costs       _Beneftts         .sL             -Year  Costs       Benefits          .NeL     inservice wagons       FY
500.0   %    122.9   %                                 279.2   %    45.9    %                               279.2   %    45.9   %
0    250.0  50      0.0    0           -250.0           0   139.6   50     0.0    0         -139.6           0     0.0    0    0.0    0             0.0       0             90/91
1   250.0  50    61.4  50              -188.6           1  139.6   50   23.0   50           -116.6           1     0.0    0    0.0    0             0.0       0       0    91/92
2     0.0    0    122.9  100            122.9           2     0.0    0    45.9  100           45.9          2   279.2  100    0.0    0           -279.2       6       6    92/93
3                  122.9  100           122.9           3                 45.9  100           45.9           3     0.0    0    2.4    5            2.4      407     401    93/94
4                  122.9  100           122.9           4                 45.9  100           45.9           4     0.0    0     7.6   17            7.6    1294     887    94/95
5                  122.9  100           122.9           5                 45.9  100           45.9           5     0.0    0    11.6  25            11.6    1973     679    95/96
6                 122.9  100            122.9           6                 45.9  100           45.9          6      0.0    0    15.7   34           15.7    2668     695    96/97
7                  122.9  100           122.9           7                 45.9  100           45.9          7      0.0    0   24.1   53            24.1    4090    1422    97/98
8                  122.9  100           122.9           8                 45.9  100           45.9          8      0.0    0    33.0   72           33.0    5600    1510    98/99
9                  122.9  100           122.9           9                 45.9  100           45.9           9     0.0    0   42.5   92            42.5    7200    1600    99/00
10                 122.9  100            122.9          10                 45.9  100          45.9          10    0.0    0   45.9  100             45.9    7785      585    00101
11                 122.9  100            122.9          11                 45.9  100          45.9          11                 45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    01/02
12                 122.9  100            122.9          12                 45.9  100          45.9          12                 45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    02/03              m
13                 122.9  100            122.9          13                 45.9  100          45.9           13                45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    03/04
14                 122.9  100            122.9          14                 45.9  100          45.9          14                 45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    04/05
15                 122.9  100            122.9          15                 45.9  100          45.9          15                 45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    05/06
16                 122.9  100            122.9          16                 45.9  100          45.9          16                 45.9  100           45.9    7785        0    06/07              1
NOTES:
Sources: Staff Appaisal Report (SAR), 11 June, 1990.
bold figures indicate key source data



RE-EVALUATION OF ERR FOR LOCOMOTIVE INVESTMENTS                           TABLE D-3
EXAMPLE: repeat SAR
89/90    90/91           91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
Loco Fleet Without Project
Available Locos
Freight                            156    42.5%
Passenger - long dist              119    32.4%
Passenger - other                   80  excluded
Shunting                            92    25.1%
Total available                       447                429      409      389      369      349      329
Locomotives in fleet                  564               564       564      564      564      564      564
% availability                        79%               76%      73%      69%      65%       62%      58%
Loco Fleet With Project
available by recurrent exp         447                447      447      427      407      387      367
recommissioned                                         17       33       28       23       19       16
Total available                       447                464      480      455      430      406      383
% availability                        79%               82%      85%      81%      76%       72%      68%
Net Locomotive Gain                        0                35       71        66       61       57       54
Freight                                                15       30       28       26       24       23
Passengers                                             11       23       21       20       18        18
Shunting                                                9       18       17       15        14       14
Loco Productivity (tkm and pkm, million)
Freight                     45                        669    1,358    1,262    1,167    1,090    1,033
Passengers                 150                      1,702    3,453    3,210    2,967    2,772    2,626
Cost Savings from Road Transport (Rs/tkm or pkm)
Freight                    0.20                       134      272      252      233      218      207
Passengers                 0.06                       102      207      193      178      166       158
Total                                                 236      479      445      411      384       364
Rate of Return Calculation
Costs                              750                347       52
Benefits                                              236      479      445      411      384      364
Net                                -750              -111      427      445      411      384       364
IRR:    27.3%
NOTES:
Sources: Staff Appaisal Report (SAR), 11 June, 1990.



RE-EVALUATION OF ERR FOR LOCOMOTIVE INVESTMENTS                      TABLE D-4
EXAMPLE: ACTUAL RESULT
89/90     90/91  91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95196    96/97    97/98
Net Locomotive Gain                        0        0       12       20       44       53      59       75
Rate of Retum Calculation
Costs                                 3      545      249     349      323      352      332       38
Beneffts                              0        0      204     348      780      992    1,327    1,763
Net                                  -3    -545      -44       -1      457      640      995    1,726
IRR:     48.0%
April 1999 data (Khalil Rashid)
Cumulative Project Locomotives                     0        0       12      20       44       53       59       75
Project Costs                                   2.66   544.98   248.51   348.90   323.49   351.67   332.15    37.85
Total Earnings Freight + Passenger     5,236    5,316    6,502    7,070    7,092    7,163    7,559    8,931    9,099
Eamings per loco (current dollars)     11.90    12.60    15.63    17.04    17.38    17.73    18.71    22.50    23.51
Locos from project                                                  12      20       44       53       59       75
Earnings from project (current dollars)                         204.43   347.65   780.13   991.65 1,327.28  1,763.37
Actual traffic
Freight (tkm million)                          5,708    5,962    6,180    5,939    5,661    5,077    4,607    4,447
Passengers (pkm million)              20,400   19,900   18,200   17,100   16,400   17,600   18,900   19,100   18,800
Freight Earnings (Rs million)          3,275    2,962    3,823    4,287    4,270    4,059    3,957    4,414    4,519
Annual Inflation                               12.7%     9.6%     9.3%    11.2%    12.9%    10.9%    11.8%    7.8%
Inflation Adjustment                      1     0.87     0.79     0.72     0.64     0.55     0.49    0.44     0.40
Freight Eamings, constant price        3,275    2,586    3,017    3,068    2,714    2,247    1,952    1,920    1,813
Passenger Eamings (Rs million)         1,961    2,354    2,679    2,783    2,822    3,104    3,602    4,517    4,580
Annual Inflation                               12.7%     9.6%    9.3%    11.2%    12.9%    10.9%    11.8%     7.8%
Inflation Adjustment                      1     0.87     0.79     0.72     0.64     0.55     0.49    0.44     0.40
Passenger Eamings, constant price      1,961    2,055    2,114    1,992    1,794    1,718    1,777    1,965    1,837
NOTES:
Sources: Staff Appaisal Report (SAR), 11 June, 1990
Additional PR data collected by Dr. Khalid Rashid in April 1999



7
PART II. ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF PAKISTAN
RAILWAYS
1.   Financial Analysis Since beginning of the Project
1.1  The physical and institutional components planned in the Project, envisaged that PR would
be able to improve its financial performance based on efficient operations and increased
productivity and could be transformed into a profitable venture. The financial projections made at
the stage of the Project appraisal indicated that by the end of 1994-95, i.e. after five years of the
commencement of the Project, PR would start showing profits. Analysis of the past financial
performance indicates that PR did show a sign of improvement in the first three years of the
Project and its losses dropped from Rs. 2.8 billion in 1988-89 to Rs. 0.9 billion in 1992-93.
However, since 1992-93 PR is incurring continually increasing losses every year and reached an
ever high figure of 6.6 billion in 1995-96. The Profit & Loss statement has been summarized in
table 1. The figure below shows the trends of deterioration of PR financial performance since
1988-89.
PR financial losses
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
.42.0
1.0
88-89  89-90  90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94  94-95  95-96  96-97  97-98
Financial Year
Figure 1: PR financial losses during 1988-89 to 1997-98



8
1.2   The reasons for PR losses can be attributed to the following factors:
(a)   Reduction in earnings due to reduced traffic volume, partly due to non availability of
locomotives;
(b)   Non adjustment of tariffs according to the annual inflation rate; and
(c)   Increased financial charges due to additional overdraft.
1.3   PR losses would have been much higher, had PR not been able to restrain these losses as
due to successful implementation of the following steps:
(i)   Reduction in staff due to attrition program; and
(ii)  Introduction of the PSO concept
Cash Generation
1.4   The analysis of PR finances (Table 1) shows that although cash generation in 1992-93 was
positive, however PR has not been able to achieve positive cash generation since then. Article IV
Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement requires that from 1994-95 PR should be able to generate
enough cash to finance a reasonable portion of its capital expenditure. Financial position for FY97-
98 indicates that PR will be in default of this covenant of the agreement for the consecutive fourth
year.
2.    Traffic Analysis
Freight Traffic
2.1   The commodity wise analysis of goods traffic in terms of Thousands of Tons and Millions of
TKm carried since 1989-90 is given in the table below.
Cernent    - Tons          533      415      297       388        283       230       95       43
- TKn           459      385      294       282        165       167       80       22
Coal       -Tons           235      211      161       189        169       115       96       70
-TKm            270      244      194       217        192       130      105       76
Fertilizer    Tons         917      814      825       665        572       777      630      384
TKm            754      729      748        568       411       572      408       197
Rice       Tons            392      294      331       659       257        200        3        2
TKm            290      199       165       796       307       139        2         1
Wheat      Tons            824      888    1,046       962       990        509      567      686
TKm            819    1,033    1,299        974      1,162      525      661       806
P.O.L       Tons         1,595    1,648    2,225      2,452     2,319     2,375    2,125    2,216
TKm            853    1,192    1,624      1,750     1,770      1,838    1,582    1,685
Departmental Tons        1,000    1,072      840       807      1,028       820      926      658
TKm            186      371      268        257       321       284      280      215
Others      Tons         2,221    2,218    2,044      1,914     1,738     1,828    1,971    1,941
TKm          2,077    1,809    1,588      1,095     1,333      1,422    1,502    1,445
Total       Tons         7,717    7,560    7,769      8,036     7,356     6,854    6,380    5,977
TKm          5,708    5,962    6,180      5,939     5,661     5,077    4,607    4,447
Table 2: Comparison of freight traffic (Tons in Thousands and TKm in Millions)



9
2.2   Table 2 shows that apart from POL and wheat, both of which are government sponsored
businesses, PR has been losing its freight traffic for all other commodities. Apart from this loss in
freight volume, the profitability of various commodities has dropped as well. During 1995-96 only
POL white oil business registered profits and all other commodities made over all losses. Analysis
of PR freight services profitability shows that the number of profitable commodities has dropped
from seven in 1990-91 to five commodities making profit in 1997-98. The table 3 below gives such
comparison.
Profi keMdg cmedte
1988-89                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - furnace oil
3:    Wheat
1989-90                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - funace oil
3:    Wheat
1990-91                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - furnace oil
3:    Wheat
4:    Fertilizer
5:    Phosphate
6:    Iron scrap
7:    Cotton
1991-92                      1:    POL- white oil
2:    POL- funace oil
3:.   Wheat
4:    Rice
5:    Fertilizer
6:    Phosphate
7:    Iron scrap
1992-93                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - furnace oil
3:    Wheat
4:    Rice
5:    Fertilizer
6:    Phosphate
7:    Iron scrap
1993-94                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL-furnace oil
3:    Wheat
4:    Fertilizer
5:    Phosphate
6:    Iron scrap
1994-95                      1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - furnace oil
1995-96                      1:    POL - white oil



10
1_96.97                    1:    POL - white oil
2:    POL - furnace oil
3:    Wheat
4:    Fertilizer
5:    Sugar
1997-98                    1 :    POL - white oil
2:    POL - fumace oil
3 :    Wheat
4:    Fertilizer
5 :    Sugar
Table 3: Year wise profit making commodities
2.3   Earnings from goods traffic since 1989-90 is summarized in table 4 below and adjusted for
inflation to analyze the real trends over the Project period. When converted into 1989-90 values, the
real earnings in the freight sector shows a drop of 44.6% during 1989-90 to 1997-98 period.
1989-90            3,275            Base year            1.00              3,275
1990-91            2,962              12.7%              0.87              2,586
1991-92            3,823              9.6%               0.79              3,017
1992-93            4,287              9.3%               0.72              3,068
1993-94            4,270              11.2%              0.64              2,714
1994-95            4,059              12.9%              0.55              2,247
1995-96            3,957              10.9%              0.49              1,952
1996-97            4,414              11.8%              0.44              1,920
1997-98            4,519              7.8%               0.40              1,813
Table 4: Inflation adjusted freight earnings



11
Passenger Traffic
2.4   The analysis of the passenger traffic since 1989-90 is given in the table below and compared
with the assumptions made in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared in July 1990.
Yar         .            rs     Pag.rm    Atalper    SAR                   1
(Million)       (Billio>    ,PK  ,R,,)   - r-f-(ji 'AR)
1989-90             84.6             20.4             0.10             N.A.
1990-91              84.9             19.9            0.12             0.10
1991-92             73.3              18.2            0.15             0.11
1992-93             59.0              17.1            0.16             0.12
1993-94             61.7              16.4            0.17              0.14
1994-95             66.5              17.6            0.18             0.15
1995-96             73.6              18.9            0.19              0.17
1996-97             68.8             19.1             0.23              0.18
1997-98             64.9              18.8            0.24             N.A.
Table 5: Passenger traffic since 1989-90
2.5   Passenger earnings, since 1989-90 are summarized in table below and adjusted for inflation
to analyze the real trends over the project period. When converted into 1989-90 values, the real
earnings in the passenger sector shows a drop of 6.3% during 1989-90 to 1997-98 period.
-    Year   --             M= -tiiuaIl-fl~tii_  -     u     a   ~aAl .- in-    9
.    ;  .. ,~Eanl                                                         V--. .U  ---;;;::. --.M......  ....... -s
1989-90            1,961            Base year            1.00              1,961
1990-91            2,354             12.7%              0.87               2,055
1991-92            2,679              9.6%               0.79              2,114
1992-93            2,783              9.3%              0.72               1,992
1993-94            2,822             11.2%               0.64              1,794
1994-95            3,104             12.9%               0.55              1,718
1995-96            3,602             10.9%              0.49               1,777
1996-97            4,517             11.8%               0.44              1,965
1997-98            4,580              7.8%               0.40              1,837
Table 6: Inflation adjusted passenger earnings



12
3.   SAR Assumptions Vs Actual Trends
3.1   Various assumptions made at the start of the Project and the actual trends for the period 1990
- 1996 are given in table 7 below:
Inflation    - SAR     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     60%
- Actual     12.7%    9.6%     9.3%    11.2%    12.9%    10.9%    11.8%     101%
Tariff Increase - SAR  10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    95%
- Actual    12.0%     5.0%     5.0%     0.0%     0.0%     5.0%    10.0%     43%
Staff Reduction SAR    2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     2.5%     19%
- Actual      1.8%    4.9%     3.4%     3.5%     2.4%     7.9%     7.2%     35%
Salary Increase- SAR   7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     7.0%     60%
- Actual     6.4%    20.0%    17.0%     3.3%    17.5%     6.6%     -3%      87%
Table 7: SAR assumptions Vs actual trends
3.2   One of the major assumptions to effect PR profitability was that PR would be ableto increase
its tariffs by 10% annually which will give a real increase of 3% based on the 7% annual inflation
assumed in the SAR. However the actual figures show that not only that PR was not able to increase
its tariffs, but the annual inflation was also about 3% - 4% higher than that assumed in the SAR. The
cumulative net effect of increase in inflation after adjusting various tariff increases has been 58%
during the Project period, which is the main contributing factor for PR ever increasing losses.
4.   Tariff Analysis
4.1  Pakistan Railways has been operating under continual loss for almost quarter of a century
now. There are many factors which can be attributed to PR losses, however the basic fact is PR
has not been able to increase its revenues in line with the associated increase in expenses. Apart
from poor and inefficient service levels which resulted in loss of traffic to its road competitors,
PR has not been able to increase its tariffs in line with the prevailing inflation in the country.
There was no tariff increase between July 1985 to April 1991, a period of about six years having
annual inflation rate around 10%. Similarly, there was no tariff increase between September 1992
and October 1995, a period of three years.



13
4.2  The tariff increases implemented since 1990-91 along with the inflation are given in -table 8
below for comparison:
Year               PR Tariff Increase       Annual Inflation
Passenger      G~oos
1990-91            12%           15%              12.7%
1991-92            5%            5%               9.6%
1992-93            5%            5%               9.3%
1993-94             -             -               11.2%
1994-95             -             -               12.9%
1995-96            5%            10%              10.9%
1996-97            10%           10%              11.8%
1997-98             -             -               7.8%
Cumulative 1990-98     43%            53%              127%
Table 8: Comparison of PR tariff increase with the prevailing inflation.
4.3   The above table shows that the compound effect of inflation since 1990-91 to 1997-98 is
about 127% whereas the cumulative tariff increase during this period has been only 43% for
passengers and 53% for freight traffic. Had PR been able to increase its revenues to cover the
annual inflation, PR would have been in a much better financial position.
4.4   However, this would have been only possible if the competitive road transport industry had
also increased its fares regularly with inflation. Since over the past ten to fifteen years, road
transport has become more efficient in terms of bigger lorries and cheaper spare parts coming
through smuggling channels via Afghanistan transit trade facilities. This has resulted in efficiency
gains to the truck operators and even if they do not increase their fare to cover for full inflation, they
could still operate profitably.
4.5  PR has been comparing tariffs of road transport and some selected rates are reproduced
below in table 9 and table 10 for comparison purposes. The analysis of the data collected by PR, in
terms of tariff comparative for two different periods reveals that the tariff increase in bus fare for the
period 1994 - 1998 has been more than the corresponding tariff increase by PR for the Economy
class fare. PR fares were higher than the road fares in 1994, whereas in 1998 PR fares were lower
than the corresponding road fares.
Passengersecor                    b Ordinarybusi re      PR enomycais fare.
1994    - 1998  Incrase          1994     1998       Icrease
Rs.      - 'v)'   .       _ . -.(Rs)        (Rs.)
Lahore - Faisalabad    21         40        90%         28          35        25%
Rawalpindi - Karachi  230         425       85%         245        315        28%
Lahore - Karachi       180        300       67%         200        255        27%
Karachi - Hyderabad    21         35        67%         32          40        25%
Table 9: Comparison of ordinary bus fare with PR economy class fare



14
1994       1998~                   1-994      198      Iree
Fertilizer (Karachi - Lahore)      550         975        77%         638        840         31%
Wheat (Karachi - Peshawar)         725        1225        69%         872        1036        18%
Furnace Oil (Karachi -Lahore       880        1325        50%        9;16        1176       28%/7
Table 10: Comparison of PR freight rates with road transport
5.    Financial Charges
5.1   One of the major impacts of PR financial losses is increase in its borrowings (over draft)
from the State Bank of Pakistan. Most of the overdraft is utilized in covering the shortfall in
earnings for the previous years and excess expenditure during the current year. Mostly GoP funds
releases are not received in time and PR has to resort to overdraft facility from the State Bank to
make its urgent payments, which results in heavy financial charges. The table 11I and the figure 2
below show overdraft position on 30 June of each year and the financial charges for that period.
1989-90                  103                      8
1990-91                  284                     25
1991-92                  300                     48
1992-93                  613                      64
1993-94                 1,453                    289
1994-95                 2,014                    547
1995-96                 6,553                    796
1996-97                 9,322                   1,506
1997-98                 11,740                  2,069
Table 1 1: PR overdraft position since 1989-90



15
PR overdraft position
14.00
12.00
10.00
:i   800
600
4.00
200
1989-90  1990-91  1991-92   1992-93  1993-94  1994-95   1995-96  1996-97  1997-98
Year
Figure 2: PR overdraft position since 1989-90
6.    PR Profitability Analysis
6.1   PR profitability of passenger and freight services is summarized in the table 12 below. PR
profitability of passenger sector has deteriorated over the past nine years. PR has not been able to
attract much passenger traffic during this period as the PKm has dropped from 20,373 in 1989-90 to
18,774 in 1997-98. Although earning per PKni increased by about 154% but the corresponding cost
per PKm increased by 158%. The train wise profitability statement produced by PR for the year
1994-95 shows that all the Intercity and Passenger trains are operating at loss based on both the
variable cost recovery as well as full cost recovery. Only two Mail and Express trains are operating
at profit based on full cost recovery and six trains are operating at profit based on variable cost
recovery.
Passenger Sector
Total Earnings          1,961     2,354     2,678     2,783      2,822     3,104    3,602    4,517    4,580
Total PKm             20,373     19,964    18,158    17,082     16,385    17,555   18,905   19,114   18,774
Earnings Rs/PKm        0.096      0.118     0.147     0.163      0.172     0.177    0.190    0.236    0.244
Costs   Rs./PKm        0.199      0.268     0.310     0.348      0.393     0.427    0.470    0.495    0.513
Contribution/PKm       -0.103    -0.150    -0.163    -0.185    -0.221     -0.250   -0.280   -0.259   -0.269
Pofit /(Loss) %       (1 07%)   (127%)    (I I I)   (113%)   (1 28%)    (1 4 1 %)  (147%)  ( I 0%)  (1 I 0%)



16
Freight Sector
Total Earnings       3,275    2,962    3,823     4,287     4,270    4,059    3,957    4,414    4,519
Total TKm            7,226    5,708     5,962    6,180    5,939     5,661    5,077    4,607    4,447
Earnings Rs/TKm      0.453    0.519     0.641    0.694     0.719    0.717    0.779    0.958    1.016
Costs  RsAfKrn       0.441    0.553     0.551    0.541     0.624    0.767    0.880    1.015    1.058
Contribution /PKm    0.012    -0.034    0.090    0.153    0.095    -0.050   -0.101   -0.057   -0.042
profit/ (Loss) %     (3%/6)    (6%)      14%      22%       13%     (7%)   (13%)    (6%)    (4%/o)
Table 12: Profitability of passenger and freight services
6.2   The freight sector however had been operating under profit for three years i.e from 1991-92
to 1993-94, but the profit margins are too low to compensate for the losses in the passenger sector.
The profitability analysis show that during the period 1989-97 the freight carried in terms of TKm
dropped by 38%. PR did show some improvement in its operations from 1990-91 up to 1992-93 and
the TKm carried increased from 5,708 million to 6,180 million, an increase of about 8%. This is also
clear from the PR annual Revenue Statement where PR losses dropped from 2,754 million in 1989-
90 to 897 million in 1992-93. However since 1992-93, PR losses has been increasing as is clear
from the above table as the freight carried in 1997-98 dropped to 4,447 TKm which is an 28% drop
from 1992-93.
6.3   The reduction in TKm and PKm resulted in PR fixed costs being borne by a smaller traffic
base. This resulted from the GOP decision to (a) inadequately fund recurrent budget of
locomotive spares and (b) delay the Project's locomotive backlog reduction program from being a
three year scheme to more than six years which has also reduced the size of the program due to
lone closure in June 1996. The Project had intended to enable PR to quickly recover its
locomotive capacity and hence traffic potential, but the above decisions nullified the Project's
impact.
7.    Staff Strength
7.1   One of the success of the Project is control of staff costs. In 1989-90, PR employed
133,261 employees which were reduced to 104,888 in 1997-98. The reduction in staff strength
has been achieved by natural attrition and PR is likely to continue this policy in future as well.



17
Year              NofSt£f
1989-90             133,261
1990-91             130,884
1991-92             124,436
1992-93             120,209
1993-94              116,026
1994-95             113,186
1995-96             104,281
1996-97              96,768
1997-98              96,111
Table 13: Staff strength of PR
7.2   However, one of the factors for success of the attrition program was the fact that during this
period GoP has banned any new recruitment for all departments unless needed for technical reasons.
There is a risk that once the GoP lifts the ban, most of these vacant post may be filled due to
political pressures. It is important that PR deletes most of these surplus posts and reduce the
sanctioned strength of its personnel as well.
8.   Public Service Obligations
8.1   One of the major successes has been to introduce the business approach in PR. Although not
purely commercialized as yet, but still a significant shift in management's approach towards
handling its operations on business lines is clearly visible. One of the concepts introduced by the
Project was to separate PR commercially viable services and those services which are inherently
loss making due to low tariffs and relatively higher fixed costs, but PR is obliged under GoP
instructions to operate these services to serve Public Service Obligations (PSO). In order to operate
PR on purely commercial basis, the cost recovery has been split into two major streams:
(a)  Loss making services which PR has to operate to serve Public Service Obligations
(PSO)
(b)  Other services
8.2   One of the major contribution of the Project was to make GoP recognize the fact that PR
should be financially compensated by GOP for rendering those loss making services and facilities
which are being maintained under PSO due to GoP instructions.
8.3   GoP has been contributing annually about Rs.1.3 billion to Rs. 1.7 billion towards PR
finances under PSO since 1990-91. PR however feels that the compensation under PSO is very low.
PR consultants (CIE Consult) carried out a detailed study in 1996 to work out the actual losses
incurred by PR under PSO services. CIE Consult recommended Rs. 6 billion under PSO to be paid
to PR by GoP. However during 1995-96 GoP did not remit any amount to PR under PSO which



18
resulted in higher overdraft from State Bank of Pakistan an incurred heavy financial charges and
increase in the overall loss for the year 1995-96. Similarly for the years 1996-97 and 1997-98, PR
has not received any funds from GoP under PSO.
8.4  In order to make PR a commercially viable entity, PR should not be operating any loss
making service. In a competitive transport market, it is no longer possible for financially viable
railways to cross subsidize its annex services out of economic services. The profitability analysis for
ordinary passenger trains for the period 1995-96 is given in the table 14 below:
1995.9@s6\      Perce( n t_     o tota
Passenger Km generated           1.4 billion           7.3%
Revenue earned                   Rs. 0.2 billion       5.7%
Full cost                        Rs. 2.7 billion       30%
Contribution to loss             Rs. 2.5 billion       45%
Table 14: Profitability analysis of ordinary passenger trains during 1995-96.
8.5   The above analysis shows that ordinary passenger trains contribute 30% to cost, recover
only 5.7% revenues and account for almost half of passenger losses. Inspite of such a low
profitability, PR is obliged to operate these services due to GOP instructions. Ordinary passenger
trains cost Rs. 1.96 per PKm and earns only Rs. 0.15 per PKm. GOP needs to examine whether
there really is a valid case for operating such services at a loss when financial resources available
to the country are scarce. Many of these ordinary passenger services could easily be replaced by
the parallel bus services.
8.6  PSO was a pre-condition for the World Bank loan, but GoP has withdrawn PSO payments
to PR since 1995-96 and PR is still not allowed to close down its loss making services.



19
9.   Loan Disbursements
1. Recommissioning of 46 D.E. Locos.             14.000           11.370             2.630
2. Traction motors                               19.542            17.106            2.436
3. Roller bearings                               10.544            10.013            0.531
4. Unit Exchange                                 21.000            16.144            4.856
5. MIS                                            3.000                              3.000
6. UHF and VHF                                    6.600                              6.600
7. Workshop Machinery                             5.800             1.821            3.979
8. High capacity wagons                          13.300                             13.300
9. Wagon movers                                   2.000            0.947             1.053
10. Air brake equipment                          0.442             0.442
11. Recommissioning of 2 GMUs                    0.500                               0.500
12. Supervisory  control of Lahore  -            2.000                               2.000
Khanewal
13. Technical Assistance, Studies                6.180             2.719             3.461
14. Miscellaneous unidentified                   0.092                               0.092
Total (Million US$)                             105.000           60.562            44.438



OW             65~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               f ~~~~~  TAJIKISTAN    715            (
PAKISTAN                                                                                           ->2~
0     SELECTED CITIES
*) NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                               N 
-MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS                                                                                                                .......
35~~~~~~~~ ~~RIVERS
-.--PROVINCE BOUNDARIESAprnroe                                                                                                                        3
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
p~~nd                e~~nd KASHMIR
100              200         300 KILOMETERS
0          To         Too         150        2OGOMILES                         ~ei<okbOj                                                    Sokt         .
/            ~~AFGHANISTAN                             K)   "
30-                                      Ott.                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30--
ISLAMIC   REP. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       AGANSA
OF IRAN                                                           L-~~~~~~~~~~~eod  kogo Rh,i                                                      0S.
**'*~~~~**~~~*~~*___  0 000 ~~~~~INJKSAD~-IA
TUR0 ENI&TA
The cop oo prodcod by ko Mop oc~gn In,t of he Worl BonE            i
25lekodrc,  lr,dnmeEnocdeydr,foefo  ieon
I                                                   -- -  I                                    00                70                 70'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN       



IRED 30316
60'                                                    65'                                                   70'                  f           TAJIKISTAN    75                    CLK-704                                                      j      00  
PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                                               CIA'-                                                                   ck
C H I N A            fI 
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS MBRP/RSP PROJECTS                                                                                                                                           V-~                                                                                                               Nu
!I  MBRP ROUND I                          §1 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS4                                                                                                    '-"8',0                                                              AFANTN
' ~ MBRP ROUND II                          0      SELECTED CITIESI-                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
MBRP ROUND III                        *       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                      K                                          OGil9it                          
9R, 7WS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,3
31  RSP ROUND II                         -''   PROVINEBONARE                                                  78142 108( P76A708)                                    I     /    '~'
'00137 [80 710'B1EI1 (5 751F
RSP ROUND III                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  8-158  887782'                                                        1110              71                                  A00li0           . 
a8       RSP ROUND  IIIA                                                                                         17-58I07 <i,IR-e6             '---         P)'14C-                                                                                                                     I   
10I-10_  87  518 " _r                                                          E)--   .      ''    00'
o3       RSP ROUND IV                                                                                           161 1 878RP702110 O3V                        -     c-JI[07
35'                                                                                                                                      1887 )088RP 7022)08geb                     ' \      -            7
13-162    KILOMETER LOCATION ALONG  HIGHWAY                                                                        14010  68711                                      . -y            :-----Apoinle                       
I80fl12       I CONTRACT NUMBERS                                                                                                                                                                            JAPMMUr11]'  18018
(TI      TERMINATED PROJECT                                                                 115618MBRP70171 ordudol                      Keha g        (33I8l.-            oelid                                                                  1'7'
1121 8R0I7 72616,d,s              '                   1W8    7'01 70188)                               and KASHMIR                                 67 
AFGHANISTAN                                                                           *    Enn v             '            M800010   Jhlu0
-  Sie1kot   ",        >
0                                              U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1307 1320 1R0P 7102)
59-85 [8871286)31 -'1,      485 5281                                                       ,0Rene 7i1e1loo
2846)888712040 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~14                                                                                                        kV  291128/  'P71 -
9.                  D.                                         ' (RSP112)7887087 1u
Cbnesenp ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  88077848431~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 70 '~8'
12  610-RS4782Q                                87-780   11-300871407
Nodoki0  -     -Sibi---~~~~~2378 287        , 1.807 71828)BR 71 1 ,,~
30,                                                             871-*030406571    2I                                   fl lR81n18071089
6          -K   708 748 1577129031SP 124 (T
-~~              S2t    DeIbn,sdie 1~~~~~8-68(BP788258                                                                                                                                89 -R  705 735[5 7141
'e.>  -58-86878081                                                             ''''0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  1'I8R
OF IRAN                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X IR  1  Kh 1dr/               2 0suku 'RS                                                                                31103851877p2r
*          -                 .4~          ~~~~~~ '                        61N    RP 1dA          ~
--'5                              -,-                {          -,           6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 R~p07872  RS  1 6
25'        /           -                          Il7-888~                                  '          - -     0Nen~bsheh                /           '072 080 18-887 7014
-  - -               1-8R07041y2r 048 1603967 71P71227)                                                                                                                                                                               DI 
)  -                                                                        4  410Uo)-'.                     -                      218-020 1807 7108)~~/Ml I'019    I- 
- -  *~~~~'    - 396wedu2'  -  --      -   -                -               80%)081~~~~~Y6'udo  ,  - '~Nd k   -               (-9 200 218 1687P 71081
OF   IRAN                                                                                                    rr,                                                                             N  563-585~~1    0R5  70120                                     8  KLOETR
231,33~~£5M_R_7__35____
0-208-87028I)  .~-Q__________________L______k____n____
Karachi  0Tbe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N414~ ~P 16
liDokr                                                                                                                  t              0             '2              80           200,8
25-                                                                                                                               275-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 IM.R_,'''                                       I1888wn   rouedbyls  o  0s418-InI725-rdBab
7035AI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~     8                                                                                             O   ono;e,clr.dro)eIo~   e   rolc  ,101015600
88-'''                                                                                                   8 811$ '107do  oli-plyor b2pu2,l 15WOdROnP 7oup0os
40'                          60'                         -  ' ' ~'                          70'                                                                                      iodn~ren8 oc the )ege)lulu' of ocy oerrilory 02157220dorsP 7en6o
205 2 1 5 (PSP 71 05) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~JUE 77



