Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/.3A//tkF-f
Repo No.8611-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
JUNE 11, 1990
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipins ounly in th pedinmsae of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherise be dselosed wthout Wodd Ban   _h _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currency Unit   -   Rupee (Rs)
Rs 21.5         -   US$1.0
Rs 1            -   US$0.05 (As of March 1990)
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
m           -  meter (3.281 feet)
km          -  kilometer (0.621 mile)
ton-km      -  ton kilometer (0.621 ton-mile)
pass-km     -  passenger-kilometer (0.621 pass mile)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB               -    Asian Development Bank
CIMP              -    Core Investment and Maintenance Program
FHWA              -    Federal Highway Administration (USA)
GOP               -    Government of Pakistan
ICB               -    International Competitive Bidding
KPT               -    Karachi Port Trust
LCB               -    Local Competitive Bidding
MBRP              -    Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program
MIS               -    Management Information System
NHB               -    National Highways Board
NLC               -    National Logistics Cell
PARPRO            -    Pakistan Simplification of International
Trade Procedures Committee
PFP               -    Policy Framework Paper
PIA               -    Pakistan International Airlines
PNSC              -    Pakistan National Shipping Corporation
PQA               -    Port Qasim Authority
PR                -    Pakistan Railways
PSO               -    Public Service Obligations
RSP               -    Resurfacing and Strengthening Program
FISCAL  EA3
July 1 to June 30



FOR omCIL USE ONLY
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contentes
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
I. THE TRANSPORT SECT OR      ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   I .  .    ..   1
A.  Trends and Issues ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   1
B. Institutional Setting .5... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   S
C. Bank Involvem4nt in the Sector .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND REFORM PROGRA . .M .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..    ..   7
A.    Sector  Strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
B. Sector Reform Program.                                            8
Core Inmestment and Maintenance Program (CIMP)  . . . . . . .   9
Trucking Industry Development .10
Highway Development .11
Railway Restructuring .12
Trade Logistics .14
Environmental Aspects .15
Sector Coordination and Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
III. THEPROJE[             ................ . 15
A. Project Objectives  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   15
B.   The  Project  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Highway Component .16
Railway Component .18
Sector Reform Component .21
C. Cost Estimates .21
D. Financing Plan .22
E. Procurement .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
Highway Component .....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Railway Component .....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Sector Reform Component .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
F.  Disbursements, Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
C. Project Supervision .27
H. Environmental Impact .28
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....  .     .  .  .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   28
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   28
B.  Costs and Benefits  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
Highway Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Railway Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
C.  Overall Evaluation and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
This document is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in
February/March 1990. Mission members were Messrs. John Tillman (Task Manager),
Mohsin Alikhan, Philip Blackshaw, Asif Faiz, Roy Pepper, Jacques Yenny, and
Consultants Messrs./Mmes. Darba Hariram, Jack Smith, Jean Weidemann, Al Wight.
Mr. C. Jeremy Lane was closely involved throughout preparations and in the
appraisal report writing. Messrs. David Cheek, Robert Edwards, and John Ellis
(all Consultants) also assisted during earlier preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  RAILWAY FINANCE AND ERNINGS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
A.  Introduction         . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .  .  31
D.  Financial Restructuring  .... .  .  .     ...... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
C.  PR's Financial Profile  ..          . . . .  . . .  . . . .  33
D. Rates and Fares .                    . . . .  . . . . . .  .  34
E.  Past Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
F.  Future Prospects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
G.  Previous Agreements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
H.  Financing Plan ..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
VI. AUEMRACH= RECOMATIO .,. .                                            39
LIST OF ANNqEXESV
2.1  Action Plan for Transport Sector Reform  .    .  .  .  ..  . . . .  42
2.2  Action Plan for NHB Institutional Strengthening and Maintenance
Program Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
2.3  Action Plan for Railway Restructuring, Business Development
and Operational Improvements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
2.4  Core Investment and Maintenance Program (CIMP)  . . . . . . . . . .  52
2.5  Truck Assembly Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  58
2.6  Reorganization of National Highways Board. . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
2.7  Development of a Commercially-Oriented Railway  . . . . . . . . . .  66
2.8  Railway Operational Improvement Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
3.1  National Highway Condition Survey .....  .  .  .  .   .......   .  86
3.2  14BRP and RSP Designs  ......  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  .   87
3.3  MBRP 1990/91 Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  89
3.4  Railway Institutional Development Component . . . . . . . . . . . .  go
3.5  Terms of Reference for Railway Technical Assistance . . . . . . . .  94
3.6  Terms of Reference for Railway Studies  .      .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  104
5.1  Pakistan Railways, the Basis for Financial Forecast . . . . . . . . 110
6.1  List of Documents in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
LIST OF TABLES
1.1  Public Sector Transport Expenditures, Profits
and Revenues 1986/87 .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
1.2  Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic 1971/72-1987/88.  .... . 116
1.3  Unit Revenues and Costs for Road, Rail and Aviation . . . . . . . . 117
2.1  Transport Sector Development Expenditures and
Financing for Seventh Plan        .......... . 118
3.1  Project Cost Estimates: Highway Component . . . . . . . . . . . .  119
3.2  Project Cost Estimates:  Railway Component . . . . . . . . . . . .  121
3.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  122
4.1  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
4.2  Summary of Highway Unit Economic Costs ...   ..... .  .  .  .  .   .  124
4.3  Economic Evaluation of Road Components, Example of Summary
Results ....... . -----..-------...125
4.4  Economic Evaluation of Roller Bearing Installation on
Freight Wagons  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
4.5  Economic Evaluations of Railway Telecommunications  . . . . . . . . 127
4.6  Economic Evaluations of Railway HIS ............... . 128
4.7  Economic Evaluation of Locomotive Spares  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
J/   First number of Annex refers to chapter.



5.1  Pakistan Railways , Revenues and Expenditures
1984/85-1989/90 .                 . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   130
5.2 Pakistan Railways. Forecast of Revenues and Expenditures
1990/91-1996/97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
5.3  Pakistan Railways, Forecast of Sources and Application of funds
1990/91-1990/97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
CHARTS
1. National Highways Board: Proposed Headquarters Organization  . 133
2. National Highways Board: Proposed Regional Organization  . . . 134
3. Pakistan Railways: Proposed Organization . . . . . . . . . . . 135
4. Pakistan Railways: Proposed Business Department  . ..136
IBRD 16248R1



. i -
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project $qmary
Borrower:        Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:   National  Highways  Board,  Pakistan  Railways  and  Central
Government Agencies (Ministry of Communications, Ministry of
Finance and Planning Commission)
mount:           US$184.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project          The   project  would   assist  in  implementing   sectoral
Description:    reforms to improve overall transport efficiency and to meet
future transport demand.  The measures to be implemented are:
(a) rationalizing the highway and railway investment and
maintenance programs in order to compensate for past neglect
of transport infrastructure; (b) strengthening the National
Highways Board; (c) restructuring the railways; (d) increasing
resource mobilization in the sector; (e) modernizing the
trucking industry; (f) improving trade logistics; (g) beginning
to  address  environmental  issues  in  the  sector;  and
(h) strengthening transport coordination and planning.  The
project would include (i) training, studies and technical
assistance needed for Highways Board strengthening for
implementing railway restructuring; (ii) technical assistance
for effective implementation of the sector reform program;
(iii) rehabilitation, resurfacing and strengthening of 800 kms
of the National Highway; (iv) measures for improving railway
operations (converting 15,000 freight wagons to roller bearing
axles, UHF and VHF equipment to provide for improved train
control  and  monitoring,  and  introducing  a  management
information system); and (v) replenishment of spare part
inventories in order to improve locomotive utilization.
Benefits         The main project benefits are lower transport costs, travel
and Risks        time savings and reduced accident rates. Benefits accruing to
truck and bus owners from improved road conditions will be
passed on to users as the road industry is competitive.
Reduced rail transport costs from restoring the full capacity
of the existing motive power and rolling stock will benefit the
economy at large, since railways remain economic for long
distance freight and passenger services. There are risks of
delays in implementing sectoral reforms, some of which need
formal legal actions.   To minimize these risks, sectoral
reforms have been prepared carefully, their implementation
phased, and initial actions made conditions for negotiations
and Board presentations, and implementation of key items made
conditions for effectiveness. Delays to the implementation of
investment components because of shortage of local counterpart
funds would be minimized by requiring GOP to make funds
available at the start of each fiscal year.



- ii .
*mt~tqmae.d Pr]leeCoetL          Local   Foreign   Total
---US*"$ Milion-.---
Mm                              34.8      34.8     69.5
aSP                             16.7      25.1     41.8
TA, Training & Supervision       5.3       2.9      8.2
Advisors                         0.0       2.3      2.5
base Costs                  56.8     65.3    122.1
Physical Contingencies           0.0      0.0       0.0
Price contingencies              8.2      7.8      16.0
............. ..............
Sub-total Hlghways             65.0     73.1    138.1
Iastitutional Development        2.8      4.5       7.3
Roller Bearlngs                 14.3      21.5     35.8
Tclecs  unications               3.0      4.0       7.0
His                              1.4       5.6      7.0
locootive Spares                28.9     53.5      82.4
Base Costs                  50.4     89.1    139.5
Physical Contingencies           2.5      4.5       7.0
Prlce contingencies              6.3      8.3      14.6
,...........................
Sub-total Railways             59.2    101.9    161.1
ESscLor zJiatrmC  _mt              0.2       1.3      1.5
Total Project Cost             2"       I=        X9.61
EZldSELamiagJCL                 Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$  million------
IBID Loan                        7.7    176.3    184.0
GOP                            116.7    .---    116.7
...........................
Total                          2IA      iz..       M...l
hBR PFiscal Year
-118$ m.illio----------------
Annual      7.4      25.7     38.7      34.9     42.3    35.0
Cumulative  7.4      33.1     71.8    106.7    149.0   184.0
_eannami Rat. of  etu:rn   311



ZA^KIEIAH
z}Ewa=g 
STAFF APPRISAL REPQRT
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Trens and Issues
1.01     Traffic andBS=as5 Characteristics.  Pakistan's transport system and
traffic densities reflect the concentration of economic activity in the
Karachi area and in the Punjab.   Most international trade flows through
Karachi and 602 moves to or from the Punjab. Pakistan's principal traffic
artery is the 1,700 km Karachi-Lahore-Islamabad-Peshawar corridor.
Agricultural inputs and production account for nearly 331 of domestic freight
traffic; petroleum products and coal 201; minerals, cement, iron and steel
products 151; and miscellaneous cargoes the remainder. Although road and rail
are the principal transport modes, the long distances have been favorable to
the growth of air transport. Inland water transport has not developed, since
most rivers are saasonal or are blocked by irrigation barrages. The transport
sector accounts for about 7Z of GDP and absorbs about 101 of gross capital
formation; the sector also has a substantial impact on public sector fiscal
balances (Table 1.1).
1.02     Pakistan's economic growth during the past two decades was
accompanied by increased freight and passenger traffic. Between 1971 and 1988
domestic freight and passenger traffic grew at 6.2X and 6.71 per year
respectively (elasticity to CDP of 1.0 and 1.1 respectively) (Table 1.2).
Road freight and passenger traffic grew about 91 and 71 per annum
respectively, while rail freight traffic was stagnant and rail passenger
traffic grew by 4X per annum. Road transport has now replaced rail as the
dominant transport mode and accounts for 851 of non-urban passenger traffic
and 80S of freight traffic.
1.03     Roadi Tt nM .  The deregulation of private trucking in 1960 and the
partial deregulation of buses in 1970 were major factors in enabling
Pakistan's transport system to handle the rapid growth in traffic during the
past 20 years. The motor vehicle fleet (excluding motorcycles) grew from
about 120,000 units in 1971/72 to 650,000 in 1985/86; an annual growth rate of
131. Air-conditioned, premium-fare, inter-city bus services now compete with
the railway for medium distance traffic. Private buses carry about 901 of
total bus pass-km with Provineial Government bus companies accounting for the
rest. The latter have been plagued with problems and losses; overheads and
staff are excessive, and costs double those of private buses.
1.04     The private £vrku ag industry, which carries about 951 of road
freight traffic, is dominated by a large number of individual owners operating
a *hire and reward" service, and supported by numerous and competitive small
scale freight agents. The truck fleet has begun to evolve towards larger
capacity trucks, but full efficiency gains have not been realized because the
larger trucks have not been appropriately designed and powered. To encourage
local production, industrial policies through the 'deletion program* have



- 2 -
given preference to increasing the local component of vehicles assembled in
Pakistan, thus precluding rapid modernization. Available vehicles are
modified to carry heavy loads resulting in overstressed and underpowered
trucks with higher fuel consumption and maintenance costs. There is little
enforcement of regulations concerning vehicle overloading, safe operations of
trucks, design standards for truck modification or trailer manufacture.
Hazardous cargoes are treated no differently than other cargoes, and efforts
have yet to be made to reduce vehicle pollution.
1.05     jigbyiM.  Although Pakistan's network of paved roads increased from
about 8,000 km in 1947 to nearly 49,000 km in 1986, the capacity of key trunk
roads is inadequate. Also their carriageways are in need of improved
maintenance and rehabilitation, resulting in higher vehicle operating costs
than on better maintained roads. The factors accounting for the inadequate
highway network are: (a) the rapid growth in traffic during the past 20 years
and the high proportion of heavily-laden trucks in the traffic flow; and
(b) the inadequate expenditures, planning and management of highway programs.
By 1978 the management and financial needs for maintenance and upgrading of
major trunk roads had overwhelmed the Provincial highway departments.   The
National Highways Board (NHB) was created in 1978 as an agency of the Federal
Ministry of Communications, to take responsibility for the National Highway
Network, then some 4,000 km. of interprovincial and international routes
formerly the responsibility of the four provincial Communication and Works
departments.
1.06     The National Highway Network has grown to 6,600 km. and NHB now
employs over 1,100 staff including about 100 engineers. Oversight of NHB's
activities is by a Board chaired by the Federal Secretary of Communications
assisted by the secretaries of the four provincial C and W departments.
Management is by a director-general who reports to the Federal Secretary. NHB
has been organized on geographical/ad-hoc lines, with a director for each
province and ad-hoc organizations for all major projects and a separate
organization for maintenance which is executed exclusively by contract. The
present organizational structure is no longer appropriate to NHBI's current and
evolving role, and operating procedures are inadequate and vary from job to
job. GOP is planning a major reorganization to address these shortcomings,
which would be supported by the proposed project.
1.07     Rallwy.s.  PR's experience has been typical of many railways which
have faced growing competition from road transport. Shorter distance traffic
has been lost and PR has been slow to develop competitive services. Rail
traffic is now concentrated on a few routes that have long distance freight
and passenger movements. About 95 percent of total rail traffic is carried on
half of PR's 8,800 km system. Freight traffic comprises mainly public sector
regulated commodities such as foodgrains, petroleum products, cement and
fertilizers. Growing financial deficits, which reached Rs. 2.8 billion in
1988/89, have led to inadequate renewal of assets, declining locomotive
utilization due to shortage of spares, and deteriorating quality of services.



. 3 -
1.08     Despite the emergence of modern road transport in Pakistan, long
distance freight and express passenger rail services have remained economic
and, at the time of the 1985 tariff increases, were financially profitable.Y
However, the poor service quality, and capacity constraints due to obsolete
operating procedures has resulted in some traffic that could be carried more
economically by rail being diverted to more costly road transport. Such
diversion has not been caused by price distortions between the road and rail
modes. Road freight tariffs are competitively determined and intercity bus
fares have been adjusted over time to allow for inflation. Road user charges
from trucks are sufficient to pay for the road costs they cause. Rail tariffs
on long distance services have been close to costs.
1.09     The profitability of freight and long distance passenger service has
eroded since 1985 by increasing costs not being compensated by tariff
adjustments. Wages and pensions have risen and account for two-thirds of
railway expenditures. Also, employment grew from 125,000 in 1985/85 to
133,000 in 1989/90. With an average of 4,500 staff retiring annually, a
recruitment freeze would have a major medium term impact on staff numbers and
costs. Also the capacity of PR's factories and workshops far exceed the
railway'a needs and their overhead costs are a financial burden.
1.10     PR is a government department.  Until 1982 the Railway Board was an
executive Board and reported to the Ministry of Railways. In 1982, the Board
was merged with the Ministry with Board Chairman and Members becoming
Secretary and additional Secretaries respectively. Executive functions were
to be transferred to the General Manager, but with the Railway Chairman and
Board Members being the senior railway professionals, they have continued to
have executive involvement. This has resulted in a lack of accountability
since the policy, review and evaluation functions are combined with executive
functions.
1.11     PR's organizational structure, financial relationship with GOP and
its accounting practices are rooted in the Railway's traditional role as a
public service/defense related organization and government departrant. There
has been confusion about whether PR is to serve social or commercial needs.
Neither GOP nor PR has developed clear objectives or performance criteria for
the railway, and PR is not compensated for the many loss making Public Service
Obligations (PSO) it is required to undertake.Y Successful development of
commercial freight and passenger services in a competitive market will require
major institutional, financial and management changes.
1/    System-wide rail freight costs per ton km were 75% of road costs but
only 501 for long hauls and 401 for unit trains (Table 1.3). Costs per
passenger km on high capacity express trains between Karachi and Lahore
were only 50X of bus costs, but branch line and other stopping trains
had per passenger costs five times higher than bus costs.
2/    PSO include, but are not limited to, uneconomic services and excess
labor.



- 4 -
1.12     Within overall parameters set by GOP, PR needs Institutional and
financial autonomy. The management climate needs to change from that
prevailing when the railway had a monopoly of mechanized transport. Decision-
making and the organizational structure gives too much importance to technical
instead of commercial considerations. Investments have not been prioritized
in accordance with business needs. Outdated operating procedures have been
tolerated and discipline has deteriorated. The latter was a major factor
contributing to a tragic accident in early 1990. Both GOP and PR now
recognize the need for major restructuring of the Railway and implementing
this would be supported by the proposed project.
1.13     Trade Logaistics.'  Not only are Pakistan's trade logistic costs
inflated by the road and rail inefficiencies discussed above, but logistics
constraints also handicap the competitiveness of Pakistan's exports and are a
barrier to industrial expansion. Pakistan"s transport system remains
traditionally oriented while trade facilitation, such as documentation,
clearance, through movement facilitation, and electronic data interchange have
not been modernized. Pakistan's international trade is also handicapped
because little has been done to improve port cargo handling and clearance.Y
Berth productivity is low, and cargo is handled without modern handling
methods and equipment.
1.14     Pakistan lacks specialized facilities for bulk commodities and GOP's
cost plus formula for reimbursing transport costs of public sector commodities
has reduced the incentive for selecting the least cost transport mode or for
investing in modern bulk handling technology. The lack of storage facilities
for bulk cargoes at the ports also strains Pakistan's domestic transport
system which has to move a large volume of wheat and fertilizer from the port
in a short time. Under emergency conditions in 1978, GOP established its own
army-based trucking operation, the National Logistics Cell (NLC), to
supplement the railway and private trucking fleet in the movement of public
sector imports of wheat and fertilizer from the port. NLC, which now accounts
for about 51 of freight ton-kms moved by road, has purchased modern high-
powered vehicles but does not use them intensively. The priority given to NLC
in the movement of politically sensitive commodities, has deprived other
transport operators of attractive contracts.
1.15     Aviati n. Air transport has an important share of the passenger
traffic between Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. Secondary and feeder airports
and services have, however, grown haphazardly in response to political rather
2/    Trade logistics includes freight transportation,  packaging, handling
storage,  inventory  control,  and  related  information  processes  and
financial services. Logistics costs as a proportion of delivered prices
typically range between 30-501.
2/    Pakistan has expanded its port facilities  to meet increased cargo
traffic; Karachi Port, which was Pakistan's only port until the early
1980s, added berths and a second port was built at Qasim. Karachi and
Qasim ports serve the same hinterland and transportation system and the
optimal development is for the two ports to complement one another by
Karachi specializing in containers and general cargoes and Qasim
developing dry bulk cargo handling facilities.



- 5 -
than economic demands. Domestic services are provided by the government-owned
Pakistan International Airlines (PIA). Revenues from PIA's primary domestic
services have covered coats, secondary and feeder services have been making
losses of about Rs. 0.3-0.4 billion per year which is cross subsidized by
profits on PIA's international services.
B. Ingstitutional Setting
1.16     Various Federal ministries and ProvincLal governments share
responsibility for the transport sector. At the Federal level, there is the
Ministry of Communications (Roads, Ports and Shipping, Posts and
Telecommunications), the Ministry of Railways and the Ministry of Defense
(Civil Aviation and the army associated National Logistics Cell (NLC)). The
Ministry of Communications includes in its portfolio the National HiEhways
Board (NHB), Karachi Port Trust (KPT), Port Qasim Authority (PQA) and the
Pakistan National Shipping Corporation (PNSC).V  There is no Ministry of
Transport to assess and decide on inter-modal priorities or to undertake
comprehensive reviews of transport needs and policies. Day to day
coordination is through Cabinet committees. The Provincial Governments are
responsible for provincial roads and provincial bus companies. District and
Municipal governments have responsibility for rural and urban roads
respectively.
1.17     With a few exceptions, individual ministries and agencies undertake
little analysis of subsector issues and policies. This task is undertaken by
the Planning and Development Division of the Planning Commission which
prepares the national five year development plans and the annual Public Sector
Development Program (PSDP), as well as reviewing individual investment
proposals. However, the Planning Division has relied on outside assistance
for policy analysis; its own staff are mainly involved in the investment
reviews.
C. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.18     Since 1952, the Bank has assisted the transport sector with a series
of eleven railway (three projects in the former East Pakistan), four highway
and four port projects, totalling US$561 million equivalent. Project
Completion and Performance Audit Reports found that the more recent of these
projects made important contributions to expanding capacity in the ports
subsector, to rehabilitating infrastructure and to introducing new operational
1/    PNSC carries about 20X of Pakistan's dry cargo and foreign registered
ships the remainder. PNSC's financial situation has been precarious and
a recent study recommended an extensive program to restructure PNSC into
a viable operation.



- 6 -
and maintenance methods in the road and rail subsectors.Y There was,
however, less success with policy measures to improve productivity and
efficiency, particularly in railway projects.
1.19        The Third and Fourth Highway Projects began the difficult and at
times frustrating task of developing local contractors within the road sector.
Nevertheless substantial progress has been made in introducing modern design
and quality control methods into the construction of heavily trafficked major
highways. The projects have also assisted institutional growth, procedural
reforms and the introduction of measured maintenance procedures based on a
pavement management system. Progress in these areas has lead to the highway
component of the proposed project.
1.20     Implementation of recent railway projects was slow and the Eleventh
Project was closed with only 51X of the credit disbursed. Implementation was
delayed because PR gave little urgency to obtaining GOP approval for project
components. Also the operational and financial targets set for Pakistan
Railways were not reached. In retrospect, the Bank had been over-optimistic
about how quickly the railway management could begun to respond to the
challenge of road competition. As such it would have been better to delay
appraisal until it was clear that the Railway Board and GOP understood the
need for adjustment and was willing to take the necessary measures. Since the
closure of the last project in December 1985, the Bank has discussed with GOP
and PR future role of the railway and the measures needed to achieve it. This
dialogue has formed the basis for the railway component of the proposed
project.
1.21     The only ongoing transport project is the Fourth Highway Project
(1987, US$152 million) which is assisting in the rehabilitation of about 650
kms of National Highway N-5, and in improving NHB's management of both
maintenance planning and execution and of a larger program of highway
rehabilitation. In addition, the Bank has prepared a port project proposed
for FY91, to assist Karachi port improve cargo handling productivity, and
expand liquid cargo handling facilities.
1.22     The proposed reform oriented project has evolved out of
recommendations outlined in a 1986 Transport Sector Report prepared by the
Bank to assist GOP develop a coherent and achievable sector reform program. A
consensus has evolved on the need for improved highway management and
maintenance and for fundamental changes in the role and operations of the
railway to remedy the situation described in para. 1.18. In addition an
agenda has been outlined for the development of road transport and trade
logistics.
1J    Ninth Railway Project Completion Report (1981) and Audit Report (No. 3964),
Tenth Railway Project Completion Repirt (No. 5767), Eleventh Railway
Completion Report (1988), Third Highway Project Completion Report (1988)
and Third and Fourth Karachi Port Project Completion Report (1988) and
Audit Report (No. 6532).



. 7 -
1.23     The reform program supported by the proposed project excludes
Provincial transport as well as ports and aviation issues. ADB and USAID are
assisting Provincial Highways.   Urban transport issues are included in
ongoing and proposed urban projects (Karachi Special Development Project,
Punjab Urban Project and the proposed FY92 Sindh Urban Development Project).
Aviation issues are not dealt with because of lack of Bank involvement with
the subsector and because resource mobilization efforts were greatly
strengthened in 1989 when domestic air fares were raised by 30X and a lOX tax
imposed on air fares.
II. SECTOR STRATEGY AND REFORM PROGRAM
A. Sector Strategv
2.01     Although Pakistan's basic transport network is in place and the road
transport industry is basically competitive, transport costs are high. There
is a clear need for rehabilitation of highway and railway infrastructure, for
improvement in operational efficiency and for the adoption of new transport
technology. Given the poor state of the overall transportation system and the
expectation that transport demand will more than double by 2005, the challenge
for transport policy makers is how best to ensure that the transport capacity
is expanded efficiently within the limited resource availability. By the year
2005 Pakistan would need a transport system consisting of:
(a)     Infrastructure. Rehabilitated, well maintained highways of
adequate capacity. Rehabilitated railway system between
Karachi and major cities in Punjab.
(b)     Freight Transport.  Specialized heavy-duty truck fleet
operating out of modern freight terminals. Unit freight
train movements of bulk commodities and containers using
modern high capacity wagons.   Modern specialized cargo
handling equipment at Pakistan's ports. Improved trade
logistics.
(c)     Passenger Transport.  Quality intercity bus services and
purpose built terminals. Improved long distance railway
services on high density routes. Greater diversity of
secondary aviation services.
2.02     To realize the above, the transport policy objectives would be:
(a)     efficient utilization of the existing transport system,
through modernization, rehabilitation and fostering
complementarily between road and rail;
(b)     augmenting the transport capacity in the form of investments
and adoption of new technologies; and
(c)     adapting institutional arrangements to induce modernization.
Specific strategies to make full use of capacity include enhancing the role of
rail transport to improve the modal allocation of traffic, as road transport
alone can not serve the economy efficiently. With the concentration of



traffic on the Karachi, Lahore and Peshavar corridor, international experience
indicates that with a co_mrcially oriented management, improved operating
efficiency and modern freight wagons, the railway could successfully compete
with road transport for the long distance movement of bulk commodities such as
foodgrains, fertilizer, cement, petroleum products and for container traffic.
To use fully existing transport capacity also requires improved railway and
highway maintenance, improved utilization of trucks, and improved handling of
containers and break bulk cargoes.
2.03     Investment expenditures would be needed to meet traffic demand.
Highway expenditures programs would need to exceed their historical level and
have an improved balance between maintenance, rehabilitation and new
construction. For railways, the emphasis would be on maintenance,
rehabilitation and modernization, but would exclude rehabilitation of most
branch lines. Rationalization of inmestment is needed in the development of
Karachi and Qasim ports, and in aviation infrastructure. Institittinal1
arrangements should also be modified through provision of autonomy to various
operating agencies. Greater resource mobilization efforts would assist
financing investments. Improved efficiency, a reduction of the labor force
through staff attrition and closure of uneconomic services would reduce
railway losses.
2.04     Greater gryvae involvement is needed in the sector in order to
reduce operating losses and to raise investment funds. Increased reliance on
private transport operators would reduce the public resources being absorbed
by provincial bus services, NLC, and PNSC. For PR considerable scope exists
for involving the private sector through joint ventures and leasing
arrangements for raising capital and management participation in specific
activities such as the development of container services. Tax and tariff
changes would mobilize resources from road, rail and aviation users. GOP
expenditures could also be reduced if GOP paid commercial rates for transport
of foodgrain and fertilizer instead of the higher rates being paid to NLC.
B. Sector Reform Program
2.05     GOP's transport sector objectives and policies are in line with the
overall sector strategy discussed above. This is evidenced by two documents.
The first is the Seventh Plan (1988/89-1992/93). The second is the December
1988 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) describing medium-term macro-economic
policies and structural adjustment measures, the latter includes transport
sector reform measures. The PFP measures were adopted to deal with the
macroeconomic imbalances that had emerged by 1988 following a decade of
impressive economic performance. The fiscal deficit, inflation and the trade
deficit were all increasing and a number of structural constraints persisted.
The low savings and investment rates, together with the neglect of physical
infrastructure and social sectors could no longer sustain economic growth at
5.5% or above per annum.   The PFP transport measures include: improving
highway sector planning and introducing modern methods of construction,
maintenance and rehabilitation; and a restructuring program for Pakistan
Railways to reduce its losses and increase its ability to compete with road
traffic. The trucking industry is to be developed. Taxes, fees and user
charges in the sector are to be adjusted. An adequate expansion of transport



capacity is to be achieved through giving priority to those investments and
maintenance needed to make up for past neglect of infrastructure. The PFP
thus intensifies the implementation of transport sector reform policies in
order to meet the Seventh Plan's objectives, and reorients expenditure
programs to focus resources on priority needs.
2.06    These PFP transport measures would have important macroeconomic
implications. They would help curtail the overall fiscal deficit by a
reduction in the Railway's losses which in 1988/89 amounted to 51 of the
overall budgetary deficit. Increased revenues from road users would also add
to total government revenues. Rationalized railway and highway expenditure
programs with more emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation would ultimately
reduce budgetary demands. The sector reforms would assist in improving the
balance of payments performance by measures to reduce transport and logistics
costs and thereby improve the competitiveness of Pakistan's exports. The
reforms would also assist in improving economic performance through improving
transport efficiency while the core investment and maintenance program would
ensure expansion of transport capacity.
2.07    The investment and maintenance program and the policy and
institutional reforms to be supported by the proposed project are integral
parts of the PFP adjustment process. During negotiations. GOP agreed on
Action Plans for (i) Transport Sector Reform (Annex 2.1): (ii) NHB
Institutional Strenethenlng and Maintenance Program Imnlementation (Annex
2.2): and (iLi) Railway Restructuring. Business Development and Operational
Imnrovements (Annex 2.3) together with annual implementation reviews with the
Ban to take place bv March 31 each year.
core Investment and Maintenance Program (CIMP)
2.08    The Seventh Plan proposed an investment program to ensure continued
increase in the transport system's capacity. The transport sector allocation
is Rs. 52 billion (1987/88 prices), keeping the sector's share in total
allocations at about 13X (Table 2.1). The Seventh Plan includes, however,
many low priority projects and assumed unrealistically fast implementation
schedules. Implementation during the first 2 years of the Plan was only Rs. 5
billion expenditures in 1988/89 and about Rs. 7 billion budgeted for 1989/90,
both in current prices. To ensure that priority is given to those
expenditures needed for adequate growth of transport capacity in support of
future economic growth, GOP and the Bank have prepared a Core Investment and
Maintenance Program (CIMP) for the National Highways and for Pakistan Railways
for 1990/91-1992/93 (the last three years of the Seventh Plan) (Annex 2.4).
The CIMP corresponds to priority items of the overall highway and railway
development programs for the period 1990/91-1992/93 together with critical
recurrent maintenance expenditures, giving a total of Rs. 7.5 billion
(US$349 million) for Highways and Rs. 5.9 billion (US$276 million) for
railways. During negotiations. GOP agreed on: (i) the size and composition of
the CIMP for the period 1990/91-1992/93: and (Li) a financing nlan. The
Lmolementation and budgetary grovisions for CIMP would be reviewed annually
with the Bank no later than March 31 each year.



- 10 -
2.09     The National Highway CIMP emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation
as well as accelerating the highway upgrading programs currently being
implemented. The CINP includes routine and periodic (Resurfacing and
Strengthening) maintenance together with the rehabilitation of road sections
no longer in a maintainable state. Because of past inadequacies, certain
sections of existing carriageways have ceased to be maintainable. NHB has
carried out temporary repairs to prevent the carriageway condition becoming
dangerous but special rehabilitation is needed.   A Maintenance Backlog
Reduction Program (MBRP) has been included in the CIMP. Other portions of the
backlog are also being addressed under ongoing projects which include the
rehabilitation and expanded capacity of N-5. This is being assisted by the
Bank's Fourth Highway (Ln. 2814-PAK) Project. The Bank review of the proposed
expenditures in the highway sector suggests that the Kharian-Attock section of
N-5 should receive highest priority for reconstruction and upgrading to a
modern 4-lane standard. Work on this project has been delayed because of
protracted negotiations with private financing interests. If private
financing does not materialize, the proceeds from the Fourth Highway Loan
would be used to begin work on this section. Further, this section would
receive priority attention under the RSP component of the proposed project to
keep this vital artery open to traffic. The other priority is upgrading the
N-55 National Highway. which runs from Lower Sindh to Peshawar on the West
Bank of the Indus, into a modern two lane highway, in order to assist
development of the West Bank area and to provide additional capacity for
intercity traffic; Japanese (OECF) assistance has been obtained for N-55.
Provincial highway expenditures are excluded from the CIN? because GOP has
only limited jurisdiction over them. The CIMP represents a satisfactory
balance among maintenance, rehabilitation and capacity expansion.
2.10        Railway development expenditures during 1988/89-1989/90 were
largely limited to completing ongoing works. PR has been severely handicapped
by reduced locomotive availability due to a shortage of foreign exchange to
purchase locomotive spares during the past 3-4 years. The Railway CINP
concentrates efforts in the first 2 years on restoring the railway's assets
through making up deficiencies in locomotive spares and track maintenance, and
improving existing wagons in order to get maximum output with minimum
expenditures. Once a commercial orientation is developed, the CGIN would
shift emphasis in about 1992/93 to capacity increases and modernization
through high capacity freight wagons, modern passenger coaches, possible
limited electrification, and additional/rehabilitation locomotive
requirements. Financing for the modernization and locomotive program is not
yet identified but once the restructuring changes are underway, the Bank would
propose to work with GOP, PR and other donors to finalize a 5-7 years
modernization and locomotive package.
Trucking Industry DeveloDment
2.11     Large, well-established trucking firms are now emerging that would
have the finance and experience to run a modern trucking business. Road
transport was declared an industry in 1988, and given access to normal
industrial tax and credit facilities. Buy-back agreements (Annex 2.5) with
foreign component suppliers would be a way to broaden the deletion program



- 11^
(para. 1.04).   This would permit import of components for high-powered heavy-
duty vehicles, for which domestic production of 500-1,000 units per year is
unrealistic, to be offset by export of, say engine castings for use by the
international component supplier.
2.12     To accelerate the pace of trucking industry development and to
improve safety standards, GOP plans to hold a trucking industry development
workshop among the various parties involved in the industry, before June 30,
1991 to prepare a detailed action plan. The Sector Action Plan (Annex 2.1)
includes that GOP would prepare plans to (i) develop and implement plans to
develop the trucking industry; and (ii) to permit the introduction of
efficient high capacity vehicles into Pakistan's private sector truck fleet.
Highwa  Develg=mep
2.13     Highway Institutional Strengthening.  NHB has not been formally
established as a public service institution and as, an ad hoc body, has been
unable to attract sufficient numbers of permanent staff of high quality. Also
its operating procedures have not been firmly established, and it lacks
standardized procedures, rules, documents and manuals, resulting in matters
which should be handled internally being delayed by outside reviews.  Recent
organizational and staffing studies by GOP's Organization and Management
Division and the US Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) have provided a
satisfactory blueprint and action plan for reorganizing NHB. The
reorganization would be based on the principles of functional administration,
decentralization and autonomy.
2.14     Agreement was reached at negotiations with GOP on the basic structure
of the groposed organizational structure for NHB as shown in Charts 1 and 2
and as described in Annex 2.6. The implementation schedule for the proposed
reorganization is detailed in the NHB Action Plan (Annex 2.2).
2.15     Resource Mobilization.  Tax revenues collected from road users have
exceeded expenditures on roads because gasoline has provided a suitable base
for general government taxation. Revenues from effective petroleum product
taxes (retail price less border prices less distribution/marketing costs)
amount to about 50X of total revenue from road users, but have not been a
dependable source because there was no built-in mechanism for ensuring that
retail petroleum product prices change as international prices change. By
holding retail prices relatively firm as international oil prices fell, there
was a major increase in revenues between 1983 and 1986, but since then
revenues have been eroded by rising oil prices and rupee devaluations.
CIF+
Retail      Distribution and
Rs./litre                     Price          Mark-Un Costs
Gasoline         1986         7.51 IA            2.66               4.85
1989         7.58 IA           3.79                3.79
Diesel           1986         3.95               2.22               1.73
1989         3.85              3.53                0.32
La Weighted average of the two grades of gasoline sold in Pakistan.



- 12 -
Restoring the 1986 rates of effective taxation would generate an additional
Rs. 1.6 billion per year from gasoline and Rs. 5.9 billion from diesel (801 of
which is used in transport). Accordingly, to generate resources for the
government budget, GOP committed under the SAF program with the IMN to pass
through to domestic consumers the full increase in the international price of
crude by July 1990, and to follow this procedure in the future. In March
1990, GOP raised the price of gasoline by 16X and diesel by 8X, generating an
additional Rs. 1.9 billion and Rs. 1.3 billion respectively from road users
annually. The Sector Action Plan (Annex 2.1) includes agreement that GOP
would continue compliance with the pass through policy.
2.16     NHB is preparing a policy paper with recommendations on the scope for
further resource mobilization from road users. The Sector Action Plan
(Annex 2.1) includes agreement that NHB would update the paper each year and
would discuss the paper with the Bank by March 31 and that NHB/MOC would
discuss the paper with MOF by April 30 every year.
2.17     Maintenance Priorities.  Periodic maintenance (resurfacing and
strengthening) has not received the same priority as new construction, and
selection of individual road segments for such maintenance work has been
according to local rather than network priorities. NHB's newly developed
maintenance intervention system now makes it possible to rectify this. About
Rs. 0.5 billion annually for periodic maintenance plus Rs. 0.4 billion for
routine maintenance needs to be allocated on the basis of the intervention
system. The former would in part substitute for the program selected and
implemented by the provinces on behalf of NHB.   Asreement was reached with
GOP during negotiations. that Reriodic and routine maintenance programs would
be selected in accordance with the maintenance intervention system, in
consultation with the Bank.
Railway Restructuring
2.18     Pakistan Railways is at a critical stage.  If the situation
prevailing during 1970-1985 were to continue, the railway's decline would
prove irreversible; particularly since road competition will intensify during
the next 10 years. Thus the efforts being supported by this project may
represent the last chance for Pakistan to realize the potential for the
railway as an effective part of its transport system. Railway recovery will
require restructuring the relationship between PR and the Government,
undertaking major management reforms, developing commercial orientation and
business skills, and increasing operational reliability and efficiency.
2.19     In October 1989 the Cabinet requested the Chairman of the
Consultative Committee on Economic Policy to prepare comprehensive
recommendations to make PR an efficient and financially viable organization.
The recommendations were discussed and approved by the Cabinet on April 30,
1990. The measures are summarized as follows:



- 13 -
(a)     The Railway Board to become a Policy and Review Board with
outside members and the General Manager to have executive
powers;
(b)     PR's manufacturing units to be grouped into separate
corporations to enable them to diversify their operations,
become self-financing and ultimately to be privatized;
(c)     PR to enter, where possible, into joint venture and leasing
arrangements with the private sector for raising capital and
management participation.
Financial Measures
(d)     The Railway Budget along with a Corporate Plan to be
presented separately from GOP budget;
(e)     Financial accounts for the Railway operations and the
manufacturing units to be separated; and
(f)    .:)P to take direct financial responsibility for public
service obligations (PSO).
The Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3) includes the restructuring measures. I
addition. at negotiations. agreement was reached with GOP/PR that. as an
effectiveness condition. GOP would issue a Gazette notification implementing
item (a) above. Agreements reached at negotiations relating to item (d) above
are discussed in garas. 2.21 and 5.04 and to item (e) and (f) above in para.
5.05. Agreements reached at negotiations on actions needed for implementing
the restructuring are: (i) surplus staff to be reduced through attrition
(para 5.06); (ii) a cost reduction and closure program for uneconomic services
(Annex 2.3); (iii) increased tariffs (para. 5.20) and (iv) management and
personnel policy reforms (Annex 2.3) and (para. 2.20).
2.20     Under the new organization, the additional General Manager (Business)
will become the driving force in a commercially oriented enterprise, and the
operational and technical departments will perform a service function to meet
the commercial needs. The Business Department will be organized into
divisions corresponding to the main business activities of the railway, (see
Chart 3 and Annex 2.7). A plan for establishing the department is given in
the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3). At neggtiations. agreement was reached
with GOP/PR that as an effectiveness condition. the General MNnaaer would
issue orders establishing a Business Denartment and anpointing the Additional
General Hanager (Business).
The medium-term goal is to change PR from a Government department to
a public corporation within 5 years. Because of its poor financial
situation such an autonomous status is not possible at present and a
transitional period is needed.



- 14 -
2.21     PR's first Corporate Plan would be published along with the Railway
Budget in June 1990. The draft Plan is satisfactory as a first attempt but
will be refined in subsequent years. The Plan contains a business plan for
development of commercial services based on (i) a profitability analysis of
railway activities; (ii) a market analysis and traffic projections; (iii) an
operating plan to carry projected traffic; (iv) an investment plan; and (v) a
financial plan. The Plan also provides a framework for implementing the
restructuring policies, including (a) revised management structure; (b)
personnel policy changes; (c) estimating the effective staff strength needed
and preparing an attrition plan; (4) tariff proposals; and (e) measures to
reduce costs of uneconomic services.  AgXeement was reached with GOP at
negotiations that as a condition for Board 2resentation the Corporate Plan
would be gublished along with the June 1990 Railway Budget.
2.22     A major overhaul of railway operating 2ractIces is needed to improve
service quality and reduce unit costs in order to compete successfully with
road transport. On the freight side, the emphasis would be on faster and more
reliable wagon turnaround by running block, and where possible unit trains
between customers terminal sidings equipped with specialized facilities to
speed loading/unloading. On the passenger side, the emphasis would be on
running trains between major cities and with a minimum of intermediate
stoppages.
2.23     PR has taken initiatives to strengthen its freight operations.
Beginning in July 1989 a major international shipping line has chartered a
weekly container train between Karachi and Lahore. A major program to improve
freight train operation between Karachi and Lahore was begun in June 1989 and
has had impressive results. Wagon turnaround has been improved by eliminating
unnecessary stoppages of trains for en-route examination, and freight
locomotive utilization improved by eliminating unnecessary shed visits so as
to keep locomotives in continuous use between weekly maintenance. Additional
measures have been agreed with PR (Annex 2.8) and ar- included in the Railway
Action Plan (Annex 2.3). When fully implemented, the overall operational
improvement program would result in wagon turnaround time declining by 5 days,
locomotive utilization improving 30X and freight capacity increasing by 201 on
the key Karachi-Lahore-Peshawar corridor.
Trade Logistics
2.24     The strains on the transport system resulting from the peak movements
of some bulk commodities, could be avoided by improving storage and handling
facilities and by permitting all operators to compete with NLC for contracts.
GOP's foodgrain and fertilizer procurement and distribution policies would
also need to provide incentives to invest in modern bulk facilities.
Accordingly GOP would undertake studies to (i) develop an overall policy and
program for improving bulk commodity logistics (ii) determine the future role
of the National Logistics Cell; and (iii) determine the feasibility of bulk
foodgrain and fertilizer facilities at Port Qasim. The Sector Action Plan
(Annex 2.1) includes agreement that the studies would be completed by
September 30, 1991 and that GOP would discuss the studies results with the
Bank and mutually agree with the Bank on an action plan and implementation
schedule by December 31, 1991.



- 15 -
2.25     The International Trade Facilitation Workshop which was held in
Karachi in October 1989 prepared recommendations for trade facilitation reform
and proposed that a Pakistan Simplification of International Trade Procedures
Committee (PAKPRO) be established to be responsible for simplification of
international trade documentation, procedures and data flows. The Sector
Action Plan (Annex 2.1) includes agreement that the committee would be
appointed by December 1990.
Environmental Aspects
2.26     There is little awareness in Pakistan of the need for special
treatment of the transport of hazardous cargoes or for dealing with accidents
involving such cargoes. Considerable publicity and education are therefore
needed before any enforcement measures could be effective. GOP's Environment
and Urban Affairs Division is developing environmental standards and programs
for Pakistan, and analysis of environmental aspects of projects has recently
been made a requirement for all public sector investment proposals. The
Division has yet to deal with transport of hazardous cargoes or pollution from
automotive emissions and considerable work needs to be done before a program
can be implemented. The Sector Action Plan (Annex 2.1) includes agreement
that by December 1991, the Division would develop programs designed to improve
the safety of transport of hazardous cargoes and reduce automotive pollution,
and that by June 1992 GOP would mutually agree with the Bank on an action plan
and implementation schedule.
Sector Goordination and Planning
2.27     To ensure effective implementation of the sector reform program, GOP
agreed at negotiations to form by October 31. 1990 a senior level
TransRortation Review Committee consisting of the Ministries of Planning.
Finance. Industries. Production. Railways. Communications. Economic Affairs
and Management Services Division of the Cabinet Secretariat under the
Chairmanship of the Planning Commission. The Sector Action Plan (Annex 2.1)
includes agreement that (a) the Management Services Division would undertake a
study by December 31, 1991 on ways to strengthen the project planning and
policy formulation capability of the various agencies, divisions and units
involved in the transport sector, and that by June 30, 1992, GOP would
mutually agree with the Bank on an action plan and implementation schedule,
and (b) studies would be undertaken to assist in the preparation of the Eighth
Plan (1993-1997).
III. THE PRQJECT
A.  Project Objectives
3.01     The principal objectives of the proposed project would be to assist
GOP in:
(a)     implementing a transport sector policy and an institutional
reform program; and
(b)     financing the CIMP which is critical for the success of
implementing the transport sector development strategy.



- 16 -
3.02     The objectives of the highway component are to assist in:
(a)    bringing the National Highways Board to a size, structure,
and level of professional competence reflecting its
responsibilities;
(b)     instituting a CIMP for national highways that is both
appropriate to the nation's needs and sustainable; and
(c)     removing a substantial portion of the backlog of highway and
bridge maintenance rehabilitation and resurfacing so that a
normal and sustainable level of periodic and routine
maintenance will be sufficient to keep the national highway
network at an adequate standard.
3.03     The objectives of the railway component are to assist PR in:
(a)     implementing the restructuring program and establish a strong
business department in order to develop commercial oriented
mianagement;
(b)     implementing an operational improvement program and
supporting it with selective investments to enhance its
effectiveness; and
(c)     ensuring adequate locomotive utilization by removing the
maintenance backlog.
3.04     The objective of the sector reform component is to assist GOP
effectively to implement and monitor the sector reform program.
B. The Project
Hiehab    Q=R==en
3.05     The highway component includes:
(a)     a Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP);
(b)     a Resurfacing and Strengthening Program (RSP); and
(c)     technical assistance and training for the reorganization of
NHB.
3.06     Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program (MBRP). Most of the National
Highway Network was designed and constructed more than 20 years ago by the
provincial Communications and Works Departments, and has experienced traffic
growth averaging 8X per year since construction. A detailed condition survey
revealed that sections totalling 777 km (categories 4 and 5 in Annex 3.1) had
deteriorated to a point where they require reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
major improvement to return them to maintainable condition. The nature of the
work required on these sections is summarized in Annexes 3.2 and 3.3.



- 17 -
3.07     On the basis of economic analysis (paras. 4.04, 4.05), a priority
MBRP has been identified covering about 400 km of the above-mentioned 777 km.
However, the detailed composition of the program will be decided annually in
light of prevailing conditions. The first Xear Rrogram (1990/91) was
confirmed at negotiations (Annex 3.3). Agreement was reached at ne2otiations
that the program-for subsequent years will be decided annually in consultation
with the Bank at least three months in advance of the fiscal year in
accordance with criteria of ranking according to economic 2rioritv
(bepefit/cost ratio) to yield an internAl rate of return of at least 15X. and
that the program will receive the required budgetary allocation.
3.08     The National Highway Network also includes more than 9000 structures
including about 2000 bridges. Because of neglected maintenance and the
absence of a regular inspection scheme, an alarming number of bridges and
culverts are unsafe, or dangerously scoured. Following an
inspection/inventory undertaken as part of the Fourth Highway Project, a
program of urgent repairs has been established, some of which will fall within
lengths of road to be rehabilitated, some of which will be structures only
contracts. The MBRP contract packages include a component for the
reconstruction and repair of culverts and minor bridges, equivalent to 15X of
the highway program.
3.09     Resurfacine and Strengthening Program (RSP).  To ensure that a
further backlog does not reoccur, the CIMP (Annex 2.4) includes a substantial
RSP, which the loan will assist financing on a declining basis. Resurfacing
and Strengthening is planned for some 400 km of the highest priority sections
in categories 2 and 3 totalling 2500 kms. The nature of the works required on
these sections is summarized in Annex 3.2, and will consist primarily of
double/triple surface dressings following repair of existing surface,
shoulders, and side drains. Granular or asphalt concrete overlays would be
laid where indicated by deflection tests. The RSP also makes provision for
urgent culvert and bridge works such as redecking and protection of abutments
and slopes. The comDosition of the 1990/91 RSP program was agreed at
negotiations.  Areement was reached that the Rrogram for subsequent years
would be decided annually in consultation with the Bank at least three months
in advance of the fiscal year in accordance with NHB's maintenance
intervention system and that the Rrogram will receive the required budgetary
allocation.
3.10     The civil works comprising the MBRP and RSP will be designed and
their procurement and implementation supervised by NHB staff and consultants.
Final engineering for the MBRP and RSP is being carried out by international
consultants already employed by NHB under Fourth Highway Project and by local
consultants to be selected. These international consultants will assist NHB's
Maintenance Directorate in the development, management, and technical
oversight of MBRP and RSP, and will continue their present role in developing
a self-sustaining road maintenance capacity within NHB, including development
of road and bridge maintenance policies, standards, systems, and procedures,
and systematic training of NHB staff. The international consultants will be
required to prepare a phased program for transferring their functions and
responsibilities to NHB staff or to local consultants by the end of the
proposed project implementation period. The NHB Action Plan (Annex 2.2) would
include measures to ensu.a a timely, cost-effective and environmentally sound
implementation of NBRP and RSP.



- 18 -
3.11     Reorganization of NHB: The ME Action Plan (Annex 2.2) includes the
organizational strengthening of NHB which is discussed in detail in Annex 2.6.
In support of this, the project includes:
(a)     Four staff-years of technical assistance to NHB to assist in
impl3menting the new structure and introducing the new
policies and procedures;
(b)     Provision to NHB (or MOC) for a period of two yaars, advisors
in the following fields: (i) Planning and Design; (ii)
Construction Management; (tit) Project Finance (in MOC); (iv)
Highway Maintenance; and (iv) Training and Personnel
Management.
(c)    Ten fellowships for a Masters degree program in highway
planning and engineering at overseas institutions, and a
provision for short-term technical visits and professional
courses;
(d)    A study to evaluate computer needs for NHB and to recommend
an appropriate computer architecture and standard software
for the organization; and
(e)     equipment, supplies, and materials to establish a modern
record center in NHB, and provision of communications
facilities (FAX, Telex) for NHB.
3.12     USAID has expressed interest in financing additional training and
assistance for institutional development. NHB will pursue this proposal
directly with FHWA/USAID.
Rail=a Com2onent
3.13     The Railway component includes:
(a)     Institutional Development;
(b)     Operational Improvement Program (Roller Bearings,
Communication Improvement, and Management Information
System); and
(c)     Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction (Spares).
3.14     Institutional Development. The institutional and managerial changes
needed for PR to develop a commercially-oriented business-led approach involve
changing well ingrained traditional habits. In the future the operating and
technical departments would perform a service function and a Business
Department would be established to become the driving force in a profit
oriented enterprise (Annex 2.8). The department would have two functions, the
first would be developing a strategic and tactical approach to the development
and marketing of commercial services. This would also involve having a
leading role in investment planning and decisions including providing detailed
financial justification for investments.   The second function would be sales.
For freight this would be the development of profitable traffic from major
customers, and involve working closely with such customers to appraise the
alternatives for movement of large traffic flows including the types of



- 19 -
wagons, use of circuit working, loading and unloading methods and train load
working. The Business department, which would absorb the current marketing
and commercial departments, would be organized into divisions covering the
Railway's major business activities: long distance/intercity passenger,
freight, containers and local passenger divisions and be supplemented by a
terminal division, a corporate planning division and a support services
division (market research, rates and statistics (Chart 4). To ensure that the
Business Department can quickly and successfully implement its remit, PR plans
a comprehensive program for managing organizational change and developing the
skills needed for a commercially oriented organization. The proposed project
would include seminars, expert assistance in selected areas, overseas training
visits, introducing business attitudes into PR's management training courses
and introduction of computers for use by management (Annex 3.4).
3.15     Ooerating Improvement Program.  Outdated operating practices have
contributed to PR's poor quality of services and its limited traffic capacity.
As indicated in the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3), and discussed in detail
in Annex 2.8. PR plans a major overhaul of its operating practices. The
thrust of PR's freight development strategy is to achieve faster and more
reliable wagon turnaround by running blocked and, where possible, unit trains
on closed circuits of dedicated wagons between customers terminal sidings.
Major problems that would reduce the benefits of such an operating pattern are
(i) delays due to en route wagon examination; (ii) congested main line beyond
Lodhran where the double-track section from Karachi ends; and (iii) lack of
timely information on traffic movements so as to plan freight operations
efficiently.
3.16     Wagon examination has recently been reduced from 5 to 2 inspections
for loaded trains travelling from Karachi to Punjab. Little further progress
can, however, be made as long as most of PR's wagon fleet is equipped with
traditional plain bearings which are susceptible to overheating. If
unchecked, such overheating can cause axle failure resulting in wagon
derailments. About 2,000 incidents of overheating occur annually. To enable
through running of PR's principal freight traffic, without the delays
resulting from en route examinations, the project would include replacing
plain axle bearings on 15,000 four wheel wagons with roller bearings. The
wagons to be converted would be less than 20 years old, and would have a
remaining life of at least 25 years. To ensure that the benefits of running
wagons with roller bearings are obtained at negotiations, agreement was
reached at negotiations with PR that the wagons eauiuned with roller bearing
under the loan will be run in sets consisting of only wagons with roller
bearLnga.
3.17     Alternative low-density single-track routes could be used to avoid
the congested single-track main line route from Lodhran to Lahore and
Rawalpindi. Freight trains for Lahore would go via the Pakpattan-Raiwind
route and freight trains for Peshawar and Rawalpindi via the Samasata-Kundian-
Attock route. Moving freight and passenger traffic on separate corridors
would increase train capacities by 20X on the respective routes. Both routes
are of branch line standard and not currently suitable for running commercial
freight trains to tight and reliable schedules. PR has therefore begun a
program to upgrade these routes.



- 20 -
3.18     Effective control and monitoring of trains between Samasata and
Attock (583 km) and Samasata and Raiwind via Pakpattan (407 kms), and require
an uninterrupted commanications system. Defects in the existing overhead
telephone lines on both routes have made communications unreliable. The
proposed project would include augmenting the present overhead communications
lines on these two routes with (i) UHF radio links to provide uninterrupted
and reliable communication between sections controller and stations and (ii)
VHF base stations for communication between controller and locomotive crew.
To ensure that the full benefit of the improved communications are obtained,
agreement was reached with PR at negotiations that between Kundian and Attock
(al loop capacities extended to accommodate 72 wagon trains: (b) track are
ungraded to accommodate 22 ton axle load locomotives, and (c) banking of
lppded trains is undertaken to avoid load shedding.
3.19     An important requirement for improved operating efficiency is up-to-
date information on train and wagon movements. PR's inability to advise
customers on the status and expected arrival of wagons damages PR's
competitiveness with shippers. A major public complaint with long distance
passenger services is that it is not possible to make a reservation for a
ceturn journey until arrival at the outward destination. This uncertainty
would seriously handicap PR's ability to develop and market its long distance
passenger services in the fuature. Accordingly, PR plans to install a
Managlmt Information System (HIS) to comprise three principal modules:
operations information system (OIS), passenger reservation system (PRS) and
administrative information system (AIS). The OIS primarily consists of a
computerized wagon control system, which greatly improves wagon utilization
and service to shippers by enabling shippers to confirm at any time the
precise status of their consignment.   The PRS will operate much like the
airline reservation and ticketing service. The AIS will cover items such as
stores, fuel distribution, and payroll, and personnel records. The proposed
project would include introducing the OIS and, in four major divisions, the
PRS. Amreement was reached at negotiations that PR would. at a later phase.
imlement the remaining garts of the HIS not financed under the loan.
3.20     Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction (Snares).  Pakistan Railways
needs a large injection of locomotive spares. During the past few years, PR
has been allocated insufficient foreign exchange for spare parts and for
maintaining the inventory required for the unit exchange system for
overhauling locomotives and for replacement/rehabilitation of traction motors.
Locomotive availability and productivity has dropped and out of a total fleet
of 564 locomotives, 46 are out of service for lack of spares and unless spare
part inventories are recouped, the number would rise to 78 by 1991/92. Also
due to inadequate budgetary provision for replacement/rehabilitation of
traction motors, 154 locomotives were running without their full complement of
motors. The impact of this is equivalent to the loss of capacity of 32
freight locomotives and to lessened reliability of 52 passenger locomotives.
In order to increase locomotive availability and hence PR's traffic capacity,
PR wishes to reduce the locomotive spares backlog. This would increase
locomotive availability from 447 in 1990/91 to 480 in 1992/93, or from 79% of
the total fleet to 851 respectively. Accordingly, the project would include
the procurement of (i) spare parts to recommission 46 locomotives; (ii) unit
exchange system component kits and replace some unit exchange assemblies which
are no longer economically repairable together with some machinery needed to



- 21 -
modernize its unit exchange shops;Ji and (iiI) 270 new traction motors and
rehabilitate 660 that can be economically rehabilitated.  In order to grevent
a backlog from re-occurring. agreement was reached at negotiations with GOP
that foreism exchange funds would be made ayailable to PR so that approoriate
levels of expenditures on spares for locomotives financed out of current
b,udgt would be maintAined.
3.21      Sector Reform Com2onent
The sector reform component includes:
(a)     office technology to monitor implementation of sector
programs and of the highway and railway components of the
project. This would include assistance for the unit in the
Ministry of Finance to analyze PR's annual request for PSO
revenues, and an MIS for the Planning and Development
Division to be an effective secretariat for the
Transportation Review Committee; and
(b)     technical assistance for undertaking the studies included in
the Sector Action Plan (Annex 2.1) plus a National Transport
Policy study.
C. Cost Estimates
3.22      The cost estimates given in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 are summarized below:
RL-ees ittlion        USS Millgon     X Forian
Lgal  Foref   IgL Tai Loa   Forian  Tc    Exchance
H1i6aY COMMENT
NWRP                    47.5  747.5  1495.0   34.8   34.8   69.5   50.1
RSP                     360.0  540.0  900.0   16.7   25.1   41.9   59.9
TA,Training & Supervision   114.0   63.0  177.0    5.3    2.9    8.2   35.4
Advisers                 0.0   53.6   53.6    0.0    2.5    2.5  100.0
Be" Costs           1221.5  1404.1  262S.6   56.8   65.3  122.1   53.5
Physical ContingenIes    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Price contingenRies     175.4  167.4  342.8    8.2    7.8   16.0   49.1
Sub-total Nighways  1396.9  1S71.5  2W.4   65.0   73.1  138.1   S2.9
RILU]JAY CCS5Slqgf
Institutional Developant    58.6   98.7  157.3    2.8    4.5    7.3   61.6
Roller Bearings         308.0  462.0  770.0   14.3   21.S   35.8   60.1
Signal 8 Cmmic.          65.0   86.0  151.0    3.0    4.0    7.0   57.1
NIS                      30.0  120.0  150.0    1.4    5.6    7.0   80.0
Locomotive Spares       621.4  1149.4  77Z0.8   28.9   S3.5   82.4   64.9
Bas Costs           1083.0  1916.1  2999.1   S0.4   89.1  139.5   63.9
Physical Contingeniefs   54.2   95.8  1S0.0    2.5    4.5    7.0   64.3
Priee contirngenies     134.7  178.2  312.9    6.3    8.3   14.6   S6.8
Su*-totat Railwys   1271.9  2190.1  3462.0   S9.2  101.9  161.1   63.3
SECTOtR REFtORM PROM     4.3  28.0    32.3    0.2    1.3    1.5   86.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    2673.1  379.6  6462.7  124.4  176.3  300.?   58.6
The unit exchange system permits locomotive overhaul to be accelerated
by exchanging components needing repair with remanufactured units
instead of waiting while the original component is repaired.



- 22 -
Estimates for civil works are based on prices bid for major contracts let
under the Fourth Highway Project during the past twelve months and on the
annually updated schedule of rates for maintenance based on some 200 contracts
annually. Technical assistance costs are based on current rates. Parts and
equipment costs for the railway component are based on preliminary quotations
from PR's usual suppliers, while costs for institutional development and
studies are based on current rates on similar projects in Pakistan.
3.23     Physical contingencies have been applied at 51 on items in the
Railway component, but because of MBRP and RSP program" nature, a lump sum
has been allocated to each item and no physical contingencies are allowed for
the Highway component. Price contingencies have been applied to base costs
throughout, following Regional guidelines viz:-
Ex         90/91     91Z92    92/93    93L94    94/95   ,95/96
Local X     6.8       6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
Foreign X   4.9       4.9       4.9      4.9      4.9      4.9
The foreign exchange component for civil works has been estimated using the
direct and indirect foreign cost; i.e., fuel, and about half the bitumen and
cement, being counted as a foreign cost.
D. Financing Plan
3.24     The Borrower will be the Government of Pakistan and the beneficiaries
will be the National Highways Board and Pakistan Railways. The financing plan
is shown below:-
US$ Millions
Local #    .Foreign      Total
GOP         116.7          0.0       116.7
IBRD          7.7        176.3       184.0
Total       124.4        176.3       300.7
A/ includes taxes of about US$56 million equivalent.
The proposed loan of US$184 million would finance about 751 of the net of tax,
and 611 of the total project cost. This represents 1001 of foreign costs and
3.6 1 of local costs. GOP will pay all taxes and furnish the balance of funds
required in a timely manner. At negotiations agreement was reached that as
conditions of effectiveness,. GOP would furnish evidence to the Bank that
a) the funds needed to carry out the prroect in FY90/91 have been allocated
and b) that ECNEC anproval of the consolidated PCl's for MBRP and RSP and of
the PCl's for Locomotive Recommissioning Unit Exchange. Traction Motor
Components. Roller Bearings and MIS had been given.



- 23 -
E. Prgcurement
3.25     Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
Procurement Method (US$Millions) f
Project Component                             L         Other        tal
Hibehway
Civil Works
MBRP                                -       78.8       -         78.8
(55.2)     -        (55.2)
RSP                                 -       47.6       -         47.6
*      (16.6)     -        (16.6)
Technical Assistance, Training        -        -         7.6 f      7.6
and Supervision                     -        -        (5.5)      (5.5)
Equipment and Supplies                -        -         0.4 W      0.4
-        -       (0.2)      (0.2)
NHB Operating Expenses                -        -         3.7 f      3.7
-        -       (0.0)      (0.0)
Railways
Spare Parts & Equipment             152.5      -          -       152.5
(96.7)     -         -       (96.7)
Institutional Development             -        -         8.6 f      8.6
=        -       (8.3)      (8.3)
Sector Reform Program                 -        0.2       1.3        1.5
-       (0.2)    (1.3)      (1.5)
TOTAL FOR PROJECT               152.5    126.6      21.6      300.7
(96.7)   (72.0)   (15.3)    (184.0)
/    Amounts in parentheses are proposed for financing from the loan.
h/    By consultation via short list.
g/    By international and local shopping.
d/    From NHB's budget.
Highway Component
3.26     Civil works under both MBRP and RSP will be let through LCB because
of their size, their widely scattered nature, and the annual nature of the
programs, which means that the composition of the outer years' programs will
not be known in advance. A standard document in use for the last two years by
NHB and its maintenance contractors will be used. It uses FIDIC conditions,
closely follows the SBDW, and is acceptable to the Bank. All contractors will
be pre-qualified and foreign firms will be allowed to bid. Contracts will be
advertised in batches once or twice a year and may be packaged to encourage
the offering of rebates; this practice will not be universal however so as not
to exclude small local contractors. The first four sets of contracts
documents will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Thereafter, contracts
will be reviewed in the field prior to the first disbursement. Contracts will
be let according to an annual program which will have been agreed with the
Bank. An acceptable economic analysis will be prepared for each road section
or proposed contract prior to bidding.
3.27     NHB proposes to appoint one or two Managing Contractors (MC) to be
responsible for managing the program. This would include pre-qualifying sub-
contractors and subsequently bidding, awarding and managing the
contracts/works. MCs would be chosen according to the Bank's Guidelines for
the selection of consultants. Under this concept of managing the program, an



- 24 -
advertisement has been placed internationally for expressions of interest and
proposals.  However, if satisfactory proposals are not received, then NHB in
consultation with the Bank would adopt an alternative approach by employing a
number of foreign and local consultants to manage appropriate groups of
contracts/works.
3.28     Consultants services.  The civil works components have grown out of
the Maintenance Improvement Program of the Fourth Highway Project, under which
the maintenance intervention system is being developed by HBI's Maintenance
Directorate with assistance from a Danish consulting firm.  NHB has decided to
retain the consultants for oversight of MBRP and RSP under an addendum to
their existing contract under the Fourth Highway Project, because the
development of the program and selection of road sections are so closely
linked to the intervention system. The bulk of the design work and field
supervision will be done by local consulting firms who have worked on the last
two Bank highway projects, and whose work is satisfactory. They will be
selected by procedures conforming to the Bank's guidelines.
3.29     The proposed reorganization structure and the policies and procedures
under which the new NHB will operate are being developed by a Canadian
consultant under their current contract to provide project management services
to NHB for Fourth Highway Project. They have been assisted by a team financed
by USAID from the US Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). Because of the
difficulty of separating the conception and implementation of the
reorganization, NHB proposes to retain the consultants under an extension to
their existing contract. Negotiations are also underway with FHWA and USAID
who may be able to supply, and possibly finance, additional assistance for
implementing the reorganization, and offer training in the USA for a number of
NHB engineers.  The advisors (para. 3.1 (b)) will be sought from FHWA, failing
which they will be recruited as individuals by international advertisement.
3.30     Traiuing and overseas fellowships and visits will be arranged between
NHB and the Bank, with logistic support as necessary by the consultants.
EouiDment and supplies will be purchased through local or international
shopping, following prior review by the Bank of all purchases above US$5,000
equivalent.  NHB operating expenses will not be financed by the loan, but are
included in cost estimates for completeness only.
Railway Component
3.31     Procurement of  lpare garts for recommissioning 46 locomotives, unit
exchange assemblies for locomotive maintenance, 270 new traction motors and
roller bearings for 15,000 wagons will be through ICB. Rehabilitation of 660
traction motors will be through ICB in a supply and service contract, which
will include technical expertise to assist PR in the rehabilitation. Both
hardware and software for telecommunications and the Management Information
System will be procured through ICB, related training/technical assistance
will be included in the supply contracts. Bidding documents for contracts
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more, will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. Contracts for lesser amount would not however exceed an
aggregate value of US$5 million and the individual contracts would also be
subject to ex-post review. It is estimated that about 95S of the number of
contracts for goods will be above the threshold for prior review. Tender
documents will be based on the Bank's Sample Bidding Documents for goods. The
MIS will be developed by a consultant who will help PR identify hardware and
software needs and prepare the bidding documents. The consultant will be



- 25 -
selected following the Bank's Consultants Guidelines, and the consultant's
contract will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Domestic manufacturers
will be eligible to receive 151 preference in bid evaluation. Agement was
reached at negotiations that. as a condition for effectiveness. tender
documents anproved by the Bank shall have been prepared for ti2 at least USS25
million for the locomotive spare 2arts. unit exchange assemblies and traction
motors combined, and Mi) for the roller bearing component.
3.32     The Institutional Development component will consist of consultant
services, overseas training visits and office computer equipment (Annex 3.4).
Consultant services for the following will, where possible, be grouped
together in packages: (i) Management of change advisors; (ii) Commercial
Passenger and Local Passenger Business (PSO) Advisors; (iii) Freight,
Container, and Operational Improvement advisors; and (iv) Training Advisor.
Technical assistance in the areas of Corporate Development, Accounting and
Personnel will be provided by local specialists. Selection of consultants
will be on the basis of terms of reference (Annex 3.5) and proposals received
from consultants in accordance with Bank rules and regulations. Consultants
for Corporate Plan and Costing assistance will be engaged by PR on a sole
source basis with the concurrence of the Bank; these assignments will cost
less than US$280,000 and PR has already identified suitable candidates. All
consultant contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
3.33     Local trainiz (Management reorganization seminars, teaching
assistance for PR's Walton training school staff) will be arranged between PR
and the Bank. Overseas traininu visits in the categories of (i) on the job
training for business and technical managers; (ii) senior management training
course; and (iii) training of Walton instructors would be packaged into a
limited number of umbrella contracts to provide expert assistance and
training. Selection would be on the basis of terms of reference and proposals
received in accordance with Bank rules and regulations. All contracts will be
subject to prior reviews. For overseas training of its staff, PR will select
candidates and clear them with the Bank for its concurrence prior to
commencement of training. Office computer and related equipment would be
purchased through local shopping, following prior review by the Bank for all
purchases above US$10,000 equivalent.
3.34     Studies.  Consultants for the study on railway rehabilitation/
modernization expenditure priorities will be selected on the basis of terms of
reference and proposals received from the consultants in accordance with Bank
rules and regulations. Consultants for other studies will be selected in the
same way. All consultant contracts will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
Sector Reform Component
3.35     This component will consist of consultant services and office
computer equipment. Consultants would be selected on the basis of terms of
reference mutually agreed with the Bank and proposal received from the
consultants in accordance with Bank rules and regulations. Office comuter
and related equipment would be purchased through local shopping, following
price review by the Bank for all purchases above US$10,000 equivalent.



- 26 -
F. Disbursements. Accounts and Audits
3.36     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows:
Percentage of
Allocation         Expenditures
Catego2x    Item                    tUSS'OO)           To Be Financed
Higbwa Cgomonent
Civil Works
MBRP                                    52.0           702 of expenditures
RSP                                     15.0           601 of expenditures incurred
prior to June 30, 1991, 401 of
expenditures incurred after
that date prior to June 30,
1992 and 20X for expenditures
incurred thereafter
Consultant Services and Training         5.5           100 1 of expenditures
Equipment & Services                     0.2           1001 of foreign expenditures
1001 of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and 90X of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Unallocated                              4.8
Total                      77.5
Railway Component
Equipment & Spare Parts                 90.0           1001 of foreign expenditures
Consultant Services, Training,
Visits & Studies                         7.3           10OX of expenditures
Office Technology Equipment              1.0           1001 of foreign expenditures,
1001 of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 901 of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Unallocated                              6.7
Total                   105.0
Sector Reform Program
Consultant Services                      1.3           1001 of expenditures
Office Technology Equipment                            1002 1OO  of foreign expenditures,
1001 of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 901 of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Total                     1.5
Project Total             184.0



- 27 -
A 6 year schedule of disbursements has been established Table 3.3 based on a
modification of the Pakistan Transportation 7 year profile because much of the
proposed project has the nature of a program loan. Because of the risk that
GOP may not be able to provide its full share of funding, for civil works
contracts awarded by NHB after June 30 1991. agreement was reached at
neg2tiations with =OP that as a cgondition of disbursement that funds shall
have been provided in a satisfactory manner at the beginning of each vear's
prog-ram.
3.37     All disbursement requests will be fully documented.  Civil works
payments will be made either by the Managing Contractor or by NHB directly
through the Revolving Pund. The project is expected to be completed by
Dscember 1995 and the loan account will close on June 30. 1296.
3.38     Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million for the Highway component
and up to US$5 million for the Railway component, is proposed to allow
engagement of technical assistance for detailed planning for each component
and design and immediate and prompt letting of contracts at the end of the
1990 rainy season on the highway side, and the placing of orders for urgent
railway spares well in advance of need because of long delivery times.
3.39     Two Special Accounts will be established in US dollars in the
National Bank of Pakistan, with an initial deposit of US$7.5 million for
Highways and US$10.0 million for Railways.  During negotiations. GOP agreed to
maintain separate accounts for the Highway and Railway components
independently. and to have all the accounts of the groject including the
Sr,ecial Accounts. audited at the close of each financial year by an
independent auditor accentable to the Bank. and to furnish such audited
statements to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year for
the HigMhwavAccount and within nine months for the Railway Account. Where
statements of expenditure (SOEs) are used for payments under small civil works
contracts, GOP would retain all documentation for review by the Bank, to
maintain separate records and to have them audited. SOEs would not be used
for payments under contracts for civil works costing more than $100,000.
Withdrawal applications and reimbursement requests will be forwarded to the
Bank by the managers of the Railway and Highway components independently.
Coordination will be provided by Bank staff during supervision missions.
3.40     Monitoring.  Management of the respective investment components will
be the responsibility of NHB and PR. NHB and PR would submit to the Bank in
summary form, quarterly reports covering physical progress, procurement and
disbursement. Management of the sector reform component will by the concerned
agencies, namely Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Communications and Planning
and Development Divisions. The Transport and Communications Section of the
Planning Division would monitor and forward to Bank quarterly progress on the
implementation of CIMP, compliance with the sector reform program covenants
and prepare a project completion report within six months after the project
closing date.
G. Project Supervision
3.41     Three Bank supervision missions per year during the four years of
implementation of major sectoral reforms and project procurement (July 1990 to
June 1994) would suffice to supervise all project activities. For the highway
component, supervision will be combined with supervision of the current Fourth
Highway Project, at least until the end of FY93/94 and possibly for a further



- 28 .
year thereafter, thus approximately halving the cost. Experience has shown
that three missions a year by a highway engineer are necessary to maintain
implementation momentum. The financial analyst who will be monitoring the
railway * vmponent on a regular basis will combine those missions with an
overview of NHB's new accounting and financial arrangement as requested and
the economist will review policy, planning and the investment programs twice a
year. Supervision of the railway component will, because of the complexity of
restructuring, require 3 missions a year involving a railway (commercial)
specialist, a financial analyst and an economist, supplemented from time to
time by specialists in areas including organizational change, operational
matters and engineering topics.
3.42     Supervision of the various items in the Sector Action Plan
(Annex 2.1) would be covered as far as possible in the course of supervision
of the highway and railway components. Supervision of automotive deletion
program would be done in the course of preparation/supervision of the proposed
trade and industry adjustment loan, but supervision of the trucking industry
development action plan will require assistance from a trucking industry
specialist who would also assist with the environmental components.
Supervision of most of the trade logistics items would be covered in the
course of supervision of the proposed FY91 Karachi Port Modernization Project.
The Sector Coordination and Planning items would be supervised during the
regular project supervision missions. In sum, Project supervision would
require about 25 staff weeks per year.
H. Environmental ImRact
3.43    Maintenance and rehabilitation activities are not expected to have
any adverse environmental effects. The Highway component will include
measures to improve drainage, reduce erosion and provide for safety markings,
guiderails and signs on those sections of road included in the MBRP and RSP
contracts. As all works will be carried out on existing alignments, there
will be no requirements for additional land. Upgraded railway wagon axle
bearings will reduce the likelihood of derailments and spillage of cargoes.
In addition the policy reform program would include agreement on developing
proposals and programs to improve the safety of transport of hazardous cargoes
and reduce automobile pollution. The overall environmental impact of the
project is therefore expected to be positive.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01     The proposed project will improve the efficiency of the transport
sector by reducing the costs of road and rail transport. For the road mode,
the benefits of rehabilitating and improving some 800 km of national highways,
with traffic levels ranging from 750 to over 6,000 vehicles per day, will
accrue to highway users in the form of lower vehicle operating costs (VOCs -
reduced fuel consumption, tire wear and general maintenance costs), travel
time savings, and reduced accident rates. In the case of personal vehicles,
all these benefits accrue directly to users, while in the case of goods and
public passenger vehicles the VOC savings accrue in the first instance to the
vehicle owners but generally will be passed on in the form of lower freight



- 29 -
rates and fares, as the road transport industry essentially is competltive
(e.g., 951 of trucks are privately owned by individuals or small private
companies). NHB and thus the general body of taxpayers will benefit from
lower life cycle" costs for the improved roads; that is, the present value of
road outlays will be reduced by doing this preventive work now and avoiding
more expensive reconstruction at a later date. The reduced vehicle emissions
resulting from fuel savings will enhance air quality in the vicinity of the
improved roads.
4.02     For the rail mode, the benefits of restoring the full capacity of the
existing motive power and rolling stock will be in terms of reduced transport
costs for freight and passengers which will benefit the economy at large.
Despite the emergence of modern road transport in Pakistan, long distance
freight and express passenger services remain economic.
B. Costs and Benefits
4.03     All costs and benefits were evaluated in constant January 1990
prices. Financial costs and benefits have been converted to economic prices
by (a) expressing the imported content at c.i.f. prices and (b) applying the
estimated standard conversion factor of 0.8 to local costs/benefits. No
evaluation of the sector reform program benefits was attempted but as
discussed in Chapter II, the sector reform program would address significant
policy, institutional and program issues and would have significant benefits.
Hiehwav Co=monent
4.04     Of the benefits listed above, only VOC and time savings have been
quantified and incorporated in the rate of return calculations, which are
therefore conservative. VOC and time savings have been estimated by
consultants using the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model.
The unit VOC savings are summarized in Table 4.1, while time savings were
valued at the average wage rate for work time, and a third of that rate for
leisure time. Unit costs for the different categories of work are summarized
in Table 4.2.
4.05     All national highway sections surveyed have been subjected to an
economic analysis (Table 4.3 provides an example), and the sections th.en
prioritized in order of benefit/cost ratio. A 3 year program totalling Rs.
2000 million was identified: Rs. 1100 million for roadworks in the Maintenance
Backlog Reduction Program (XBRP) on roads with a condition rating of 4 or 5
(Annex 3.1), and Rs. 900 million for the Resurfacing and Strengthening Program
(RSP) on roads with a condition rating of 2 or 3. The minimum rate of return
on any sub-project admitted is 15X; the average rate of return on the program
as a whole is 541. Rates of return on some sub-projects exceeded 100X.
4.06     Rates of return could not be readily computed for the structures
component of the NBRP, or for the technical assistance and training
components, which together account for about 131 of the total costs of the
road component, but the rates would likely be substantial.
Railway Component
4.07      Roller Bearings for Freight Wagons.  The productivity of existing
wagons is low because few have roller bearings. Trains with wagons having
traditional bearings have to be examined during transit and the resulting



- 30 -
commercial speed is low. Damage to axles also leads to derailments causing
disruption to traffic. An average over 2000 wagons failures due to axles
overheating occur per year and most would be eliminated by converting wagons
to the more reliable roller bearings. By fitting the best 15,000 wagons with
roller bearings, the turnaround time of wagons can be decreased significantly
as intermediate stops can be cancelled. More traffic can be carried with the
same number of wagons and the benefits are in terms of transport cost savings
from the road mode. Assuming a conservative 151 increase in productivity, the
rate of return of this component is estimated at 24X (Table 4.4).
4.08     Communications.  Given the low reliability of overhead telephone
lines, the monitoring and control of trains cannot be done effectively. This
results in train delays and excessive running times. The proposed
communications component would improve the situation on two major alternative
freight routes to the main trunk line. Benefits have been estimated in terms
of train operating cost savings. No benefit have been attributed to quality
of service improvements which would result in greater reliability of arrival
times. The estimated economic rate of return is 231 (Table 4.5).
4.09     &U.  The principal quantifiable benefit of this component is the
improved wagon utilization that results from better control of empty wagons,
and more efficient marshalling operations (because a receiving yard obtains
advance information on the train consist and can plan the marshalling
operations ahead of the train's arrival). International experience with the
introduction of such systems is that they can improve wagon utilization by
more than 10%. The four divisions covered under the project handle over 751
of the total wagons handled in the system. It has been assumed that when the
OIS module of the MIS is in place in these four divisions, wagon utilization
will improve by 7.51, enabling PR to scrap 7.51 of its fleet over a three year
period. This produces a once-for-all benefit (scrap value of the wagons) plus
recurring annual savings from avoided maintenance costs. Locomotive
utilization will also improve but this has not been incorporated in the rate
of return calculations. The rate of return is estimated to be 18X
(Table 4.6).
4.10     Locomotive Maintenance Backlog Reduction (Spares).  Due to a critical
shortage of spare parts, locomotive availability is a low 79% and 46 locos or
71 of the fleet are presently immobilized completely (para. 3.19). Therefore,
traffic which could economically move by rail has to be carried by road at a
higher economic cost. The benefit of this component is in terms of transport
cost savings for freight and passengers. The spares to be procured would
arrest the further deterioration of the locomotive fleet and put the 46
immobilized locomotives back in service, thus increasing the carrying capacity
of the railways. The cost-benefit calculation based on locomotive
productivity and differential between road and rail costs is detailed in Table
4.7. The rate of return is estimated to be 271.
C. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.11     Based on total project costs and the benefits described above, the
overall ERR of the project is 391. Both the road and rail components involve
simple technologies which are well developed in Pakistan. The local
construction industry is fully capable of undertaking the dispersed road
rehabilitation and improvement sub-projects. The railways have experienced
staff in their workshops which can quickly install the spare parts to be
provided under the project, including the roller bearings on existing wagons.



- 31 -
The rate of return of all project components, even conservatively estimated,
is high because of the nature of the project which emphasizes rehabilitation
rather then new investments. The only risk is in possible delays resulting
from shortages of local funds. In this case, the highest priority projects
will be done first and therefore, the return will be higher than the averages
indicated above.
4.12     The main policy reform program risks are: (a) slower than envisaged
pace of institutional reform of Pakistan Railway's restructuring, and
strengthening of National Highways Board; and (b) delays in implementation of
CIMP due to constraints on GOP's resources. To minimize these risks, prior to
effectiveness a Railway Corporate Plan will be published, an extensive
operational improvement program implemented, and proposals for restructuring
of National Highways Board formally approved.
V. RAILWAY FINANCE AND EARNINGS
A. Introduction
5.01    GOP's stated policy is that PR should earn revenues sufficient to
cover all operating expenses (including depreciation) and debt service and
should pay a dividend to the Government. The dividend is payable, however,
only when PR generates a surplus after covering total costs, including debt
service. As GOP determines the level of rates and fares and the costs of most
of PR's inputs (e.g. fuel and labor), the attainment of the policy objective
is frequently frustrated by Government policies which reflect conflicting
objectives.
5.02     Financial arrangements between GOP and PR, accounting procedures and
arrangements for audit are, with some improvements, the same as when the
Eleventh Railway Project was appraised in 1982. The Accounts Department is
preparing timely monthly management and annual accounts. In 1979, PR
completed an inventory of its assets and valued them at replacement cost. It
revalues assets every three years and reflects depreciation at replacement
cost. A costing cell provides information on the profitability of PR's major
business activities. PR's annual accounts are audited by the Auditor-General
of Pakistan and the audit arrangements are satisfactory. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that audited financial accounts will be available to
the Bank no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
B. Financial Restructuring
5.03    GOP is restructuring PR into a business-led organization operated on
a commercial basis. To achieve financially viability PR will be given
institutional autonomy and be held accountable for its operations. Financial
reforms are included in the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3) and are discussed
below.
5.04    Budgets.  Since 1977, PR's annual budget has been approved as part of
GOP's general budget. This diluted the focus on railway issues and problems.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that PR will submit a separate budget to
Parliament for approval starting with FY9lp92. including submission of PR's
CorDorate Plan (para. 2.21) as Rart of the budget package.



v 32 -
5.05    Public Sevgice Ohlieations.  For PR to become financially viable, it
needs the freedom to offer those services which are profitable and eliminate
financially unviable services. GOP under the Railway Action Plan has accepted
this principle; however, GOP for social reasons, would direct PR to operate
and undertake some services on its behalf and would reimburse PR for such
services as Public Service Obligations (PSO). Up to now PR has been incurring
these costs without any direct compensation and this is one reason for PR's
poor financial performance. Such obligations include: uneconomic passenger
services, surplus manpower, police, hospitals and education costs, normally a
commercial organization would not undertake. The uneconomic ordinary
passenger service loss is clearly identifiable now, but a more rigorous
costing exercise is needed to identify revenues and applicable costs of other
PSO services. At negotiations. agreement was reacbgd that PR will initially
estimate and subsequently prepare accounts separated into different traffic
streams. PSO services and manufacturing units beginning for FY9l/92 (nara.
5.Q7). This entails conducting of an Accounting Improvement Study (Annex 2.3
and Annex 3.6) and preparation of commercial accounts on pro-forma basis by
December 31, 1991, and publishing railway accounts on commercial accouncing
principles by June 1, 1992. Aereement was also reached that. as condition for
Board presentation. GOP will reimburse PR for the financial burden of PSO
actlvities and that PSO will be shown as a revenue item in PR accounts.
5.06    Staffing.  PR recognizes the need for reductions in staff strength
through attrition and improvement in efficiency, and a study to estimate the
number of surplus staff and identify an attrition program is included in the
Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3). At negotiations. agreement was reached that
GOP will allow PR to reduce staff through attrition, failing which PR will be
reimbursed for the cost of carrxing surplus staff under PSO. PR, however,
would be able to employ small numbers of new staff in higher professional
grades to meet its commercial needs.
5.07    Manufacturing Unis. PR operates various manufacturing units viz
Locomotive Factory, Risalpur (under construction); Carriage Factory,
Islamabad; Steel Shop, Lahore; the five Concrete Sleeper Factories spread out
over the country; and has other workshops of a manufacturing nature. The
manufacturing units accounts are merged with PR's. Under the Railway Action
Plan, manufacturing activities will be separated from PR's operations and
initially converted into GOP-owned limited liability companies. Subsequently,
they would be privatized. This would enable PR management to focus efforts on
railway operations. Under the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3), manufacturing
units will be identified by July 1, 1990 and conversion of these units into
corporate entities by July 1, 1991 will be accomplished.
5.08    Commercial Accounting and MIS.  As a Government department, PR has to
maintain its accounts according to government accounting codes. The financial
data thus produced by PR is not based on commercial accounting principles.
The proposed Project would assist the initial phase of a computer-based MIS
(para 3.18), but it would take some time for the financial accounting to be
integrated into the MIS. However, under the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3),
PR will maintain separate accounts of its activities on commercial basis, and
the Action Plan includes a study (para 5.05) which would be conducted and
implemented to produce its accounts based on generally accepted accounting
principles for commercial enterprises.



- 33 -
C. M's Financial Profile
5.09    The actual FY88/89 income and expenditure account was analyzed as
representative of PR's financial profile. PR operates about 450 (751)
passenger and 150 (251) freight trains daily. PR's operations have been
separated in the table on page 33 into those services which are or would
become commercially viable and those which would remain commercially unviable.
Income and Expenditure Account. 1988/89
(In Crent Rs. M4illion
Commercially                 Comm.
Viable                 Unviable
Services               Services      Total
~~~~(PSO)
Mail               Luggage
and                  and     Ord.
Freight  Express  Intercity  Parcels   Pass.
Earnings               2,817.2  1,282.8    535.6       522.8      160.0   5,318.4
Var. Costs              1,962.1  1,137.3    447.2       360.5   1,230.8   5,137.9
Gross Inc./(Loss)         855.1    145.5     88.4      162.3  (1,070.8)    180.5
Fixed Costs            1,281.8    708.3    282.9       183.0      480.8   2,936.8
Net Loss                 426.7    562.8    194.5         20.7   1,551.6   2,756.3
5.10    PR generates 971 of its total revenue from services which could be
commercially viable comprising freight (521) parcel/luggage (101), passenger
mail express (251) and inter-city (101). These services cover their variable
costs and a substantial part of their fixed costs. In contrast, the
commercially unviable ordinary passenger service generates only 3X of PR's
total revenues and yet accounts for 211 of the total cost. The FY88/89
deficit of Rs. 2,756 million was made up of deficit of Rs. 427 million (161)
on freight services, Rs. 563 million (201) on mail and express passenger, Rs.
195 million (71) on intercity passenger, Rs. 21 million (M) on parcels and
luggage, and Rs. 1,552 million (561) on ordinary passenger services.
5.11    The ordinary passenger service loss places a heavy burden on PR's
finances. Only Rs. 160 million in revenues is generated whereas the variable
cost alone is over Rs. 1,070 million with fixed cost of another Rs. 480
million, which results in a total loss of over Rs. 1.5 billion. The situation
on some of the ordinary passenger service, which comprises 314 trains equal to
701 of the total 450 passenger trains and over 501 of PR's total 600 trains
operated daily, is so bleak that no effort would render these operations
profitable. On some services, GOP is subsidizing each passenger fare by Rs.
43, about 6 times the fare of Rs. 7 that a passenger pays for a 55 km journey.
Cost reduction measures, phasing out and closure of some of these services
will be addressed under the Railway Action Plan (Annex 2.3). In the meantime,
the losses will be reimbursed by GOP to PR under PSO (para 5.05).



* 34 -
D. Rates and Fares
5.12    The leat tariff increase GOP granted to PR was a 152 across-the-board
in mid-1985, which was barely sufficient for PR to cover its operating costs,
but not to pay any dividend. The absence of any tariff increases since then
has adversely affected PR's financial performance and seriously undermined its
operational capacity and sustainability. To survive, PR imposed a 10S
surcharge on traffic originating from the south of the country, reclassified
commodities into higher scale, made improvements to passenger coaches and
charged the next higher level fare. However, these measures are insufficient
to meet PR's acute shortage of resources. The past neglect has created a
backlog on maintenance and investments. Tariff increases have been proposed
(para. 5.20), the aim of GOP, however, should be to allow PR to negotiate
rates with freight customers under a contractual relationship mutually
beneficial to both parties. This could be done once PR operates on commercial
basis.
E. Past Performance
5.13    PR's actual revenue and expenditure accounts for FY84/85 to FY89/90
are shown in Table 5.1 and summarized below:
Summarv of Revenue and Expenditure 1984/85 - 1989/90
(Year Ending June 30)
--------A c t u a 1-----------------
Account Head            1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989190a
(In Current Rs. Million)
Operating Revenues            3,678   4,361   4,670   5,497   5,318   5,630
Reimbursement on PSO f          930      996   1,150   1,230   1,251   1,248
Total Onerating Revenues      4,608   5,357   5,820   6,727   6,569   6,878
Total Working Expenses        4,332   4,516   4,855   5,410   6,039   6,181
Appropriation to DRFW           631      846     846     846     993     993
Total Oierating ExDenses      4,963   5,362   5,701   6,256   7,032   7,174
Net Onerating Rev/(Loss)       (355)     (5)     119     471   (443)   (296)
Interest on Loans               239     259      495     438     940     553
Appropriation to IF'              79      86      87      96     102      106
Net Rev./(Loss)                (673)   (350)   (463)    (63) (1,505)   (955)
Operating Ratio               107.7   100.1    98.0    93.0   107.0   104.3
Passenger - Km Million       17,807  16,850  16,920  18,541  19,732  20,479
Freight - Ton - Km Million S  7,203   8,270   7,820   8,033   8,364   8,938
Notes:  A/Based on 9 months antual operating results.
k/Public Service Obligations (PSO), reimbursement by GOP to PR.
£/Excludes PR's own departmental traffic.
4/Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF); Improvement Fund (IF)
Source: PR/Transport Sector Mission Estimate, March 1990.
5.14    PR's financial health has declined because: (i) costs have risen
faster than anticipated; (ii) tariffs have not been adjusted; (iii) PR incurs
losses on services it is forced to undertake; and (iv) shortcomings in
management. Had PR been compensated during FY84/85 to FY89/90 for PSO as GOP
has agreed to do under the Railway Action Plan effective July 1, 1990, the
financial position of PR would have been as shown in the above Table FY84/85-
FY89/90 (para 5.11). On this assumption, PSO has been reflected as
reimbursable income in the Table on page 34. As can be seen in the Table in



- 35 -
the absence of tariff increases, PR has performed reasonably well considering
it was able to increase revenues by about 491, while traffic was up by 24X for
freight and 151 for passenger. PR was able to cover its total operating cost
and on average incurred deficits of about Rs. 668 million per annum during the
period FY84/85-FY89/90. Had tariffs been indexed to inflation rates (para.
5.12), as GOP has now agreed to. PR's deficits would have been wiped out for
the entire period.
5.15    During the period FY84/85 to FY89/90, PR's revenue increased on
average about 81 p.a., due to increase in traffic and the marketing effort
done by PR to carry a better product mix.  The total working expenses which
comprise staff, fuel, material and other costs, as a percentage of total
revenues improved from about 1181 in FY84/85 to about 1101 in FY89/90. Staff
costs as a percentage of total working expenses increased from 441 in FY84/85
to 501 in FY89/90 due to increase in staff strength and higher pay scale.
Other expenses mainly pensions increased from 121 to 171 as more staff retired
and commutation benefits increased. Fuel costs on the other hand decreased
significantly from 251 to 16X mainly due to reducing the number of steam
locomotives, which use expensive furnace oil. Material costs decreased from
191 to 181 reflecting inadequate allocation of foreign exchange for essential
spare parts and material, thus deferring maintenance.
5.16    PR through the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF), reflects depreciation
at replacement costs. Its operating ratios, which take into account DRF,
improve from about 108 in FY84/85 to 104 in FY89/90, showing slightly better
control over costs. Interest on loans progressively increase over the period
FY84/85-FY89/90; however, it was about 501 higher in FY89 as some arrears were
settled in FY89. It is also the reason for the larger deficit in FY88/89
compared with FY87/88 and FY89/90.
F. Future Prospects
5.17    Revenue and Expenditure account forecasts of PR for the 7 yearis FY90/
91 to FY96/97 have been prepared to conform to PR's investment plan period
(Annex 2.4, page 5). The financial forecasts are summarized on page 36 and
shown in detail in Table 5.2. The basis for the forecast is shown in Annex
5.1.
5.18    Forecast Revenue and Expenditure account estimates for the period
FY90/91 to FY96/97 are projected using FY90/91 as the base year.  The forecast
includes small progressive improvements in operating efficiency, conservative
traffic increases, a 101 p.a. tariff adjustment and operating expenses are
based at 1939 levels (Annex 5.1). Based on GOP decision, PSO is reflected as
reimbursement income to PR. By FY96/97, total operating revenues are
projected to increase by about 941 over FY90/91 as a result of increases in
traffic, tariff and operating efficiency. Total working expenses are expected
to increase by about 501. Staff strength is expected to decrease by 2.51 p.a.
through attrition during the period FY90/91 to FY96/97 or considered surplus
reimbursable cost to PR (para. 5.06); despite this labor cost is expected to
increase by 501, because of expected wage awards.



Summary of Revenue and Exnenditure. 1990/91 - 1996/97
(Year Ending June 30)
-----------------------Forecast--------------------------------
Account Head             1922D91    1991/92    1992/93    1993t94    1922415    12L95/96    1996/97
(In Current Rs. Million)
Operating Revenues               6,329.3    7,116.5    8,048.6    9,104.0   10,298.8   11,651.6   13,183.4
Reimbursement on PSOW            1,281.8    1,245.9    1,325.1    1,405.9    1,480.2    1,543.8    1,595.7
Total Operatina Revenues         7,611.1    8,362.4    9,373.7   10,509.9   11,779.0   13,195.4   14,779.1
Total Working ExDenses           6,614.5    7,078.5    7,575.1    8,106.4    8,674.9    9,283.1    9,934.0
Appropriation to DRFW            1,028.8    1,165.8    1,306.5    1,445.2    1,602.2    1,762.7    1,922.5
Total Operating Expenses         7,643.2    8,244.3    8,881.6    9,551.6   10,277.1   11,045.8   11,856.5
Net ODeratLn" Rev/(Lossj         ( 32.1)      118.1       492.1      958.3    1,501.9    2,149.6    2,922.6
Interest on Loans                  534.5      564.8      658.1       783.8      897.8    1,005.6    1,115.7
Appropriation to IFW               120.0      135.9       154.0      174.5      197.7       224.0      253.7
Net Rev/(Loss)                   ( 686.7)   ( 582.6)   ( 320.0)       -         406.4       920.0    1,553.3        W
Dividend /dl                        -                                           406.4      920.0'   1,553.3-1 
Net SurM1us/(Deficit)            ( 686.7)   ( 582.6)   ( 320.0)       -                      -
Operating Ratio                    100.0       98.5        94.7       90.1       87.2       83.7        80.2
Passenger - Km Million          21,093.1   21,725.9   22,377.6   23,049.0   23,740.4   24,452.6   25,186.2
Freight - Ton - Km Million       9,117.0    9,299.3    9,578.3    9,865.6   10,161.6   10,466.4   10,780.4
Notes:  W/  Public Service Obligations (PSO).
b/   Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF).
S/   PR is obliged to pay 6.25X on Capital-at-Charge (GOP equity in PR), when it generates a
surplus.
4/ Dividend amount payable assuming PR would generate surplus funds would be: FY90/91-Rs. 813.3
m; FY91/92-Rs. 828.9 m; FY92/93-Rs. 842.4 m; FY93/94-Rs. 860.3 m; FY94/95-Rs. 875.2 m; FY95/96-
Rs. 880.4 m; and FY96/97-Rs. 885.6 m.
j/   Dividend amounts shown for FY95/96 and FY96/97 are in excess of the amounts due in that year.
The excess for FY95/96-Rs. 39.6 m and FY96/97-Rs. 667.6 m have been treated as dividend
payments for the years FY91/92-FY93/94 when PR was unable to generate surplus.
Figures may not add due to rounding.
Source: PR/Transport Sector Mission, March 1990.



- 37 -
5.19   Total operating expenses on the other hand are expected to register an
increase of about 55X mainly due to increased allocations to depreciation
(DRF). The operating ratio is expected to improve from 100 in FY90/91 to
about 80 in FY96/97. Interest on loans progressively increase from FY90/91-
FY96/97 as investments involving foreign exchange under the proposed Project
are mainly on PR's Replacement Capital Account, on which PR is responsible for
the debt service (details are given in Annex 5.1).
5.20   The forecast indicates that PR's financial position would
progressively improve from a deficit to a surplus situation enabling it to
reach a position where it could break even by FY93/94 and pay a dividend by
FY93/94 or GOP could provide these funds as additional contribution to PR's
DRF to replace its worn-out assets. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that GOP/PR and the Bank shall review during the month of March in each year
for the ensuina year to a8ree on the level of annual tariff adjustment
reauired so as to ensure: (a) that the rate of such adjustment shall be above
the inflation rate in Pakistan (Consumer Price Index of Pakistan): (b) that
the deficits of PR shall be nrogressively reduced: and (c) that PR shall be
able. starting no later than MY4/95. to either gay dividend or to finane_a
reasonable Rortion of its cagital develonmen exnenditure. Satisfactory
measures to increase revenues for FY90/91 would be condition for Board
Rresentatin. PR management would decide how the measures would apply to
different traffic streams, classes of fares and commodities to realize an
overall 10 impact on its revenues each year.
5.21     A sensitivity analysis indicated that if tariffs were indexed only
to the inflation rates PR would continue to incur deficits and therefore the
basis of proposed increase in para 5.20 for PR would be appropriate.
G.  Previous Aeements
5.22   Agreements made in Credit 684-PAK envisaged that PR's finances would
improve so that revenues would be sufficient to cover total operating expenses
and an increasing percentage of the dividend. A further requirement was that
the revenues of each service, passenger and freight would be at least
sufficient to cover its variable costs. PR was able to pay dividend up to
FY78/79, since then, reasons for its inability to meet the requirement have
been explained in paragraphs above. Under the proposed project, a specific
tariff requirement has been included (para. 5.20). The second requirement
becomes irrelevant now, because GOP under PSO will reimburse PR for ordinary
passenger service, which was not covering its variable costs.
H. Financing Plan
5.23    Table 5.3 shows the details of Source and Applications of Funds for
the seven year period FY90/91 to FY96/97 corresponding to PR's 7-year
investment plan (Annex 2.4, page 5) including the proposed Project period.



- 38 -
Financing Plan 1990/91 - 1996/97 I/
Rs. Milio            Million t 
Reguired Funds:
A.  For Investment Plan
Additional Investment                 2,100.0             97.7           8
Replacement                          11,135.0            517.9         44
13,235.0            615.6         52
B.  For Other Purposes
Debt Service                          8,190.9            381.0          32
Improvementsg/                       1,259.4              58.6          5
Available for DividendS               2,879.6            133.9          11
Required Funds - Total      25,564.9           1,189.1        100
Sources of Funds:
PR Internal Cash Generation 2/      11,759.1             546.9         46
Government Funds as Loans            11,705.8            544.5         46
Government Funds as Capital           2,100.0             97.7           8
25,564.9          1,189.1        100
*/   The financing plan excludes:  (i) locomotive factory (Item 11 in Annex
2.4, page 5), which is still under construction and will be separated
from PR's operations to a manufacturing unit (para. 5.07), and (ii)
locomotives (Item 12 in Annex 2.4, page 5), which this locomotive factory
is expected to manufacture.
k/   Based on US$1   Rupees 21.50.
g/  Minor Capital Works not included in the investment plan.
4/  GOP could either require PR to pay dividend or more likely it would allow
PR to retain funds for capital development expenditure.
2/  Includes PSO reimbursement from GOP.
Source: PR/Transport Sector Mission, March 1990.
5.24      About 46X of the funds required for implementation of PR's
investment plan which is directed towards rehabilitation and maintenance,
would be generated by PR internally, which includes reimbursement from GOP for
PSO. Since PR's financial viability is interlinked with its 7-year investment
plan (Annex 2.4, page 5), at negotiations. agreement was reached that PR would
only make changes to its investment program during FY90/91-FY96/97. in
consultation with the Bank. if the components are changed and the change
exceeds US$5 million i any fiscal year prior to the closing date of the
groiect.



- 39 -
5.25      The proceeds of the proposed loan component for PR of US$105.0
million equivalent (Rs. 2,257.5 million), would be on lent to PR in accordance
with GOP's practice for revenue earning government departments. This is
included in the "Government Funds as Loans" in the table. For funds on-lent
by GOP for Replacement Capital Account, it charges currently interest rate of
11. PR is responsible for the debt service and absorbs the foreign exchange
risk (Annex 5.1).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP and/or NHB and PR
on the following sector reform program items:
(a)   Action Plans for Transport Sector Reform Program (Annex 2.1);
NHB Institutional Strengthening and Maintenance (Annex 2.2);
and Railway restructuring, business development and operational
improvement (Annex 2.3) (para. 2.07) together with annual
implementation reviews with the Bank to take place by March 31
each year; and
(b)   The CIMP and a financing plan for the period 1990/91-1992/93,
and annual reviews with the Bank no later than March 31 each
year (Annex 2.4) (para. 2.08);
6.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOP and/or NHB and PR
on the following:
(a)   Periodic and routine maintenance programs would be selected
according to maintenance intervention system, in consultation
with the Bank (para. 2.17);
(b)   GOP would form by October 30, 1990 a senior level Transport
Review Committee under the chairmanship of the Planning
Commission to ensure effective implementation of the sector
reform program (para. 2.27);
(c)   Confirmation of first year MBRP program and agreement that the
program for subsequent years will be decided annually in
consultation with the Bank at least three months in advance of
the fiscal year in accordance with criteria of ranking
according to economic priority (benefit/cost ratio) to yield an
internal rate of return of at least 15S and that the program
will receive the required budgetary allocation (para. 3.07);
(d)   The first year RSP program and agreement was confirmed the
program for subsequent years will be decided annually in
consultation with the Bank, at least three months in advance of
the fiscal year, in accordance with NHB's maintenance
intervention system and that the program will receive the
required budgetary allocation (para. 3.09).



- 40 -
(e) That PR would use the wagons equipped with roller bearing under
the loan only in sets consisting of wagons with roller bearings
(para. 3.16);
(f)   That between Kundian and Attock, PR would (a) extend loop
capacities to accommodate 72 wagon trains; (b) upgrade track
for 22 ton axle load locomotives, and (c) bank loaded trains to
avoid load shedding (para. 3.18);
(g) PR will, at a later phase, implement the remaining parts of the
MIS not financed under the proposed loan (para. 3.19);
(h)   GOP will make foreign exchange funds available to PR so that
appropriate levels expenditures on revenue spares would be
maintained (para. 3.20);
(i)   As a condition for disbursement for civil works contracts
awarded by NHB after June 30, 1991, GOP funds shall have
provided in a satisfactory manner at the beginning of each
year's program (para. 3.36);
(j)   Maintain separate Special Accounts for the Highway and Railway
components independently, and to have all the accounts of the
project, including the Special Accounts, audited at the close
of each financial year by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank, and to furnish such audited statements to the Bank
within six months of the end of the financial year for the
Highway Account and within nine months for the Railway Account
(para. 3.39);
(k)   PR to make its audited financial accounts available to the Bank
no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 5.02);
(1)  PR will submit a separate budget to Parliament for approval
starting with fiscal year 1991/92, including submission of PR's
Corporate Plan as part of the budget package (para. 5.04);
(m)   PR will initially estimate and subsequently prepare accounts
separated into different traffic streams, PSO services and
manufacturing units beginning for FY91/92 (para. 5.05);
(n)   GOP will allow PR to reduce staff through attrition, failing
which it will be reimburse PR with t'c cost of carrying surplus
staff under PSO (para. 5.06);
(o)   At negotiations, agreement was reached that GOP/PR and the Bank
shall review during the month of March in each year for the
ensuing year to agree on the level of annual tariff adjustment
required so as to ensure: (a) that the rate of such adjustment
shall be above the inflation rate in Pakistan (Consumer Price
Index of Pakistan); (b) that the deficits of PR shall be



- 41 -
progressively reduced; and (c) that PR shall be able, starting
no later than FY94/95, to either pay dividend or to finance a
reasonable portion of its capital development expenditure; and
(p)   PR will only make changes in its investment program during
FY90/91-FY96/97 (page 6 of Annex 2.4) in consultation with the
Bank and if the change exceeds the equivalent of US$5 million
in any fiscal year prior to the closing date of the project
(para. 5.24).
6.03     During negotiations agreement was reached that conditions for Board
presentation will be that:
(a)   PR's Corporate Plan will be submitted to Parliament as part of
the budget package (para. 2.21);
(b)   GOP will reimburse PR for the financial burden of PSO
activities and that PSO would be shown as a revenue item in PR
accounts (para. 5.05); and
(c)   PR to inform the Bank of satisfactory measures to increase
revenues for FY90/91 (para. 5.20).
These conditions were subsequently met.
6.04     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
conditions for effectiveness:
(a)   GOP to issue a Gazette notification that Railway Board has
become a policy and review board and includes outside members,
and General Manager has executive powers (para. 2.19);
(b)   General Manager to issue orders establishing a Railway Business
Department and appointing the additional General Manager
Business (para. 2.20);
(c)   GOP would furnish evidence to the Bank that (a) the funds
needed to carry out the project in FY90/91 have been allocated
and (b) that ECNEC approval of the Highway and Railway PC-Is
has been given (para. 3.24);
(d)   Tender documents, approved by the Bank shall have been prepared
for (i) at least US$25 million for the locomotive spare parts,
unit exchange assemblies and traction motors combined; and (ii)
for the roller bearing components (para. 3.31).
6.05     The loan would be made to the Government of Pakistan.  Of the
proposed loan, US$77.5 million would be made available by GOP to NHB,
US$105 million would be made available to PR. US$1.5 million would be used by
GOP for the Sector Reform Program.
6.06     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$184 million.



- 42 -                   6=Lx 2. 1
Page 1 of 2
PAKSTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Action Plan for TransAort Sector Reform
A.    Trucking Industry Development
1.    GOP plans to hold a trucking industry development workshop among the
various parties involved in the industry, before June 30, 1991 to prepare a
detailed action plan covering areas such as truck and spare parts
availability; finance and insurance, warehousing and terminal facilities,
truck construction and safety standards, and spearhead the implementation of
the action plan. At negotiations, agreement was reached that GOP would
discuss by December 31, 1991 with the Bank its action plans to: (i) develop
the trucking industry; and (ii) to permit the introduction of efficient high
capacity vehicles into Pakistan's private sector truck fleet, and to begin
their implementation by June 30, 1992.
B.    Highways and Railways
3.    These areas are covered in Action Plans given in Annexes 2.2 and 2.3.
C.    Resource Mobilization from Road Users
4.    To generate resources for the government budget, GOP has committed to
pass through to domestic consumers the full increase in the international
price of crude by July 1990, and to follow this procedure in the future.
Accordingly, in March 1990, GOP raised the price of gasoline by 161 and diesel
by 81. At negotiations GOP agreed to continue its compliance with this policy.
5.    GOP agreed at negotiations that NHB would update its policy paper with
recommendations on the scope for further resource mobilization from road users
by December 31 each year and would discuss the paper with the Bank by March 30
and that NHB/MOC would discuss the paper with MOF by April 15 every year.
D.    Trade Loeistics
6.    GOP plans to undertake studies to (i) develop an overall policy and
program for improving the handling, storage and transport of bulk commodities;
(ii) determine the future role of the National Logistics Cell; and (iii)
determine the feasibility of bulk foodgrain and fertilizer facilities at Port
Qasim. Agreement was reached with GOP at negotiations that the studies would
be completed by September 30, 1991 and that GOP would discuss the studies
results with the Bank and mutually agree with the Bank on an action plan and
implementation schedule by December 31, 1991.



- 43 -                   Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
7.    The International Trade Facilitation Workshop was held in Karachi in
October. 1989 and proposed that a Pakistan Simplification of International
Trade Procedures Committee (PAKPRO) be established to be responsible for
simplification of international trade documentation, procedures and data
flows. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Committee would be
appointed by December 1990.
E.    Environmental Asgects
8.    GOP's Environment and Urban Affairs Division which is developing
environmental standards and programs for Pakistan has yet to deal with
transport of hazardous cargoes or pollution from automotive emissions and
considerable work needs to be done before a program can be implemented.
Accordingly agreement was reached at negotiations that by December 1991 the
Division would develop programs designed to improve the safety of transport of
hazardous cargoes and reduce automotive pollution, and that by June 1992 GOP
would mutually agree with the Bank on an action plan and implementation
schedule.
F.    Sector Planning
9.    To improve sector planning agreement was be reached at negotiations that
GOP's Management Services Division would undertake a study by December 31,
1991 on ways to strengthen the project planning and policy formulation
capability of the various agencies, divisions and units involved in the
transport sector, and that by June 31, 1992, GOP would mutually agree with the
Bank on an action plan and implementation schedule, and (b) studies would be
undertaken to assist preparation of the Eighth Plan (1993-1997) transport
sector strategy.
xa1



- 44 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Action Plan for NHB Institutional Strengtheing and
ffaintenance Proggram ImlementArlon
A.       Reoregnization of NHB
1.       The Government of Pakistan commits itself to the objective of
creating a stronger and more independent body for the planning, construction,
maintenance, operation and administration of its Federal Highway System. The
ultimate objective shall be a competent professional body which shall annually
agree a program of work and capital and recurrent budgets with GOP and then be
free to execute its program within an agreed legislative and procedural
framework.
2.       Subject to the changes described in Annex 2.6, the Government
accepts the report *Organization and Management of the National Highway Board"
prepared by FHWA, and the accompaning manuals on Policies and Procedures and
Project Management, both of which have been reviewed and revised by senior NHB
officials, as the bases for the reorganisation and for the operation of the
national highway.
3.       Technical Assistance and Training will be provided under the
proposed loan and possible additional assistance and training may be provided
by FHWA/USAID to assist INHB implement the new structure and to introduce the
new pollcies and procedures and Project Management Handbook into NHB's normal
operations.
4.       NHB for its part undertakes to make every effort to place the most
competent and best qualified persons available in key positions, in an open
and transparent manner.
5.       The following key steps have been agreed in the implementation
timetable:
Staffina                                         Target Dates
(a)   Principles of Reorganization              Agreed at
negotiations
(b)   Functional Structure                      Agreed at
negotiations
(c)   Cabinet (ECC) Approval of                  September 30, 1990
Reorganization Plan



- 45 -
Annex 2,2
Page 2 of 3
(d)   NHB to provide Reorganization             October 15, 1990
Implementation Schedule to Bank
(e)   Appointment of 5 key foreign               December 31, 1990
advisors
(f)   Appointment of key senior officers        March 31, 1991
(g) Review of implementation progress
with Bank                                  June 30, 1991
Subsequent annual reviews                 March 31 every year
Policy and Procedures
(h)   Introduction of policies and              December 31, 1990
procedures, including accounting
procedures appropriate to the
new organization
Legal Action
(i)   Draft Highway Authority bill to           March 31, 1991
Law Division
B.       Maintenance Program Imolementation
6.       To ensure timely, cost-effective, and environmentally-sound
implementation of MBRP and RSP, it will be agreed at negotiations that:
(a) Separate consolidated PCIs will be prepared for the MBRP and
RSP. Normal procedures for approval by the competent
authority will be observed for the items to be included in the
annual plan within the framework of the consolidated PCIs in
consultation with the Bank.
(b) NHB will annually review its contract maintenance (routine and
periodic) procedures and performance with the Bank to evaluate
the physical results and outputs achieved;
(e) NHB will prepare and introduce, with the assistance of
international consultants, appropriate maintenance policies,
standards, specifications, and work procedures to improve the
quality of maintenance work;
(d) NHB will review its maintenance intervention criteria and
procedures with the Bank by June 1991 to ensure that such
criteria lead to cost-effective maintenance practice and
extend the service life of maintenance interventions;



- 46 -
Annx 2.2
Page 3 of 3
(e)   NHB will introduce on a trial basis the use of cold mixes
(with asphalt emulsions) and epoxy additives for patching, and
slurry seals for periodic maintenance. NUB will also
lnvestigate the use of quick setting and curing mixtures for
patching on heavily-trafficked roads;
(f)   NHB will require provision of effective traffic control
(signs, flagmen, barriers, flashing beacons etc.) in all its
road maintenance operations;
(g)   MMB will lnclude a component in fBRP and RSP for guard rails,
barriers, lane markings, signals, signs (regulatory, warning,
and information), and channelization in all MBRP and RSP
contracts, using international/national standards and warrants
for the provision of these devices;
(h)   sealed or brick-paved shoulders (extending to the property
line) and drains (pipe or open channel) will be provided in
built-up areas, near railway crossings, at bridge approaches,
and in areas of heavy pedestrian flows, in all MBRP and RSP
contracts; and
(i)   a provision will be made in all MBRP and RSP contracts for:
repair of eroded or damaged side slopes, embankments, and road
cuts; properly designed longitudinal ditch sections and
outfalls (lined with masonry or concrete where necessary to
control erosion), grass seeding (with vetiver if possible) and
protection of newly-constructed slopes; measures to control
construction-related erosion; treatment of landslides;
landscaping and plantation of trees and shrubs in the
ROW/medians; roadside parking/standing bays for buses and
trucks in built-up areas; and rest areas in scenic locations.



- 47 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 5
TRANS!pRT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Action Plan for Railway Restructuring.
Business Development and Operational Improvements
A,t1_ytxv                                                 Schedule
I. RestructurLng
A. Institutional
1.    The Railway Board at Islamabad will           July 1, 1990
become a Policy and Review Board and          (Effectiveness Condition)
executive powers will be vested in the
General Manager (Chief Executive) at
the Railway Headquarters in Lahore.
2.    PR's manufacturing units will be              July 1, 1991
grouped into several corporations to
enable them gradually to diversify
their operations, become self-financing
and ultimately to be privatized.
B. Financial
3.    The Railway Budget would be presented         July 1, 1990 for publication of
separately from GOP budget beginning in      corporate plan.
1991/92 together with an annually             (Board Condition)
updated Corporate Plan.                       July 1, 1991 for separate budget.
4.    GOP to take direct financial                  July 1, 1990
responsibility for Public Service             (Board Condition)
Obligations (i.e. losses shown as
revenue item in budget).
5.    The number of surplus staff to be             March 31, 1991
reduced through attrition. The
Management Services Division has been
assigned the task of estimating the
extent of surplus staff and identifying
an attrition program that would be
mutually discussed with the Bank and
GOP. In the event that PR is not
allowed to follow the attrition
program, the costs of the staff in



- 48 -
Anne 2.3-
Page 2 of 5
excess of that resulting from the
attrition program would be included in
the PSO.
6.    Financial accounts of each of the             July 1, 1991
Railway's different traffic streams,
manufacturing units and PSO to be
separated.
7.    PR to (i) initiate a cost reduction           Work Plan to be prepared and
program to reduce the deficits of those       Action Program initiated by March
uneconomic services that GOP wishes to        31, 1991
continue for social reasons, and (ii)
close other uneconomic services. A
work program would be prepared for a
comprehensive closure and cost
reduction program would be prepared and
an action program initiated.
C.  snaw=
S.    Streamling the number of managers             July 1, 1990
reporting to the General Manager.
9.    Personnel policies to be changed to           July 1, 1990 for
those suitable for a commercially             trarsfers and posting.
oriented business.  Specifically this         July 1, 1991 for
would include transferring Promotion          promotions
authority from GOP Establishment
Division to the Railway Board on
recommendation of the Chief Executive
for grades of up to deputy department
managers, and Chief Executive to have
full authority for transfers and
postings.
II. Development of Business Led Organization
A.    Buneas Depsrtment
1.    Business Department established,              July 1, 1990
Appointment of Additional General             (Effectiveness Condition)
Manager Business
2.    TOR for Business Advisors to be agreed        July 31, 1990
with Bank
3.    Appointment of Managers for (i)               By October 31, 1990
Corporate Planning (ii) Commercial



- 49 -
Au=S 2. 3
Page 3 of 5
Passenger; (iii) Local Passenger; (iv)
Freight; (v) Containers; (vi)
Terminals; and (vii) Support Divisions
4.    Appointment of Advisors                       October 31, 1990
B.    Ocerations !mnrovement Group
1.   TOR for Operations Advisor to be agreed        July 31, 1990
with Bank
2.   Appointment of Group                           July 1, 1990
3.    Appointment of Advisor                        September 1, 1990
C.   leadgMters =     =gzatjM
1.    TOR for Advisors to be agreed with Bank       July 31, 1990
2.    Appointment of Nanagement Change              By October 31, 1990
Advisors
3.    Retreats and Seminars                         Begin by November 30, 1990
D.    Train&=
1.    TOR for Advisors to be agreed with Bank       July 31, 1990
2.    Appointment of Advisor                        October 31, 1990
3.    New Courses designed and agreed               April 30, 1991
4.    Business orientation section introduced       June 30, 1991
into Officer Induction Course
5.    Senior Management Course Introduced           June 30, 1991
E.    OffLcZ Technolo
1.    Corporate Planning Division to be             July 1, 1990
equipped with PCs of at least 386
capability
2.   Operations Improvement Group to be             August 1, 1990
equipped with PCs of at least 386
capability



- so -
Annex 2,3
Page 4 of 5
3.    Four more headquarters departments to         June 30, 1991
be equipped
4.    Remaining six machines deployed               June 30, 1992
F.    DeloRmt_ of Accounting
1.    TOR for Accounting study will be agreed       July 31, 1990
with Bank
2.    Appointment of Consultants                    October 31, 1990
3.    Completion of the study                       July 31, 1991
4.    Preparation of commercial accounts on a       December 31, 1991
pro-forma basis
5.    Publish Railway Accounts on the basis         June 31, 1992
of commercial accounting principles
III. oeratiional imoroement Tarmets
A.    Fre8          en
1.    3000 hp locomotives to be deployed to         Initiate by October 15, 1990
haul all freight trains on Karachi-           and progressively introduce
Lahore/Kundian Sectors.
2.    90 uneconomical and poorly patronized         Between October 1, 1990
passenger trains to be cancelled to           and October 1, 1991
release 1,500 hp locomotives in
multiple units to work freight trains.
3.    PR in conjunction with oil companies to       February 15, 1991
provide block rake loading and
unloading facilities at terminals to
reduce terminal operations to 3 hrs.
4.    All wheat unloading terminals sidings         June 30, 1991
will be extended to permit block rake
unloading.
5.    Cement, wheat, fertilizers and                June 30, 1992
containers to be transported in closed
circuit train patterns with dedicated
wagons and locomotives.



- 51 -
AnnexL2.3_
Page 5 of 5
6.    To permit all freight trains with 72          June 30, 1992
wagons size to move undisturbed as
block trains from Southern/Western
zones to Peshawar and Rawalpindi areas,
loop capacities on Kundian-Attock City,
- Peshawar route to be suitably
increased.
7.    5,000 overaged and uneconomical four-         March 15, 1991
wheeler wagons will be condemned and
sold as scrap.
8.    Redundant marshalling yards including         Beginning from
Chaklala yard will be closed.                 December 31, 1990
B.    Passenaer Movement
1.    To neutralize the effect of reduced           Progressively between
booked speed on the journey time of           October 1, 1990 and
long distance and inter-city passenger        October 1, 1991
trains hauled by 2,000 hp locomotives,
station halt time, speed restrictions
en route and the slack time for making
up train delays will be suitably
curtailed.
2.    PR will accelerate long distance and          Progressively between
inter-city trains by providing suitable      October 1, 1991 and
local trains to serve district                October 1, 1994
headquarters which are also 'work
centers".
3.    By giving the carriage rakes of long          Progressively between
distance/inter-city trains a technical        October 1, 1990 and
pit examination only after a round            April 1, 1992
trip, rake links will be tightened to
produce additional coaches to augment
profitable passenger trains which are
now running underload.



- 52 -
Annox -2.4
Page 1 of 6
TRANSPORT SETO PROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL  PR
NATIONAL HIGORAY CORE INomTmENT AND MAINTENANCE MOOZRA  (CIMP)
(Rs. MillOn)
90/91    91/92    92/93
EXPENDITURES
A. ADP
1. Fourth Highway Project             600      800    1,000
2.  Indus Highway                     500      600      700
3. Maintenance Backlog
Reduction Program (MBRP)        373      536      580
4. Resurfacing and Strengthening      173      279      401
B. RECURRENT
1. Routine Maintenance                30Q      323      345
TOTAL EXPENDITURES      1,946    2,538    3,026
FINANCING
WORID BAN
Fourth Highway Project                  318      424      530
Transport Sector Loan
mmRP                                  261      375      406
RSP                                   150      173      100
OECF (Indus Highway)                      350      420      490
Sub-total                           1,079    1,392    1,526
GOP Contribution                    867      1,146     1,526
Source: Staff Estimates



- 53 -
Annex 24
Page 2 of 6
TBUX8PORT 8FCT0RL PROJRCT
MUAP APPRAI8^ " pt
PhXISTAN RAILWAY CORE INVEIEN? AID NAIUTRRANCE PROGRAM  (CIMP)
(Rs. Killion)
90/91    91/92    92/93
EXPENDITURS
A. ADP
1. Capital Maintenance
Locomotive Spares               550    1,130        90
Track Rehabilitation            300       300      300
2. Operational Improvements
Roller Bearings                 250       370      150
Signal and Communication         45        60       75
NiS                              10       .30      110
3. Rehabilitation & Modernization        -        -      800
(includes high capacity wagons,
modern passenger coaches, loco
refurbisbment/new locos and
electrification extenstion)
B.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                 50       60       50
C.  RECURRENT (loco spares)                  300    . 400    . 500
TOTAL EXPENDITURES      1,505    2.350    2,075
FINANCING
WORLD BANK (Transport Sector Project)      627    1,252      380
Foreign Unidentified                                         600
GOP Contribution                           878    1,098    1,095
Note: GOP contribution includes a large element for duties and taxes.
This includes the following amounts associated with project items:
1990/91  1991a2 1922u93
357         663      181



JRFlPOR SECTOR PROJECt
9TAFF APPRAXSL REPOR
HMTIOUL Sig""S
I 'Pstmn u, W  i Mmint-m Prism
(fs. ditL1n)
A. CP      A
Projected Expenditure       T 0  T A  L
Hae of Project                    Estifated  Expenditure  Expenditure  Allocation
Cost     to 06/1988    1988/B.        1989/1990   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93  7th Five Year Plan
MaJor sches
oual c/way R'pindi-Chablat         N-S        241.7         228.0          4.8          2.2       6.9       0.0       0.0            13.9             1
Construction of Talibmtla Bridge              301.8         136.5         101.4        75.5      16.6       0.0       0.0           193.5            en
Rehab. Guarauuala-Lalanusa         N-5         88.8          43.4          17.0        20.0       8.4       0.0       0.0            45.4
Rehab. Sahiwal-Chfchauatni         N-S         70.1          25.1         28.0         16.0       1.1       0.0       0.0            45.1
Repair Karachi-Hyderabad           N-5        261.8         242.5          10.1         0.0       0.0       9.2       0.0            19.3
Hyderabad bypass/Kotri bridge      N-S        433.5         253.8         86.4         86.4      27.0      25.9       0.0           225.7
Moro bypass                        N-5         48.8          21.8          12.0         1.5      13.5       0.0       0.0            27.0
Oual c/way Nowshers-Peshawar       N-5        202.6         168.8           2.8         9.9       0.0       0.0       0.0             12.7
0.t. Khan/Darya Khan Bridbe        N-50       554.3         485.3           1.9         2.0       0.0       0.0       0.0             3.9
Const./fip 0.1. Khan-Dhawesar      N-50        72.3          27.0           0.0        10.0      15.3      20.0       0.0            45.3
Const. Ammrgh o/h Bridge           H-5         30.2          22.5           1.8         3.7       2.2       0.0       0.0             7.7
5 brides, Peshawar-Charsada                    66.1          42.6          11.0         7.0       5.5       0.0       0.0            23.5
Comnt. of Kurram bridge            N-5S        29.3          16.7          12.6         2.0       0.0       0.0       0.0            14.6
Const. of Oaabilla bridge          *-55        39.9          22.5         16.4          1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0            17.4
Const./lp Hassan Ab.-A abotebad    N-35      116.5           0.0           1.0        30.0      30.0      30.0      25.5           116.5
Const./ilp D.I. Khan-Kuchlak       3-50       270.0         140.9         50.0         30.0      35.0      14.1       0.0           129.1
Improvement Nub Bela-Saryab        N-25       430.0          0.7          20.0         15.0      20.0       0.0      0.0             SS.0
Repair Flood Oanages               N-6S        98.7          76.2          15.0         1.0       6.S       0.0       0.0            22.S
Third Nighway Project                       1,251.3       1,033.9         37.0         10.0      50.0       0.0       0.0            97.0
fourth Nighway ProJect             N-S      4,800.0         621.9        359.0        500.0    600.0    800.0  1,000.0            3.259.0
Indus Nighway, Phase I             N-SS     1,294.7          0.0          23.5        100.0    500.0    600.0    700.0            1,923.5
Other                                         7G5.5          76.2         61.8         76.3       0.0       0.0       0.0           138.1
Sut-total                        11,407.9       3,686.3         873.5       999.5  1,338.0  1,499.2  1,2.5              6,435.7              
0.



8TAfF APMISAL REIt
NATIUNAL EIUIW
Iiwesn~t u6 lain to uic Prqo
(is. mIllIt)
A. CAPITAL BUDGET
Projected Expenditure    T 0 T A L
Nle of Project                Estfnuted  Expenditure  Expenditure  Allocation
Costs   to 06/1968    19868/89    1989/1990  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  7th Five Year Plan
NInor Schmes
Punjab                                  87.8        63.9        32.3        18.0    36.2      0.0      0.0          86.S
Sind                                    71.2        11.7        29.1        15.7    2S.6    14.9       0.0          85.3
NWP                                     36.7         2.9        10.8        2.5      8.0      0.0      0.0          21.3           VI
Baluchistan                            103.2        60.9        10.5        18.9    14.1      0.0      0.0          43.5           u
NHo                                     40.8        15.5        16.7        10.4    22.5      2.8      0.0          S2.4
Subtotal                        339.7       154.9        99.4       6S.5   106.4    17.7        0.0         289.0
Other
FW roads                                 90.1        45.2         7.6       12.7      2.2    10.0    10.0            42.5
TOTAL OW-G01NG                      11,837.7     4,027.6       980.S    1,077.7  1,446.6  1,526.9  1,73s.5        6,767.2
NE PWMEtTS
Major Scheme
ftint. Baklog Reduction Program         1,790.0         0.0         0.0       0.0    372.6   S35.9   579.6           1,488.1
Resurfacing & strengthening Prog.       2,000.0         0.0         0.0       0.0    173.0   278.7   400.6            852.2
Sub-total                     3,790.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    545.6   814.6   980.2          2,340.3
Mfnor Schems
Punjab                                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0
Bind                                     0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0
NWFP                                     0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0           0.0
Saluchistan                             23.5         0.0         0.0        0.0     10.0    13.S       0.0          23.5
I     .tB                               11.5         0.0         0.0        0.0      1.0      5.0      S.S           11.S
STP Etot RE                    35.0           0.0         0.0        0.0   2,.0  28.0  2 .7  3..0 912
tOTAL CAPTAL EXPEIIITURES               1S ,662.7    4,027.6       980.S    t ,077.7  2,003.2  2,360.0  2,72t1.2     9,1t42.S  



lllttm SECTOR PRtM
KA"IUt.L Mumu
(ft. of Men)
A. CAPITL  U
ProJ eted Expndttuwe        t 0 * A L
Name of Project                   Estimted   Eupeeiture  Expediture  Allocation
Costs    to  06/1908    198          198/1990  1990/91  1991/92   199V2f   7th Ffve Year Pln
Arrand or Agreed n Prineiple
lortd anl- 4th NiH1my ProJect                                           10.3         265.0    318.0    424.0    530.0            1727?.27
Wwtd Dan - NWl                                                            0.0          0.0    260.8    375.1    405.7            1,041.67
- Resurf. A Strength.                                          0.0          0.0    1S0.6    173.4       99.7            4Z.72
OECF      - InM , Pha  I                                                  0.0          0.0    350.0    420.0    490.0            1,260.00
Su*-totel                                                      190.3       265.0  1,09.5  1,392.s  1,525.4             4,4S2.66
G0OP C4TIBTION PUl
CAPITA_, EXPENDITU                                                    790.2        812.7    923.7    967.S  1,195.8           4,689.88
8. Cl"ET BuDqI
Expemfdture
Nalntermnne                                                              200.7        255.0    300.0    322.S    346.7            1,424.89
Adeinfstratfon                                                             5.2          5.0       5.7      6.1       6.6            28.60
205.9       260.0    305.7    328.6    353.3            1,453.49
GOP CONTRISUTION FOR
CAPITAL AND CURRENT EXPENDITURES                                        996.1      1,072.7  1,299.4  1,296.1   1,549.1           6,143.37
Notes For minor schem_, cost estimates relates to schemes still ongoing as of June 30, 1990                                                         o o
Abereas expenditures prior to 1990/91 Include schemes coq2leted by Jure 1990.                                                                 " ?
I    I            I            I             I               _   _-   _   _     _   _     _   _    _             0



- 57 -
Armex 2.4
Page 6 of 6
IL OM=  AUD nm                 1 9    mW   199
as. midltim
Sam      90/1    91/92   92°f    93/94   9U9S   9196   96/97   TOTAL   X
£9190                                                                      F.E.
A. OP EXPEIDITURES
1. Nigh Capacity  ao         -       -         -     20      6        600     600      555    2,625  35
2. Rolter Sewrinps for
10,000  agons           -       250     370     150        -       -        -       -       70  60
3. Sifgl & Cmmic.           61       45       60      75      60        -       -        -      240  70
4. NIS                               10       30     110      60       60      30       30      330  80
5. Electrification of
Khanat-Samatte           -         -              60      270     230        -              560  35
6. Passenger Coaches       339      150      150     150     300      340     390      340    1.820  65
7. Refurbishment of
locomotives              8        -      500     5SO      SSO     550     550      100    2,800  60
S. Track Rehabilitation    40f      300      300     300     300      300     300      320    2,120  30
9. Locomotive Spares
incl.tract. motors     181       550   1,130      90            -           -              1,770  60
10. Institutional oevt.               30      4S       3S                -       -               110  70
11. Locomotive Factory      232      652     656      460                        -        -    1.768  60
12. Locomotives                        -        -       -     300      SOO     600   1.000    2,400  70
13. Nlscetlandeus           6                        __A _._         -       -        - *5_90  75
TOTAL                1,293    2.012   3.266   2.275   2.45S   2.580   2,470   2,345   17,403
amass  -   a.m.a    m               ama a            mma m
TOTAL 7th Plan                                  8,846
Subtotal without 11 & 12          1,360   2,610   1,813   2,155   2,080   1,870   1,345   13,235
B. RECNT- E-      I
1 Locomotives Spares        3         3       4CO      SO      60     __        70       750    3
TOTAL                1,662    2,312   3,666   2,775   3,055   3,230   3,170   3,095   21,303
-          -       -       -       -       --     _ 0  _=
Note: Prices as of Jonury 1. 1990
The subtotal without the tooo factory nd its output Is used in the
financial analysis since the factory will be separated from the railtwys.
Source: Staff Estimtes.



- 58 -
Anmnx 2,$5
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Truck Assembly Policies
I. Introductio,n
1.       Pakistan's trucking industry uses general purpose equipment which is
smaller and more lightly built than appropriate for long distance intercity
trucking operations in Pakistan. Heavier-duty high-powered vehicles are
needed for Pakistan's intercity truck industry. The only exceptions are NLC
which has been exempt from industrial policies and has been able to directly
import heavy-duty high-powered vehicles, and Afgan refugees who have brought
in their trucks which are high-powered heavy-duty vehicles and operate them in
competition with private Pakistani truckers.
2.       Private Pakistani truckers' choice of vehicles has been severely
constrained by Pakistan's industrial policies. To encourage local production,
industrial policies had, until 1980, restricted the trucking industry to a
model designed in the 1940s. Three more models have been approved for
assembly since 1980 but all are too small and lightly built for Pakistan's
long distance trucking needs. The assembly firms have prepared programs to
manufacture 70-802 of components locally, but little progress has been made in
achieving such targets. Given the limited demand for trucks in Pakistan, a
more realistic objective would be to make only those parts that can be more
cheaply manufactured locally, coupled with an agreement to supply the foreign
manufacturer with certain components to be used in worldwide sales.
3.       This annex outlines briefly the current policies of the GOP towards
local content (also known as deletion; requirements and product
standardization within the engineering industries, and in particular transport
equipment, examines their strengths and weaknesses and makes recommendations
for improvement and modification.
II. Local Content and Standardization Policies in Pakistan
4.       Pakistan's engineering industries are generally regarded as having
considerable potential for import substitution and export, and GOP's
development plans since Independence have stressed promoting development of
the industry, as both a source of income and employment and as a means of
improving the general level of technology and technological mastery in
Pakistan. However, although the share of industrial value-added originating
in engineering has doubled in the past 30 years, the achievements have been
less impressive in terms of quality, competitiveness, exports and contribution



- 59 -
Page 2 of 6
to technological upgrading. The engineering industries, which currently meet
about half of national demand for engineering products, are characterized by a
bi-modal structure, with production dominated by manufacture of simple and low
quality/precision shapes and components on the one hand and assembly of more
complex final goods largely from imported components on the other.
5.      Over the past decade, the government has attempted to promote the
development of engineering industries that are not merely confined to import-
intensive assembly operations and that lead to greater technological self-
reliance and sub-contracting. The major instrument used to achieve this
objective has been local content or deletion policy. Under this policy,
establishment of engineering enterprises in specific fields, particularly
transport equipment and electrical and electronic equipment, is approved
through the sanctioning process on the understanding that imported components
will gradually be replaced by local manufacture of parts and components,
either in-house or through sub-contractors. The policy assumes that foreign
technology will not be transferred to domestic assemblers and component
producers without direct intervention of government.
6.      The deletion policy operates through modification of the tariff
regime applicable to components and final products, and has both incentives
and penalties. The incentive is access to imported parts at concessional
rates below the tariffs usually charged on components, and the penalty is
levying of penal rates of duty if the program for local manufacture is not
implemented on schedule. (Since the components to be made locally are deleted
from the list of components enjoying concessional duties, the indigenization
or local content program is known in Pakistan as a "deletion' program.) The
deletion program is, therefore, a form of infant industry protection extended
through the tariff system (additional to the effective protection extended by
the basic tariff code, which in principle has a "cascaded' structure), with an
automatic process of gradual removal of concessional tariffs as deletion
proceeds. The policy also has a strong element of non-tariff barrier (NTB)
insofar as the enterprise loses much of its ability to determine in each
production period whether to import or procure locally, once the component has
been produced locally; in other words, the policy ties the enterprise into a
particular pattern of component procurement and essentially makes the deleted
component a non-traded item.
7.      The deletion policy was first instituted some ten years ago, but,
because of difficulties in the scheme's operation and because of the scheme's
limited results, a review of the policy was ordered by the Economic
Coordination Committee of the Cabinet (ECC) in 1985 to suggest modifications
to ensure more effective implementation of deletion programs. Although the
deletion programs may have increased the degree of local content beyond that
which would have occurred if firms had been operating on purely commercial
grounds, the policy has suffered from a number of weaknesses. Some of these
weaknesses were addressed through a partial reform of the system announced in
July 1987.



- 60 -
Anne 2. 5
Page 3 of 6
8.       First, Ministry of Industry (MOI) was made exclusively responsible
for drawing up and monitoring individual deletion programs. Before 1987, OI,
along with its Investment Promotion Bureau (IPB), had shared responsibility
for local content programs with the Ministry of Commerce (HOC), the Central
Board of Revenue (CBR) and the Special Technical Cell (STC) of tha Ministry of
Production (MOP). This had led to a number of problems, notably deriving from
the fact that HOI and CBR had their own separate deletion schemes. MOI drew
up firm-specific deletion programs for all engineering projects submitted for
sanctioning; these were supposed to govern access to imports at concessional
rates. CBR had its own deletion program, under which all engineering firms
were required to meet a target of 751 deletion within five years in order to
qualify for concessional duties.1 The role of the HOC was limited to issuing
licenses to import on the basis of the sanctioned capacity of the enterprise.
The STC was established to monitor the pace of indigenization and to promote
the growth of vendor industries, but was unable to carry out its functions
because of lack of information and staff.
9.       OI established a Deletion Cell in January 1988 to draw up programs,
and it subsequently established an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate
the policies of the various agencies involved in implementation. CBR now has
responsibility for implementing the programs through its tariff concessions,
and has therefore dropped its own diletion program. The role of the STC has
been redefined to providing support to public sector enterprises with deletion
programs.
10.      Second, the design of deletion programs was changed in 1987. The
deletion programs introduced under the old system were unrealistically
ambitious, often exceeding 801 within five years, and usually based on little
analysis of the real potential for economically and financially viable local
production of components. In addition, although the earlier programs
indicated the value of parts to be deleted as an aggregate percentage of the
final product cost, they usually did not indicate the value of individual
components, making the monitoring progress difficult. Because of MOI's desire
to maintain some control over implementation of the deletion program, MOI used
to sanction capacity at low levels in order to link expansion of the
enterprise to implementation of deletion. Although the programs were often
unrealistic (and sometimes even undesirable in terms of their impact on
costs), enterprises were generally willing to accept formal obligations to
delete because OI's ability to monitor progress was limited by staff
shortages, because 4I0's programs could be undercut since CBR was providing
concessions under its own program, which CMR did not have staff to monitor
either, and because the enterprise could usually avoid penalties by claiming
that failure to delete was the fault of its potential vendors or foreign
technology partners.
1' CQR's deletion programs were governed by a series of SROs, 600/(I)/83,
601/(I)/83, 602/(I)/83, 603/(I)/83, 417/(I)/84, 495/(I)/84, 497/(I)/84 and
499/(I)/84, which specified a wide range of concessional rates for different
components and parts.



- 61 -
pAMx 2_5
Page 4 of 6
11.      The revised policy introduced in 1987 attempted to address some of
these deficiencies. First, future deletion programs were to be drawn up on an
industry basis rather than for each enterprise, and that new firms entering
production would be expected to commence at the level of deletion already
attained by existing firms.v To permit monitoring of the annual achievements
of existing firms, the deletion programs were to be specified not just in
aggregate terms but also item-by-item. Second, an attempt was made to give
the policy teeth by imposing penalties for non-compliance. A component
scheduled to be deleted but in fact not deleted on time, would now be subject
to penal tariff duty of 1001 above the industrial rate or the full commercial
rate, whichever was higher. Furthermore, the policy had provisions for
levying penal duties on not only the non-deleted part but also the remainder
of the package of components to be deleted. Third, the policy reform
indicated that tariff exemptions would also be available to firms producing
components within deletion programs. And finally, the capacity constraints on
firms working within deletion programs were removed.
12.      Although these changes reduced some of the rigidities of the deletion
policy, serious weaknesses remain. The deletion programs have generally had
limited success, with the notable exception of Millat Tractors, where strong
management, effective supervision from OI, good technology transfer
arrangements embodied in the original contract, and adaptive local
manufacturing technology all contributed to effective deletion without cost
penalties. In the case of the automobile industry, however, these factors
have been largely absentW and significantly lower levels of deletion than
planned have been achieved.
13.      The major weaknesses are as follows: first, deletion programs provide
substantial incentives for firms agreeing to a deletion program, along with
barriers to entry for other producers. The penalties for non-compliance are
very severe on paper, but generally cannot be applied because full application
V Previously, new firms had been able to enjoy full concessions on components
and had in some cases been able to undercut existing firms whose costs had
been elevated by the fact that they were already in a deletion program. At
least part of the reason for the demise of Bedford trucks in Pakistan had been
the fact that Izusu were enjoying concessions on all imports while Bedford had
deleted a large percentage of their parts.
X Under the deletion program, the industries are allowed to import components
which have yet to be deleted at substantially lower rates of duty than the
duties charged on the completely built unit. This provides a substantial
degree of effective protection. However, in the case of automobiles, the
import price of the components (in CKD form) is higher than the import price
of the car (in CBU form). The assembly operation begins with negative value-
added at world prices, i.e. it costs Pakistan more to assemble than to import
the final good without even taking into account the local resources required
for assembly, and thus the country loses rather than saves foreign exchange.



- 62 -
Annex 2. 5
Page 5 of 6
would in many cases bankrupt the enterprise. Secon, in spite of the declared
intent of the policy to take into account costs, deletion percentages are set
without much consideration of the impact on current or future costs of
production. There is little justification for compelling a firm to procure
parts at higher cost without the promise of some clear advantages in the
future. Third, the policy does not give any credit to firms who increase or
introduce exports of locally-produced components; in some situations, it may
be preferable to earn foreign exchange by exporting components rather than to
try to save foreign exchange by producing more components locally. Fourth,
the policy gives no incentive for efforts to reduce costs of production of
components once deleted, even when there would be greater economic return to
this activity than further deletion.d Fifth, attempts to induce firms to
delete are still frequently hampered by the original cooperation or technology
agreements between the Pakistan firm and the foreign partner. One such
example is Pak-Suzuki; the local firm has agreed to the deletion program, but
the agreement between Pak-Suzuki and Suzuki contains no requirements for
Suzuki to cooperate in this area with Pak-Suzuki. As a result, Pak-Suzuki has
received little cooperation from Suzuki in securing designs and drawings from
Suzuki's own sub-contractors. Sixth, there appears to be little justification
in having the decision of whether to produce components in-house or through
sub-contractors made by government officials, particularly because
circumstances may change over time.V And seventh, the manpower and resources
available within the Deletion Cell of MOI are inadequate for the workload that
development and monitoring of a deletion program generate.
III. Recommendations for Review of Deletion Program
14.      The Government has indicated some interest in reviewing the deletion
program in order to improve its operation and to help achieve the broader
objectives of developing a competitive and efficient engineering industry.
Such a review should, at the very least, examine (i) the contractual
arrangements between the foreign principals and the local firm on the one hand
and between the local firm and government on the other that are required to
provide an effective framework for deletion; (ii) the tradeoffs between
providing incentives for the deleting firm and allowing new entrants and
effective competition from local or foreign firms; (iii) the possibilities of
making the programs more flexible and responsive to changing cost structures;
V This is a very substantial point, given that the deletion policy really is
a form of infant industry protection. The principal of such protection is
that the need for the protection should disappear after an initial period and
not be permanent.
a The fact of changing circumstances is one general reason why the management
of the deletion program has to be flexible and not inhibit the firm from
pursuing commercially-viable options.



- 63 -
Annex 2.L5
Page 6 of 6
(iv) the mechanisms for encouraging export as wvll as import substitution of
components; and (v) the ways of encouraging quality and cost reduction as well
as simple deletion.
15.      Pakistan is not alone in having introduced deletion programs in order
to accelerate technology transfer and indigenous adoption, and it is not alone
in having secured fewer results than hoped for. Efforts such as the current
deletion policy are unlikely to bear fruit if they do not work in the
direction of commercial incentives and if they are implemented in an
environment where the local firms are insulated from global market
developments, and are inhibited from responding to competition or have little
to offer the foreign partner. Efforts to accelerate the inflow of foreign
technology or to improve the ability of firms to secure it at a reasonable
price work best in an environment where firms are under pressure to respond to
competitive pressures from both domestic and international competition.
Deletion policies will not overcome the effects of poor macro and industrial
policy. In some countries, developing as well as developed, the recognition
that the pace of technological change is accelerating globally is inducing
governments to develop comprehensive programs for technology transfer and
development to enable rapid absorption of new technology and to allow quicker
responses to the opportunities and threats that shange poses. In such a
perspective, local content programs become just one, and maybe a minor, way of
promoting technological change.
16.      In the short term, GOP should consider introducing one important
modification to the deletion program, so as to provide an incentive for
assemblers and component manufacturers involved in deletion programs to
increase exports. One serious deficiency in many of the industries involved
in the deletion programs is that the local market is too small to support
enterprises of economic scale. This is particularly true in the transport
equipment industry; for example, the total capacity for truck assembly in
Pakistan is about 11,000 units per annum, divided between three firms, with
the largest, National Motors, supplying capacity of 6,000 units. The current
market in Pakistan of about 4,000 units per annum is insufficient to support
even one assembler of economic size. The situation is even graver in the case
of components where minimum scale is much higher. The governwent has
recognized this problem, and has attempted to create conditions for more
economic production by introducing a standardization policy, whereby a limited
number of firms are given the right to sell in Pakistan. (The right to sell
is generally linked to the willingness to establish production facilities
within the deletion program framework.) Currently, there are four truck
producers sanctioned for production in Pakistan. However, this policy is
geared to increasing unit size only within the constraints of the local
market. It is recommended that the government modify as soon as possible the
current deletion program in order to provide an incentive for component (and
assembly) producers to export; this could be done by allowing those firms
which export to implement a lower deletion program, on the grounds that
earning foreign exchange by exporting is as economically valuable to Pakistan
as saving foreign exchange by substituting for imports.
A



- 64 -
Awn 2.6
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
TRAISPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Reorganization of the National Highway Board
1.       In November 1989, USAID financed two FHWA Engineers to make a study
of the future role of NHB and to determine an appropriate structure and
staffing pattern for the organization that would enable it to play its defined
role. The report "Organization and Management of the National Highway Board",
Tollion and Mansur, FHWA, January 1990, is in the project file. At the same
time, the Fourth Highway project management consultants to NHB prepared a
detailed Policies and Procedures Manual and a Project Management Handbook
(which included detailed financial procedures), which are also in the project
file. These two documents form the basis of the reorganization component
which will be supported by technical assistance and training to implement the
new structure and adopt the new procedures.
2.       The reorganization would be based on three basic principles:
(a) Functional Administration. The organizational structure of
INHB would be based on well-recognized highway technical
functions -- planning, design, construction, and maintenance -
- as well as sound public administration practices,
particularly with respect to accountability and efficiency in
the use of public funds.
(b)   Decen llzatign.  Creation of regional offices of NHB with
substantial delegation of financial and administrative powers
and strengthening of financial and performance audit functions
at all levels within NHB.
(c)   Aut     .  Creation of an "autonomous" national highway
organization with a corporate structure and administrative
freedom to plan and execute its highway programs within agreed
annual budgets.
3.       NHB has adopted the recommendations of the FHWA study, with the
following changes, following discussions with NHB and Government's Management
Services Division:
(a)   The Chief Executive of organization should have an appropriate
title depending on the institutional form adopted, either an
authority or a board.



- 65 -
Anmex 2. 6
Page 2 of 2
(b)  The organizational structure should have at least four line
functions as follows (see Chart 1):
- Preconstruction (Planning and Design).
- Construction.
- Maintenance.
- Finance.
In addition there will be at least four staff functions:
- Legal counsel
- Administration, training & personnel management
- Internal audit
- Technical & performance audits and inspections
These positions will report directly to the Chief Executive.
(c) The four Regional Offices, will be in charge of all development
works, maintenance works and traffic operations at the Regional
Level (see Chart 2). The regional offices will in addition
have an accounts branch and an internal audit section.
(d)  Field staff recruited specifically for development projects
will normally be on contract for the duration of the project,
and should receive benefits coumensurate with their
qualifications and experience.
4.        The Internal Audit Cell will carry out independent financial
technical and performance to ensure accountability and efficiency.
5.       The Board will have adequate powers to deal with policy issues and
budgetary matters.



- 66 -
Page 1 of 8
PAISTJUI
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFI  APPRAISAL
Development of a Commrcially-Oriented Railway
A. The Business Denartment
1.       Decision making on Pakistan Railways has until now been motivated by
operating rather than business considerations. Marketing has been considered
a separate activity, with little influence on the running of the railway. At
present the role of the marketing department is constrained by:
(a)     It has only an advisory role and cannot demand the quality of
service the customer needs.
(b)     It is constrained on fares policy and on rate making.
(c)     It is understaffed, particularly on the sales aspects.
(d)     The support facilities for information, market research and
traffic costing are inadequate.
2.       Under the new organization an additional General Manger (Business)
(Grade 21/20) would become the driving force in a profit oriented enterprise,
and the operating and technical departments will perform a service function to
meet the commercial needs of PR. For the first time a Corporate Plan has been
prepared, and will form the basis of the Annual Budget.
3.       The business department would define the quality of service and
capacity needed for business expansion. On the passenger side, for example,
the number and timings of trains, the on-time performance, the type of rolling
stock, etc. would be written into a business specification, which, when agreed
with the operating and technical departments should be adhered to. On the
freight side similar parameters would be laid down, such as acceptable transit
times and supply of wagons, but in addition services would need to be adopted
to the particular needs of major customers as established by the department's
sales organization.
4.       In the areas of rolling stock and terminals, the business department
would have a leading role in investment planning and decisions. It would
specify its requirements as part of the business planning input to the
Corporate Plan, and provide detailed financial justification for its needs.
Once implemented, the department would be responsible for achieving the
earnings forecasts.



- 67 -
Annex 2. 7
Page 2 of 8
5.       The Business Department would be organized into a number of Divisions
each headed by a manager (Grade 20/19) see chart 4. They would be Corporate
Planning Division, separate Divisions for each of the major business
activities--Commercial Passenger, Local Passenger (uneconomic services: branch
line and ordinary services), Freight, and Container (Dry Ports), together with
a Terminals Division and a Support Division.
Coriorats Plannina Division
6.       The existing ad-hoc corporate planning group would be made permanent
and together with the costing cell would form the Corporate Planning Division.
The Division would (i) refine and extend the Corporate Plan annually;
(ii) develop a more sophisticated approach to the Costing and Profitability
Studies; (iii) develop the concept of feasibility studies leading to
investment proposals for the major business activities to be an integral part
of Corporate Planning; and (iv) relate the Corporate Plan to budget forecasts.
7.       The Division needs to be adequately staffed, with an organization
such as:
Manager
-       3 Deputy Managers (freight, passenger, costing)
-       3 Corporate Planning officers (direct entrants)
-       1 Computer Programmer
-       10 Marketing and Traffic Inspectors
-       2 Computer Operators (on contract)
The group would be equipped with computers, printers, etc. and air conditioned
office to maintain a dust free atmosphere for equipment.
Commercial Passenger DiviUion
8.       The Commercial Passenger Division would be responsible for developing
a strategic and tactical approach to development and marketing of the
commercial passenger business. This would require developing new skills in
Marketing Strategy, Research and Surveys, Product Planning, Fares Policy,
Budgets and Forecasting, and Business Planning. With these skills the
division would be able to undertake the tasks of:
(i)      arketn  Strategy: Defining the long-term aims and
objectives of the commercial passenger business, and the
broad approach to achieving them;
(ii)    Narket Research and Surveys:  Using the business department
support group for market surveys (including on-train surveys
to gather information on present travelers) to establish the
nature and needs of the markets, and opportunities to be
exploited;



- 68 -
Page 3 of 8
(iii)   Tei Nature of ComgSetiti:  Assessing the characteristics,
strengths, and weaknesses of competitive modes;
(lv)    Nazkt 8emeetlon: Developing separate discrete market
segments, and molding the rail services to matcb their needs;
(v)    ILgAUSCL Pl   l: Allocating and using equipment efficiently
through the revisions of train service patterns;
(vi)    Farzs Policy:  Analyzing fare levels, the criteria for
setting them, and the scope for increased revenue by
introducing differential fares, promotional fares, peak/off
peak pricing;
(vii)   ProfitabilIZZ 8urev: Using these surveys for future
planning, and, in conjunction with on-train surveys, for
modifying and improving product and profitability;
(viii) Budaets and 8tatistics: Building budget forecasts on a train
service basis, producing control statistics, and monitoring
budgets and statistics.
(ix)    Business Plannin.:  Assessing future needs of the business,
and its investment requirements, and introducing a marketing
input into the financial justification for business
investment; and
(x) PromogtinslM Actayi&: Using the sales force and prowmtional
material, advertising, together with establishing
relationships with travel agents, tour operators and tourist
boards.
9.       Under the Commercial Passenger Business Manager, there would be
Officers responsible for Marketing (Strategic Development of services,
Budgets, etc.) and for Sales (Sales and Promotional campaigns, Publicity,
etc.). Sales Executives would be located at Karachi, Lahore, Quetta, and
Peshawar (and possibly elsewhere).
Local Passenger Division
10.      The division would evaluate all local services, so as to economize or
increase earnings, prepare evaluations of the costs, revenues, and social
implications of closure, and negotiate closure or the PS0 support grant with
GOP. Within the division, one Officer would work with GOP to determine the
form in which data should be presented for PSO support or for closure and be
responsible for preparing the necessary documentation for negotiating closure
or PSO support. Another Officer would supervise the examination of each
uneconomic service and gather data on losses, transport alternatives, and
social effects.   This Officer would also work with the Operational
Improvements Group (para. 21) to reduce costs and increase revenue.



- 69 -
Annex 2.7
Page 4 of 8
11.      There will be a great deal of detailed examination of the
clrcumstances for closure or PSO support for each branch line or service.
Several field teams will be needed. Once all services have been examined in
detail, however short cut methods should be devised for subsequent analysis
and only one examination team would then be needed to evaluate major changes.
In the short-term therefore there will be a problem to provide sufficient
staff skilled in the disciplines needed.
Prei8ht Division
12.      The Frelght Manager would be responsible for the development of
profitable freight traffic to be carried by rail. This will require
establishing an integrated pattern of frelght movemont to suit customers needs
including the concept of through movement and customers shlpplng and recelving
needs. A worklng relatlonshlp would be established with major customers. The
manager will be responsible for the profitability of frelght traffic. The
manager will also develop a sales force and monitor performance.
13.      The Frelght Dlvision would be dlvided lnto a marketing group and a
sales group. The Marketing Officer and hls staff would be responsible for
strategy and product planning, budgets, input to Business and Corporate plans,
and development of investment proposals related to Frelght movement.   Work ln
speciflc areas would include:
(i)    Narketint   Strategy and Tactics:  The long-term alms and
objectives of the freight business, and the approach to
meeting them;
(ii)    Narket Research and Surveys:  The use of the support group
for market surveys to establish the nature and needs of the
market, and the opportunlties to be exploited. The sales
group would also contrlbute to this;
(iii)   The Nature of ComuetitLon:  Assessment of the strengths and
weaknesses of competing modes;
(iv)    Product Plani: The development of specifLc plans for
movement of major commodities including the effect of
different railway handling and operational methods on the
costs of the shipper/customer. The integration of the
movement to best advantage of all parties, including the use
of the rates mechanism to influence traffic movements ln the
way which optimizes the railways net income;
(v)     Rates and Charges:  The development of an appropriate rates
and charges structure to replace the present arrangements,
and establishing the concept of private and contract rates as
a sales tool;



- 70 -
Annex 2.7
Page 5 of 8
(vi)    B1udaets and Statistics:  The development of budget and
statistical controls to measure performance. Budget analysis
by individual customer and commodity. The freight division
and its manager would be responsible for the profitability of
traffic; and
(vii)   Business Planning:  Defining the business needs for
investment in equipment and systems, including the functional
design of wagons, etc, and justifying such expenditures.
Providing the Planning Group with forecasts of future traffic
movement as an input to the Corporate Plan.
14.      The Sales Officer would be in charge of Sales Executives at Officer
level (at least four) who would each be responsible for the development of
profitable traffic from major customers. The sales force in the field would
include one or two Salesmen in each division, who would provide for general
freight sales in the area. The Sales Officer would be responsible for
achieving the budget forecasts that he and his sales force had prepared.
15.      Sales Executives and Salesmen would need a wide knowledge of their
customers needs. They should preferably have railway operating experience, be
of an extrovert nature, and be numerate. To be effective, they need to be
able to appraise the alternatives for movement of large traffic flows
including the types of wagons, use of circuit working, loading and unloading
methods and timing, train load working, and the effect on the customer of the
alternatives. Good quality and timely costing advice is essential, and the
sales force would need to be able to finalize schemes with customers,
including firm rate quotations; the existing requirement need to have the
agreement of the General Manager for quoting other than the published rate
needs to be relaxed. Control would be exercised through the annual
profitability statements. The sales force would also be responsible for
monitoring the operational performance until satisfied that the customer is
receiving the quality of service promised. Thereafter the close contact
maintained with the customer would enable the sales force to ensure continued
performance. The sales force would be supported by an indoor sales office to
assist rapid customer contact with the rates force and action on problems.
Freight Container Division (Dry Port)
16.      Pakistan Railways currently has a separate Dry Port Division and it
would be convenient to keep this as a separate Container Division to
facilitate PR's forming a joint venture with private shipping and freight
forwarder interests to develop and market rail container services. The
division would manage the terminal functions as well as the marketing of the
container business. There would therefore be an Officer running the Dry Port
at Lahore and another organizing the business at Karachi, both under the
division manager. A Sales Officer would be in charge of Sales Executives for
major customers, and Salesmen based in each container center. A Marketing
Officer would be in charge of Strategic development and product planning,
budgets and input to Business and Corporate Plans.



- 71 -
Annex 2. 7
Page 6 of 8
Terminals Division
17.      This Division would be essentially the existing Commercial
Department, but without the inspectors who now assist the Marketing and Sales
Manager. The terminal division is a large organization responsible for the
work of the passenger and freight terminals, but the emphasis of its work
would change to that of customer service at competitive cost levels. At a
later stage consideration would be given to turning the division into an
independent terminal and warehousing business.
18.      The Division would be organized into separate passenger and freight
terminal groups. Their responsibility would be to provide the service levels
agreed with the marketing organizations, at minimum cost. Within these new
guidelines, staffing would remain as at present, pending detailed reviews.
62u2ort Division
19.      The Support division would contain a number of different units:
market research unit, the existing rates and fares unit, the existing
statistics unit and a small administrative unit for the business department as
a whole. The market research unit would need the services of marketing and
survey specialists, economists, statisticians, and others. If such skills are
not available within the railway, they could be acquired through 2-3 year
contracts with Pakistani market research firms.
B. On1eat.ons I3proveme3Dt
20.      Transformation of Pakistan Railways into a commercially-oriented
organization that is responsive to customers needs and business opportunities
also requires a major change in the attitudes and approach of the operations
staff. This includes such staff becoming aware of the needs of the business,
responding to and being actively involved in the problems of major freight
movement planning, in the major changes in passenger timetables to meet
emerging competition, and in providing data for business planning and for the
Corporate Plan.
21.      Pakistan Railways established, in June 1989, an Operations Task Force
to develop new methods and practices to improve the operating efficiency of
Pakistan Railways. The Task Force would be established as a permanent
Operations Improvement Group and would also assist in the realignment of
priorities as decided by the Business Department. The group and individual
task forces teams associated with the group would also assist in developing
new techniques to ensure better and more economical transport, and monitoring
procedures to measure the effects of change. Individual task force teams
would include those in the areas of goods, timetable, and locomotive
operations.



- 72 -
AMUo 2.7
Page 7 of 8
C. Oflfice Teebnolg
22.      The use of 2 small personal computers has been an invaluable aid to
the production of the 1990 Corporate Plan, and modern PC capability is needed
throughout the railway headquarters. Initially the Corporate Planning Group
and the Operational Improvement Group would be equipped with machines powerful
enough to provide terminals for the rest of their departments. Thereafter the
number would be increased so that a total of 12 machines are deployed and
cover all headquarters departments.
D.  maain  mum"
23.      GOP restructuring plan for the railways involves major organizational
changes which will affect roles and responsibilities of different departments.
PR's commercial orientation is expected to move it away from a
bureaucratically-controlled government department to an entrepreneurial type
of entity. The closest competitor to railways is the truck and bus industry,
and it is the small privately-owned trucker and bus operator who directly
impacts on PR's operations.
24.      When compared with this competition, some key inherent constraints in
a government department are: (i) overstaffing; (ii) lack of incentive for
employees to contribute to their full potential; (iii) difficulties in
supervising and controlling staff because authority is not clearly delineated;
(iv) changes are difficult to achieve as methods and procedures are imbedded
in tradition, old rules and codes; (v) delegation of responsibility is minimal
and when larger responsibility is offered, there are few takers; (vi) risk
taking is almost non-existent; (vii) decision making is slow and cumbersome;
(viii) less commitment to quLckly resolve problems; (ix) lack of coordination
and the narrow objectives affecting them or their own little creativity are
paramount; and (x) little initiative and creativity are exhibited.
25.      Although the above constraints could also be present in a private
entrepreneurial enterprise, however, it is the relative extent of these
constraints which is accentuated in a governmental department which is of
concern in operating an activity such as the railways. Therefore, these
factors would need to be addressed if PR's institutional organization is to be
changed. Such organizational change is difficult to achieve. Changes need to
be implemented without causing undue friction and resentment, a proper team
spirit and common purpose be fostered, and business, operating and technical
managers need to be able to relate to each other amicably for the common good.
Organizational change is not a one time event, but rather a process that takes
time, and managers would need to hold regular meetings in which the objectives
and problems of change are examined, plans are made, decisions are taken, and
progress is monitored and evaluated.



- 73 -
Annex 2.7
Page 8 of 8
8. kalinlna
26.     The emphasis on comercial orientation would also be propagated
through PR'8 own training program:
($)    The existing Officer Induction Course would add a three month
section on Managing a Business, the Role of Marketing, and
the support required from the technical departments.
Suitable graduates would be encouraged to start their careers
in Marketing, or subsequently to move from their own
discipline to work in marketing for a time as a part of their
career development. Indeed such experience would be made a
prerequisite for promotion to 20 grade. In this way the
business attitude would permeate management thinking.
(ii)    A new Senior Management Course for promotion to 19 grade and
above would be developed. The course would be of 2-3 months
duration and be designed to develop and expand manaement
skills, and to foster the new philosophy of management.
Outside bodies, both within the transport field and other
disciplines, would participate, and there would be studies of
selected successful private business organizations. To
expose participants to international railway practices and
developments, the course would include a short foreign visit-
-with a specific project for each participant, and a
presentation to the Railway Chairman, Board Members or
General Manager on return.
(iii)   Computer skills would be developed in all management courses.
The use of advanced personal computers in these courses will
make it possible for all graduates to be able to operate a
personal computer, and to have practical experience during
their course.
27.     On the job training would also be needed including overseas visits by
Business, Operating and Technical staff. To be effective, such visits would
take between four and eight weeks, and each person would agree in advance the
scope and range of their project. The host administration concerned would
provide expert assistance throughout the visit. On their return, the manager
would be required to present his findings to senior management, and to
implement improvements wherever appropriate.



- 74 -
hmanx2. 8
Page 1 of 6
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RaiMway Operational Imnrovement Program
A. Introduc&ion
1.       The utilization of diesel locomotives, wagons, coaches and other
assets still follows obsolete "steam age' operating practices, and has been a
major factor accounting for PR's poor quality of service and limited capacity
to move traffic. If the railway is to compete successfully with the improving
quality of road transport over the next 15 years, a major overhaul of
operating practices is needed in order to improve the quality of freight and
long distance passenger services. Also modern practices would, by increasing
capacity, have the potential for reducing unit costs and permitting greater
price competitiveness with road transport. Without the introduction of modern
operating procedures, realization of the benefits of the 5-10 year
modernization and rehabilitation program would be severely limited because the
railway could only capture the expected traffic if service quality is
improved.
2.       The operational improvement program has two main thrusts.  On the
freight side, the emphasis is on faster and more reliable wagon turnaround by
running maximum load trains in block, and where possible unit, formation
between dedicated sidings at customers factory, warehouse, port or container
terminal, which are equipped with specialized facilities to speed
loading/unloading. On the passenger side, the emphasis is on running trains
non-stop between major cities and traffic centers. Where necessary such non-
stop services would be supplemented by trains serving important district towns
and other local "work centers* which would then not need to be served by the
long distance services.
3.       A comprehensive Operational Improvement program has been prepared
which would make radical changes in the existing operational patterns in order
to establish sound operational systems for achieving the railway's Corporate
Plan objective of becoming a viable institution.Y
B. Onerational Improvements Begin in June 1989
4.       Waggn Turnar    . Until August 1989, all freight trains leaving the
Karachi area were stopped for train examination 5 times en route to
Lahore/Kundian with 3 hours delay at each point. Locomotives were also
1/      Detailed actions, responsibility and implementation schedule is
given in the attachment to this annex.



- 75 -
Anx2. 8
Page 2 of 6
changed to avoid excessive delays, while at Samasatta locomotives were changed
because the track to Kundian was not cleared for the operation of the 22 ton
axle-load Karachi-based locomotives to operate. Beginning in August 1989,
freight train examination was reduced to only two points and Karachi
locomotives were cleared to haul trains to Kundian and also to Faisalabad and
to Lahore via the Pakpattan route. Block trains of empty wagons were also no
longer examined during their journey. As a result, wagon turnaround on the
Karachi-Lahore circuit declined from 10 days to 7 days between July, 1989 and
December, 1989.
S.       Locomotives utilization:  New locomotive utilization patterns were
introduced on the Karachi-Lahore/Kundian sections to enable freight
locomotives to remain in use for seven days without vLaits to maintenance
sheds. Crew changing and locomotive fuelling are now done in yards with an
average turn-around time of 1.5 hours, compared to 6 to 8 hours previously.
Also when the Pipri locomotive shed near Karachi was recommissioned in
December 1989, the locomotive turn-around time there declined from 5.5 hours
to 1.5 hours. These measures plus the reduction in enroute delays due to
wagon oxamination and the more intensive rumning of Karachi-based locomotives
to Kundian and elsewhere, have improved the utilization of freight locomotive
on the Karachi-Lahore/Kundian circuits by 35X in the last 6 mont'xs of 1989.
C. Freight Ooerational Prorgm
Block Train Movements
6.       The operational improvement program aims to exploit the potential
for block/unit trains. This involves measures to:
use 3000 hp locomotives instead of 2000 hp locomotives on
freight trains so as to increase freight train length from 60
to 72 wagons;
-    improve terminal facilities to permit faster loading/ unloading
of a whole block of wagons at a time thus contributing to
reduced wagon turn-around times; and
-    introduce closed circuits for major commodities using dedicated
locomotives and wagons, plus merry-go-round operations for POL
products a
7.       These measures are described in detail as follows:
(a) 3000 hp-locomotives for freight trains. The 300 hp-diesel
locomotives now hauling passenger trains would be used for
hauling the 14 freight trains on the Karachi-Lahore/Kundian
circuits. This will increase the average freight train size
1/      Merry-go-round operation is where the locomotive remains with the
train during the accelerated loadingLunloading process.



- 76 -
Page 3 of 6
from 60 wagons to 72 wagonsl, save two trains per day and
release 14 locomotives to carry additional traffic. If 90
passenger trains which have very low patronage were also
cancelled, their locomotives could also be selectively used to
redeploy 1500 hp locomotives from local passenger services to
haul freight trains as coupled units with 3000 hp capability;
(b) Improved Terminal Facilities. The 18-day average turnaround of
all wagons on PR provides poor service to customers and
severely reduces the railway's freight capacity. Although POL
traffic is profitable with revenues covering even the fixed
costs, PR cannot meet the full traffic demand until the 25-day
turnaround time of tank wagons is reduced to about 6 days.
Turnaround times can be substantially reduced by introducing
specialized facilities at loading/unloading points to deal with
block trains of POL, cement, fertilizer and wheat:
For POL, PR and the oil companies have to take joint steps
to install facilities for handling a complete train
facilities so as to reduce loading/unloading to 3 hours
from its current 36 hours. GOP is also willing to assist
PR by having the oil companies load/unload wagons on a 24-
hour seven-day a week basis. A 30X increase in the
capacity for POL is feasible if terminal problems are
resolved.
= -For wheat, a number of sidings have been identified at the
wheat unloading centers for track extension in order to
accommodate complete trains in single placements. Similar
action should be taken for cement and fertilizer and other
commodities. This would result in terminal detentions to
wagons carrying these commodities declining from 3 days to
about 0.5 days.
(c)  Commodity circuits and merry-go-round operations.  701 of train
movement could be organized on the basis of commodity wise
closed-circuits with dedicated wagons and locomotives. Moving
cement, wheat and fertilizer traffic with such a pattern would
reduce turn-around time by 501 for involved wagons and thereby
provide capacity for additional traffic. Merry- %-round type
operation of POL trains would also assist in it!proving the
overall transit time of these wagons by eliminating the delays
in waiting for locomotives to be available and contribute
towards reducing POL tank wagon turn-around time to 6 days.
72 is the maximum number that can be accommodated in a standard
station loop on these routes.



- 77 -
Armex 2.8
Page 4 of 6
B5-rutinLg of freight traffic to avoid congested routes
8.       Alternative low-traffic-density single-line routes are available
beyond the double line section terminating at Lodhran, and could be used to
avoid the congested single-track main line route from Khanewal to Lahore and
Rawalpindi. Freight trains for Lahore should go via the Lodhran-Pakpattan-
Raiwind route and freight trains for Peshawar and Rawalpindi via the Kundian-
Attock route. Moving freight and passenger traffic on separate corridors
would lncrease train capacities by 201 on the respective routes. Also
avoiding the change from diesel to electric locomotives at Rhanewal would
further improve the utilization of freight locomotives.
9.       The benefits of block trains are curre-atly lost at Kundian since
trains have to be reduced to 40 wagons because the loop capacities at stations
on the Kundian-Attock section are only 40 wagons. Making this section fit for
block train operation requires (i) extending loop capacities at 6 stations to
accommodate 72 wagon trains; {ii) upgrading track to permit Karachi
locomotives to run through to Peshawar; (iii) banking of loaded 72 wagon
trains from Kundian to Attock to avoid dividing trains at Kundian; and
(iv) improving telecommunications for effective train controlling in that
sector. In the return direction, empty block trains of 72 wagons should go
also to Karachi via the Kundian route once the loop lengths are increased.
Ixproved locomotive utilization
10.      The new pattern of locomotives remaining in use for seven days
between visits to maintenance sheds has produced impressive results on the
Karachi-Lahore/Kundian circuits. These patterns should be extended to
Peshawar, Rawalpindi and Quetta Divisions so that the benefits are spread over
entire system. Freight locomotive utilization for the entire railway which
currently averages 280 Ikms per locomotive day in use would improve to 400 kms.
Closure of redundant marshallingf yards/wagon maintenance depots.
11.      The full commissioning of the mechanized Pipri marshalling yard has
eliminated train formation work at a number of Karachi area terminals. Also
with the marshalling of wagons on long distance freight trains at Pipri,
Samasatta marshalling yard now handles about one train a day only compared
with the 14 earlier since the other trains proceed beyond there without
reformation. After diversion of Peshawar and Rawalpindi traffic via Kundian,
the Chaklala yard at Rawalpindi will also become redundant. When the 15,000
roller-bearing wagons are introduced over the next 3 years, enroute freight
train examination would cease, and 12 train examination depots including "sick
lines* for wagon repair and wheel changing would be closed.
D. Passenger Operational Program
12.      For PR's long distance and intercity passenger services to remain
competitive over the next 10 years, PR needs to improve service quality.
While this will require modern equipment as proposed in the 5-10 year
investment program, the benefits from such investment will be lost unless the



- 78 -
Annex 2.8
Page 5 of 6
quality of operations is also improved. This requires improving the transit
time between the major traffic centers and the most cost-effective way of
accelerating train schedules is to eliminate intermediate stoppages. To
minimize opposition from the people affected by this, PR should plan to
introduce suitable trains to serve district and other local "work centers"
which would then not need to be served by the long distance non-stop services.
13.      The shifting of 3000 hp locomotives from long distance and intercity
passenger trains to freight trains and their substitution by 2000 hp
locomotives would require the scheduled maximum operating speed of such
passenger trains to be reduced in order to offset the use of lower-powered
locomotives and to avoid reduction in the number of coaches in the train.
However, the lower speeds could be offset and overall journey time remain
unchanged if the halt time at stations were reduced, permanent and temporary
speed restrictions removed, slack time at Divisional boundaries minimized and
the frequency of train examination reduced.
14.      The current scheduling of passenger coaches allow for excessive
layovers between trips for coach examination. However, since long distance
trains cover at most 1500 kms on each trip, coaches need only be given a
thorough *Pit" examination after each round trip, without jeopardizing safety.
This would reduce the out-station lie over of coaches from their current 10
hrs to the 1.5 hours needed for only cleaning and watering. With suitable
revised train time-tabling and pooling of coach formations, substantial
numbers of coaches could be made available for increasing the size of those
trains which are currently running with too few coaches. The revised trip
maintenance schedules for passenger coaches would also free up maintenance
capacity at major passenger terminals such as Lahore, Karachi, Rawalpindi and
Peshawar. This capacity could be used to intensify coach maintenance and
thereby improve operational reliability. These measures would improve the
overall availability of passenger coaches by 15X.
E. Conclusion
15.      The operational improvement plan consists of a series of measures to
re-deploy PR's resources to generate higher levels of operational efficiency
and service quality. They would also increase capacity and permit a modest
growth in traffic without substantial investment. With disciplined
monitoring, 801 of the proposed schemes (as seen in the Action Plan,
Annex 2.8) can be implemented within the first eighteen months. Success would
depend upon (a) setting up of task-force teams and their strengthening as per
the Action Plan and (b) fortnightly monitoring of progress by senior
management.
16.      The Operational Improvement program would achieve the following
gains:
(a) Turnaround of wagons would improve from 18 days to 13 days;
(b) PR's overall freight locomotive utilization would improve from



- 79 -
Annx 2LJ
Page 6 of 6
an average of 280 kas per locomotive per day in use to 400 kas;
(c) Establishing separate freight and passenger train corridors on
critical single-line sections will create 20X additional
capacities for moving both passengers and freight on these
lines;
(d) Average speed of freight trains will improve from 17.5 kph to
26 kph;
(e) Freight traffic capacity would grow by 21 per annum during the
next two years; and
(f) With improved availability of passenger coaches,
rationalization of time-tables and with better maintenance of
passenger coaches, passenger traffic capacity and hence
revenues would also increase by 2X per annum during the next
two years.
JTm-



OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRA
Tasks to be Performed                   Current Post                 Steps to be Taken          Agency Responsible      Tarmet Dates
for lolemlentatIon
1.  Frefaht Services
(a) 3000 hp Locomotive
1.  To enable freight trains size to          Railway Board approved    General Manager  P.R. to        General Manager, PR    InitIate by October
improve from 60-wagons to 72-wagons on    th1s in principle and      issue orders for trials to    to issue orders to      iS, 1990 and
Karachi-KundianVLahore route, 3000 hp     orders issued on           be undertaken to determine    haul freight trains    progressively
diesel locomotives should be diverted      10.3.1990 for General     the speed ihen hauled by       with 3000 hp            introduce
from passenger to freight operation.      Manger, P.R. to            2000 hp of a 16/18 coach       locomotives to the
Trials to be conducted to determine       gradually implement the   passenger train.                extent feasible.
the speed and coach c'aposition of        scheme.
long distance trains If they are to be
hauled by 2000 hp locootives.
2.  90 diesel and steam locomotives now                                  1)  Chief Marketing            Chief Marketing        July 1, 1990
hauling uneconomical and poorly                                         MNanger will nominate       Manager
patronized passenger trafns and they                                     the trains to be
require replacement as they are more                                     cancelled as a port of
than 50 years old. P.R. should evolve                                    public service
strategies to cancet these servIces                                      obligatfons list and
and tenporarily use these locomotives                                    present to General
to release the 84 1500 hp locomotfves                                    Manager.
from other passengers so that the
latter could be used on freight                                      2   General Manager will                              July 15. 1990
services as multiple units wfth 3000                                     propose to Railway
hp capability.                                                           Ninistry to process
the case for
cancellation of 90
services.                                                                 A  t
2Q rt
3) Raltway Board will         Rafilay Board to        Between
obtain Govermnent         cancel 90 ureconemie   October 1, 1990 and       -j
sanctfon.                 services and divert    October 1, 1991           0
1500 hp loemotives
to haul freight
trains.                                            o
I.
cm



(b) Terminat FacIitlSes
(i) ML
3. The turnaroud of tank wagons                General Manager SQt up      1)  Task Force is             Task Force              February 15, 19M0
utilized for transporting petroleau        a Task Force team               preparing detalled        (Petroleum prodacts)   (Completed)
products should be redueed from 25         headed by Deputy: COPS         mesures for capacity
dpys to 8 days to fully meat the           (Goods) for expeditious         expansmon at
demand. Raitways should set up a Task    iaplet.ntation.                   terminals.
Force teea consisting of
representative of Raltways and                                        2) A meeting wilt be held    Meober traffic            April 1S, 1990
petroleut coarnies to expedite the                                         between Ministry of       Railway Board           (Completed)
works relating co unloading and                                           Railtwys and Olt
loading capacities at terminals.                                          coqmpanies to agree on
lmplement the decision of cabirnet that                                   mutual responsibfli-
loading and unloaoing of POL prodcucts                                    ties and strategy to
will be done 24 hours and 7 days a                                        complete the necessary
week.                                                                     civil works.
3)  Full implementation.      Chief Engineer          February 15, 1991
(Civil) and Oil
companies.
tl1) Other ComTodStfes                                                                                                                                  4D
4. At WAeet unloading terminals in             Chairman Railway Board    Chief Engineer (Civil)          Chief Engineer          Jure 30, 1991
Peshawar area, siding lengths should       make provision in 1990-   will complete work.             (Civil)
be increased to permit full train          91 budget.
toads of wheat wagons to be placed for
unloading.
(c)   Closed Circuits
S.  in frefght operation, 70X of train         This is accepted in        Orders already issued by       Chief Nechanical        January 30, 190
movement should be organized on the        principle by General       Chietf  echanical Engineer    Engineer.                (Cowpleted)
basis of coomodity-wise closed             Manager, Pakistan          to segregate locomotives
circuits with dedicated wagons and         Railways.                  and wagons for POL                                                             o  .
locomotives. As a first step,                                         mwovement.
tranpxrtation of PUL products should
be organized on this besis. With                                      Similar train patterns to      Chief Nechanical        June 30, 1992           0 o
ifmroved locomotive avaolability in                                   be gradually implemented       Engineer
the next 2 years cement, wheat,                                       for cement, W_eat,
fertilizers and containers can also be                                fertilizers and                                                                   o
organized this way.                                                   containers.
0
'.
co



(d) Reroutins of Fraifht Trafns
6. Altl freight trains carrying traff1c        Raltway Board has           ember Trafftc to Issue        Chief, Operating        October 15. 1990
from Karachi, Punjab and the Western       accepted this In           orders to General  anager,    Superlntendent, for
Region to Peshawar and Raealpindi          principle.                 Pakistan Raflways.             fmplementation.
should move via Kundian route.
Lahore-Rawalpindi route via Lalatmsa
should be primerily for passenger
trafn operation.
7. Loop capacities be extended on the          Survey has been ordered   1) Railway Board has to                                 June 30, 1990
Kwadian-Attock City-Peshawar route at      by Chief Engineer,             make finencial
suitable stations to permit 72-wagmn       Pakistan Railways.             provision In 1990/91 &
trains originating from Karachi and                                       1992/93.
Metinud Kot areas to go through to
destinatfon without load-sheddfng.
Meaber Civlt           Augrast 30, 1990
2)  Board mtll Issue          (Railway Coard) to
orders to start work      Issue orders to
on a programmed bases.    Chief Engineer for
Irplementetfon.
72-wagon trains should be moved from                                  3) Work completion                                     June 30. 1992
Kaudfan to Attock City and
PeJshwar/Raualpindf areas.
8.  To enable extended runs of diesel          Member Civil (Rallway      Atl staff wfil be Informed    Chief Operating          Aprtl 1  1990
locomotives on block trains from           Board) Issued orders on   through notffication in         Superintendent.         (Completed)
Karachi to Peshaar, permiosion to          March 12, 1990.            goods time-table on
allou Group I locomotives (22 tons                                    April 1 1990.
axle Load) to move over the track
between Kundfan and Attock City should
be issued soon.
00
(e) hmwoved Locomotive and
ui1so  Utfl eiim                                                                                                                                     00 o
9.  Train and locomotives utilization                                      Chfef Operating               Task Force Tea          Aprft 1, 1991          ct
patterns  ihfch have proved to be                                     Superintencent will Issue      (Goods).
productive on Karachf-Lahore Kundian                                  orders.  Task Form  tea
sectors should be extended to other                                    (Dy: COPS (Goods) will
regions to achieve overall ifprovement                                 implement.
in freight train operation and reduced
turnermar d of  gomns. 
to



10. Stu/Y should be tundertaken to achieve                              t) Orders for study to be                          Corder issued
a 305 reduction In the use of low-                                      ssued by Chief
poered locomotiwee (1000 hp) and                                       Operating
below In yard shunting and work                                        Sq2erintendUnt.
trains. The lie-over of pasengeer
locomaotives could be utiltied for                                 2) Task force (Goods)                                July 1. 1991
shuwting at stations.                                                  will conduct study and
also iapletent the
11. Deployment of lotomotives for the        Raliway Board has         Instructfon to be issued      Chief Operating        August 1t 1990
exclusive use of Engineering             awcepted this fn          by Bard to 60.                Superintendent.
Department to move bellast and track     principle.
aterial Is unproductive. Main line
locomotives should be utilized for
clearing those materials on the
pattern of other freight train
movement.
12. P.R. has nominated 5000 four-wheeLer     4000 wagons are already   1) Condwuation Board to    Chief Mechanicat         April 15  1990
wagpns to be condemned. These waons    withdrawn from service.         be set up and the 4000   Engineer (Carriage      (Completed)
should be quickly cut up and removed     1000 wagons are being         wagons should be          and Waons). Chief
from books and thereby reduce            exuirned on condition         officially withdrawn      Operating Saperin-
uraconomic maintenance costs and         bases for conduumation.       from books.               tendent will order
iwprove wagon turn-aroind of the                                                                 to condemnation
remaining fleet.                                                                                 Board.
2) The sae Board will                               July 15  1990
condemn the remainfng
1000 wagons when they
are ready for
rnspection.
(f) Closure of Redundant Yards                                                                                                                        t
13. After a revision of marshalling                                    1) Chief Operating            Task Force Ter        Jure 30. 1990
instructions for freight wagons,                                       Superintendent to         (Sqods).
orders should be issued to close                                       Issue orders for                                                         03
sore aJor and efror yards, inctudfng                                   study.                                                                    rtl
Chaklala and Swnsatta.                                                                                    *             Detesher 31, 1990         %t
2) Study to be completed                                                       0
and orders for closure
issue.
x



Attachment to Annex 2.8
84      ~~~Page 5 of 6
g   -i _                  .
S                 8
A~~~~~~~~~~
LIP~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
:  _;   en ~       EbIj~
s~ ~ p 
--  I.'
"is,iji      !'        ISlSiElli,lt  l



Recent retaxation of track speed
restrictions at 45 locations shoutd
further help to reduce Journey
time.
Task Force Teams shoutd be set up                                  1) General Manager witt       Chief Operating        June 1S, 1990
consisting of Operating, ehanical                                      issue orders              Superintendent.
and Time Table Officers to Iplement
these actions.                                                     2) Task Force witl t be
positioned.
(C) Cartiaee Examination
16. Intensive examination of passenger       Chief Mechanical          1) Chief Mechanecal           Chief Mechanical       July 30, 1990
rakes plying on long distance and        Engineer (Carriage and        Engineer mltl Issue       Engineer for
Intercity trains should be dame one      Wagon) Is studying the        orders to staff to        technical clearance.
only at the coapletion of a round        scheme.                        irpternt the scheme      Chief Operating
trip, giving up the "Pit examination"                                  on selected trains for   Superintenkent for    August 1, 1990
at the outstation terminsl. At                                         the October 1990 Time    the time table
outstation, the rake should be                                         Table.                    changes
available after dry cleaning In 90"
(as against 10 hrs now), to work a                                                               Implement              October 1 1990
return train. Vith judicious poollng
of rkes, PR should be able to got
spore coaches for supienting tong                                  2) Extend the semee to                               Aprit 1, 99
distance and Intercity services now                                    other traIns in 3                                Octor 1, t992
runwino wdertload due to inadequato                                    successive time                                  April t1, 992
avoalability of coaches.                                               tables.
Oft
B t
0' ft
o
.                                                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTDR PROIECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
National Highba= Network: Condition SurvevM
Length            Percent of
ategoy                      Dal                Network         Tvye of* Work Requiredv
1.  Satisfactory: roughness value          2,681                  50           Routine Maintenance only.
less than 5000mm/km.
2.  Surface roughness exceeding            1,689                  25           Surface treatment/granular
5000mm/km., but otherwise in                                               or asphaltic overlay of the
good condition.                                                            carriageway with shoulder
makeup and repair to eliminate
the edge drop.
3.  As for category 2, but with potholes    811                   13           As for category 2, plus
and/or patches exceeding 151 of the                                        patching 251 of the roadway
surface area.                                                              surface before overlay.
4.  Surface is more than 601                 731                  11            As for category 2, plus
cracked and surface beginning                                               patching 501 of the roadway
to deteriorate.                                                             surface before overlay.
5.  Surface is non-existent or                46                   1            Complete reconstruction of the
in an advanced state of                                                     driving surface including
disintegration.                                                             shoulders, and placement of
the top 300mm of subgrade.
1/    Survey covered 901 of network.
2/    Categories 2, 3 and 4 may require a regulating course before applications
of overlay to restore cross section profile.
Source: Kampsax, Maintenance Backlog Reduction Program:
Economic Analysis and Prioritization Studv. February 1990.



- 87 -                    Annex
Page 1 of 2
AKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MBRP and RSP Designs
A.  MBRP: Overlay and Pavement Designs
1.       After reviewing the latest available equivalent axle load data for
the national highway network, it was concluded that the network could be
divided into three catogories on the basis of axle loads. For each-category,
10 year designs for asphaltic concrete overlays and new asphaltic concrete
pavement structures were developed, as summarized below:
Range of
ESAL' s
Type        Per Day       Eighway      Overlay          Pavement Structure
i    10,000 to 40,000      uS     50 mm A.C. wearing   50 mm A.C. wearing course
course
100 mm A.C. base    150mm A.C. base course
course
20Gmn granular base course
300 am subbase
2    2.000 to 10,000   N25.N5.56S,N70 50i A.C. wearing    50 mm A.C. wearing courae
and N35 South      course
of Abbottabad
50 mm A.C. base   100 mm A.C. base course
course
200m granular base course
3    Less than 2.000   R40,N50 and    25a A.C. wearing    25=m A.C. wearing course
N35 North of      course
Abbottabad
50O A.C. base     50mm A.C. base course
course
200mm granular course
Source: Kampsax, Maintenance Backlos Reduction Program: Econamic Analysis and Prioritization Stud,
February 1990.
2.     These generalized designs were used to obtain a broad assessment of the
appropriate composition, costs, and economic benefits of the MBRP. Prior to
finalizing the bidding documents for any segment, a detailed design will be
made for that segment, taking account of the load-bearing capacity of the sub-
grade, the strength of the sexisting structure, ond confirmed equivalent axle
loadings. In particular, some sections of the N5 are known to have poor



- 88 -                  Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 2
bearing capacity, and the overlay designs will have to be thicker than the
above-mentioned general designs in order to be effective in the longer term.
On the other hand, for sections of N25, NS0, N55, N65 and N70 with existing
traffic of less than 2,500 vehicles per day, a stage construction approach may
be more appropriate, utilizing the depth of granular base course required for
the ultimate pavement structure, but using a triple surface treatment as an
interim wearing course. An A/C overlay would be added at a later date.
B. RSP: Surface jreatments and Overlays
3.    Road sections to be included in the RSP fall into condition categories
1 and 2 (Annex 3.1). These sections are mostly in structurally sound
condition but have rough riding quality with localized failures. The
corrective works will include repair and patching of failed areas, including
replacement of base and sub-base materials where needed. Surfacings will
consist mainly of double/triple surface treatments. NHB will introduce
mechanical spreading of aggregates and controlled spraying of bitumen for
surface treatments in RSP contracts. In cases where detailed pavement
evaluation using deflection tests indicate the need for granular or asphaltic
overlays, such overlays will be designed for a 10-year service life based on
realistic estimates of cumulative equivalent standard axle loads (ESAL's)
obtained from loadometer surveys. The asphaltic overlays will be preceded by
a regulating course where the roughness on existing pavement exceeds 5000
mm/km after corrective repairs and patching.
4.    Detailed designs for the 1990/91 contract packages are being developed
and will be completed prior to Board Presentation. Designs for works to be
contracted in subsequent years will be developed after the detailed
composition of those annual programs has been agreed with the Bank. Generic
bidding documents have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. An
economic evaluation showing an acceptable rate of return contract by contract,
must be submitted to the Bank prior to the first disbursement for that
contract.



- 69 -
Amuex3.
TRANSPRT SWT   PROCT
STAFF APRASL REPORT
MBRP: 1990p91 Program
N5-Moro to Multan                                             Base Costs
Category 3 and 4                             18.4 km      81,000,000
Category 2                                   10.4 km      30,000,000
Reseals                                     100.0 km      39,000,000
Structures                                                25,000,000
175,000,000
N25-Bela to Khuzdar
Category 3 and 4                             54.0 km     133,000,000
Category 2                                   35.6 km      52,000,000
Less 252 by use of staged construction                  (45,000,000)
structures                                                13,000,000
153,000,000
N35-Abbottabad to Thakot
Category 3 and 4                              1.2 km       4,000,000
Category 2                                   35.6 km      40,000,000
Structures                                                 5,000,000
49,000,000
TOTALS:
Reconstruction                              144.0 km     377,000,000
Reseals                                     100.0 km



- 9o -
pn   3.4
Page 1 of 4
SSAF APPRZL R"T
RailwaX Institutional Development Component
Introducsia
1.       Pakistan Railways requires assistance for:
(a)   The introduction and development of the new organization
designed to create a commercially-oriented management.
(b)   Techniques to improve operational efficiency.
(c)   Motivation and Training of staff.
2.       Decision making on Pakistan Railways has been motivated by operating
rather than commercial business considerations. Marketing had little
influence on the running of the railway. Under the new organization, the
additional General Manager (Business) will become the driving force in a
profit oriented environment, 4nd the operational and technical departments
will be required to perform a service function to meet marketing needs. These
new relationships will result in considerable transfer of power, and change of
responsibilities and technical advice will be needed to manager the major
changes, and to guide management in their new responsibilities.
Nbna8ing ChanMe
3.       Implementation and welding together of the new organization will take
a least three years and require:
(i)   Retreats for Senior Management, at which managers will be
invited to join in the formulation of the new organization and
transition problems. The new priorities would be explained,
policy expounded, and commitment to the new orgsnization
ensured. About nine such retreats over 3 years are required.
(ii) Management Development advisors who are skilled and experienced
in the management of change will be needed. One per;,n would
have taken a leading part in similar major changes in railway
organization elsewhere, with the ability to develop the methods
by which changes would be implemented smoothly. The second
would be concerned with easing the attitudinal stresses



. 91 -
Annex 3.4;
Page 2 of 4
generated by the changes. The experts would make a series of
visits over 3 years; total being about 20 staff months.
DeVeoOIn  oew Skills
4.       New management skills would be developed by:
(a)   Business and Operational Denartments
Advisors would assist PR staff in the business areas and also
in the operational areas where the focus of effort Till change
considerably:
(1)   Commercial Passenner Marketiun:  to develop new skills in
Marketing Strategy, Research and Surveys, Product
Planning, Fares Policy, Budgets and Forecasting, and
Business Planning.
(ii)  Local and Dranch Passen;er Business:  to develop a
programme to examine all local services, to economize or
increase earnings, and to prepare evaluations of the
costs, revenues, and social implications of closure.
Also to negotiate closure or a support grant (PS0) with
GOP.
(iii) Freinbt and Container Businesses: building an integrated
pattern of freight movement to meet customers needs
including the concept of through movement needs. Develop
relationships with major customers. Develop
responsibility for profitability of traffic obtained.
The role of the Sales force. Monitoring performance.
(iv) CorDorate Plan and Profitebilitv Studies: to refine and
extend the current Corporate Plan. To develop a more
sophisticated approach to the Profitability Studies. To
develop the concept of feasibility studies leading to
Investment proposals for individual businesses to be an
integral part of Corporate Planning. To relate the
Corporate Plan to the budget forecasts.
(v)   QperatngIl Lmprvmms:  Linking improvements to the
needs of the business. Responding and actively becoming
involved in the problems of major freight movement
planning, and major changes in passenger timetables to
meet emerging competition. Providing data for business
planning and for the Corporate Plan.
For this purpose eight advisors would be needed over three
years, totaling 82 staff months.



- 92 -
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 4
(b) Visits by Business and Technical Managers
Considerable benefits can be derived from four to eight
week visits by Business and Technical staff. Each person
would agree in advance the scope and range of their
project and on their return would present their findings
to senior management, and to implement improvements
wherever appropriate. The host administrations overseas
would be paid to provide expert assistance throughout the
visit. About 20 visits a year spread over all
disciplines would be needed for three years. Not least
of the benefits would be the opportunity to see modern
railway management at work.
(c) Assistance to Corporate Develognent Accountint. and
Personnel. Departments
A Program of technical advise on modern methodology and
practice in these areas would be afforded by specialist
consultants from within Pakistan.
(d)   Personnel Computers
The use of personal computers has been an invaluable aid
to the production of the present Corporate Plan and there
is an urgent need to extend the capability throughout the
railway. Initially the Corporate Planning Group and the
Operational Improvement Group would each be equipped with
machines powerful enough to provide terminals for the
rest of their departments. Thereafter the system would
be expanded so that a total of 12 machines would be
deployed at HQ and would cover all headquarters
departments.
TrALul,
5.       The emphasis on the Business Led organizations must be propegated
throughout the training program:
(a)   The Officer Induction Course will include a three month section
on managing a business, the role of marketing, and the
essential support required from the technical departments.
Suitable graduates would be encouraged to start their careers
in Marketing, or subsequently to move from their own discipline
to work in marketing for a time as a part of their career
development. Indeed such experience should be made a



- 93 -
Anmaex 3.4
Page 4 of 4
prerequisite for promotion to 20 grade. In this way the
business attitude would permeate management thinking.
(b)   A new Senior Management Course will be introduced, of two to
three months duration. It will be designed to develop and
expand management skills, and to foster the new philosophy of
management. Participation by outside bodies, both inside and
outside the Transport field would be encouraged, and there
would be studies of selected successful private business
organizations. The course would include a ten-day foreign
visit - again with a specific project for each participant, and
a presentation to Chairman or Board Members on return.
(c)   These courses will require the development of skills in the
design and construction of courses, and in the management and
evaluation of results. Expert advisors will be provided at
each stage.
(d)   The Railway Training School Director and Deputy would join an
advanced training course in management of a school. There
should also be assistance from Pakistan experts to develop
teaching skills among the Training School Instructors who spend
from two to five years teaching pupils. The Instructors
currently have a wide range of experience and seniority, but at
present have not had any formal training themselves.
(e)   It is essential to develop computers skills throughout
anagement. The use of advanced personal computers will make
It possible for all graduates to be able to operate a personal
computer, and to have had practical experience during their
course. In addition the Training School will train Word
Processor and Database operators.
MQ=4



- 94 -
Annoy, 3 5
Page 1 of 10
PATISTAI
TRANSPORT SET   PCT
STAFF APPRAISL REPORT
Terms of Reference for RailwI= Technical Assistance
1.          Major institutional and managerial changes are needed for PR to
develop a commercially-oriented business-led approach. Also a Business
Department would be established which would become the driving force in a
profit oriented enterprise. The Department would consist of seven divisions:
Corporate Planning, Commercial Passenger, Local Passenger, Freight,
Containers, Terminals and Supporting Services. Modern business methods also
need to be to be introduced into the Railways training courses and senior
management training course established. In addition, an operational
improvement group is spearheading efforts to improve PR's operating
efficiency. Expert advisors are needed to assist in the above areas.
I. Advisors: Mansaement of Change
2.          The introduction of a 'Business Lead' organization is a new
departure for Pakistan Railways. Inevitably there will be areas of conflict
where managers are loath to give up old areas of control and to operate to
different targets set by a new Department. There is therefore an urgent need
for expert advise to smooth the transition, to avoid conflicts, and to instill
a new Corporate entity, quite different from anything previously experienced.
Outline of Reonirements
3.          The requirements would be to:
(i)   Develop seminars and retreats for managers to discuss the
new organization and problems arising from the change;
(ii)   Expound new policies, explain new priorities and obtain
commitment to the new organization;
(iii)   Deal with areas of conflict; and
(iv)   Obtain the enthusiastic acceptance of the new organization
from all managers.
Resources
4.          One advisor is needed to formulate plans for the management of
change at Senior and mid-Management level. The advisor would have taken a
leading part in similar changes in railway organization elsewhere, and have



- 95 -
Annex 3.S
Page 2 of 10
the expertise to develop the methods by which changes would be made and
accepted. The advisor would spend an initial period of about two months
assessing the likely problem areas involved in the changeover to the new
organization and ways of handling them. He would structure a series of
'retreats' for managers. He would return for about two months to assist in
managing the changeover, and subsequently, return periodically for visits
lasting 1-2 months to deal with problems. The assignment would be spread over
a period of about three years and total to about 12 months.
5.          A second advisor is needed who would be skilled in the attitudinal
aspects of management change, and in ways of minimizing the stress and
conflict of human relationships. The second advisor would follow a similar
visit pattern to the first advisor but would be involved for briefer but more
frequent periods advising on attitudinal problems as they arose. The
assignment would total to about eight months.
II. Advisor: Commercial Passenger Business
6.          The manager of the Commercial Passenger Division will need
guidance in setting up and operating his division. An advisor is required to
spend a total of about 12 months, spread over three years, for that purpose.
Outline of Requirements
7.          The requirements would be to:
(i)   examine present practices, and discuss with P.R. Managers
their problems and needs, as they see them;
(ii)   consider and advise on the proposed new organization;
(iii)   advise in detail on all aspects of effective marketing; and
(iv)   monitor the organization as it evolves and assist in
formulating solutions to problem areas.
8.          The main areas requiring assistance are:
(i)  Narketina Strategy:  The long-term aims and objectives of
the business, and the broad approach to achieving them;
(ii)  Market Research and Surveys:  The use of the support group
within the business department for market sur.veys to
establish the nature and needs of the markets, and
opportunities to be exploited. On-train surveys would be
used to establish information on existing passengers;
(iii) The Nature of Cgo tition:  Assessment of the
characteristics, strengths, and weaknesses of competitive
modes;



- 96 -
ADmD 3.5
Page 3 of 10
(iv) narket Seamentation: Techniques of separating discrete
market segments, and molding the rail services to match
their needs;
(v)   goduct Planning: The allocation and use of equipment. The
revisions of train service patterns. Maximizing the use of
equipment. Relationships with operating and timetable
planning staff;
(vi)  Fares Policy:  General fare levels, and the criteria that
govern them. Differential fares. Promotional fares,
peak/off peak pricing;
(vii)  Profitability Surveys: Uses for future planning.
Consideration, with on-train surveys, towards modifying and
improving product and profitability;
(viii) Budeets and Statistics: Building budget forecasts on a
train service basis production of meaningful control
statistics. Monitoring budgets and statistics.
(ix) Business Planing: Assessing future needs of the business,
investment requirements and other changes. Marketing input
into financial cases for business investment. Forecasts of
financial results in future years, with alternatives
reflecting alternatives in investment, and economic outlook;
and
(x)   Pgomot lM  Actix    :  Sales force activity. Use and
distribution of promotional material. Use of advertising.
Relationship with travel agents, tour operators, and tourist
boards.
Resources
9.          The advisor would spend an initial period of 2 months to discuss
and assist the formation of the organization. A second visit of two months
would be used to advise on the start up period of the new organization.
Further visits lasting about one month each and totaling in all about twelve
months would be needed to follow up on progress achieved and to advise on
specific areas, where problems had been experienced.
10.         The advisor would have had first hand knowledge of a modern
business-led marketing organization, and be capable of relating to the
circumtances of major reorganization and change of management style that will
be taking place on Pakistan Railways.



- 97 -
Amex u3.5
Page 4 of 10
III. Advisor: Local Passenger Buainess
11.         The manager of the Local Passenger Division will need assistance
in setting up and operating his division. Two advisors will be required to
review the organization needed, and to guide the preparation of proposals for
compensation claims (PSO) from GOP or for closure of unremunerative passenger
train services. They would advise also on the composition of task forces and
the optimum use of scarce management resources for these purposes. Between
them they would spend a total of twenty months, spread over about three years,
for that purpose.
Outline of ReanXiements
12.         The requirements would be to:
(i)   Examine data presently available and discuss minimum
requirement for proper appraisal of loss making services;
(ii) Advises on measures to reduce costs and enhance revenue;
(iii)   Relationships with other departments;
(iv)   Fares Policy;
(v)   Evaluation of economics of Branch closures and discontinuing
ordinary train service on main lines;
(vi)   Consideration of alternative transport, and the social
effect, internal and external, of closure;
(vii)   Other possible resource enhancement possibilities; and
(viii) Preparation of financial data for closure on commercial
grounds, or payment of PSO support grant by Government of
Pakistan.
Resources
13.         One advisor would be experienced in the preparation of cases for
PSO compensation or for closure and the other would be concerned with the
social Impact of any proposals. They would spend an initial period of 2
months to discuss and assist the formation of the organization. A second
visit of two months would be used to advise on the start up period of the new
organization. A further period of two months would be used to advise and
monitor the first cases for grant or closure to be developed by Pakistan
Railways. Further visits would be needed to advise on specific areas where
problems had been experienced.



- 98 -
Anx3.5
Page 5 of 10
14.         The experts would have first hand experience of the procedures to
be adopted in dealing with unremunerative passenger services, be capable of
relating to the circumstances of a major reorganization to a business-lead
structure on Pakistan Railways, and the problems associated with railway
closures and the introduction of the initial concept of grants for socially
required passenger trains.
IV. Advisor: Freight Iusineas
15.         The manager of the Freight Division will require guidance in
setting up and operating the organization. An expert advisor is required to
spend a total of about twelve months, spread over about three years for that
purpose.
Outline of Reouirements
16.         The requirements would be to:
(i)   Examine present practices, and discuss with Pakistan
Railways' Managers their problems and needs, as they see
them;
(ii)   Consider and advise on the proposed new organization;
(iii)   Advise in detail on all aspects of the strategic and
tactical approach to Marketing the Freight Business;
(iv)   Advise on the composition and duties of the Sales force;
(v)   Advise on relationships with other parts of Pakistan
Railways in the development of an integrated pattern of
traffic movement to meet customer needs.
(vi)   Advise on relationships between the Sales force and
Customers, particularly in considering all aspects of
traffic movement from the points of view of both the
customers and the railway.
(vii)   !onitor the organization as it evolves and advise on
solutions to problems which arise.
17.         The main areas requiring assistance are:
(i)   Marketin  Strategy and Tactics:  The long-term aims and
objectives of the business, and the broad approach to
meeting them;
(ii)   Markt Research and Surveys:  The use of the specialist
group within the Business Department for market surveys to



- 99 -
AD= DE5
Page 6 of 10
establish the nature and needs of the market, and the
opportunities to be exploited. The contributions from the
sales force to this process;
(iii) The Nature of Comnetition: Assessment of the strengths and
weaknesses of competing modes;
(iv) Product Planning: The development of specific plans for
movement of major commodities including the effect of
different railway methods on the costs of the
shipper/customer. The integration of traffic movements to
the best advantage of all parties, including the use of the
rates mechanisms to influence movement in the way which
optimizes rail net income;
(v) OrgMnization of the Sales Force: The concept of Sales
Executives for major customers. The use of a general sales
force, its size and location. The use of a headquarters
sales orfice for rapid customer contact with the sales
force;
(vi)   Rates and Charges:  The development of an appropriate rates
and charges structure to replace the present arrangements.
The concept of private and contract rates as a sales tool;
(vii)    Budgets and Statistics:  The development of budget and
statistical controls to measure performance, Budgeting by
individual customer and commodity, and commitment of the
sales force to the achievement of targets they have
themselves set. The responsibility of the Business
Department for the profitability of traffic secured to rail
transport; and
(viii)   Business Planning:  Defining the Business needs for
investment in equipment and systems appropriate to strategic
aims, including the general design of vehicles, etc.
Providing the justification for such expenditure. Providing
the Planning Group with forecasts of future traffic movement
as an input to the Corporate Plan, with alternatives
reflecting the effects of constraints on the desired result.
RaI-rces
18.         The advisor will spend an initial period of 2 months to discuss
and assist with the formation of the new organization. A second visit of two
months would coincide with the start-up of the new organization. Further
visits would be needed to advise on specific areas where problems had been
experienced.



- 100 -
Page 7 of 10
19.         The expert advisor would have first hand knowledge of a modern
business led organization, and be capable of relating to the circumstances of
a major reorganization and change of management style such as is now taking
place on Pakistan Railways.
V. Advisor: Container Busliness
20.         The manager of the Container Division will be responsible for the
development of profitable container traffic to be carried by rail, and will
require guidance in setting up and operating his organization. An advisor is
required, to spend a total of about twelve months, spread over about three
years, for that purpose.
Outline of Requirements
21.         The requirements and areas of interest would cover similar topics
as for the freight advisor but focus on container traffic.
Regource
22.         The advisor will spend an initial period of 2 months to discuss
and assist with the formation of the new division. A second visit of two
months would coincide with the start-up of the division. Further visits would
be needed to advise on specific areas where problems had been experienced.
23.         The expert advisor would have first hand knowledge of developing
railway container business and be capable of relating to the circumstances of
a major reorganization and change to managamnt style such as is now taking
place on Pakistan Railways.
VI. AdvLsors: Coruorate Planning Group
24.         The Corporate Planning Division will be concerned with Business
Planning, Profitability Studies, and Traffic Costing. Guidance will be needed
in developing these new functions for Pakistan Railways. One advisor is
required to work with the Corporate Planning Group, spending about 12 months
over a period of 3 years. A second advisor is required to refine and develop
the Profitability Analysis, spending about 4 months over a period of 3 years.
Outline of Requirements
25.         The requirements would be to:
(i) Examine the work of the Corporate Planning Group to date,
and discuss with them their problems and needs, as they see
them;
(ii)   Advise on structure and strength of their organization;



- 101 -
Annex 3.5
Page 8 of 10
(iii) Develop the Corporate Plan process, integrating investment
requirements, and incorporating cash flows; operational
plans, resource plans, and risk analysis;
(iv) Refine the Profitability Study, using computer techniques
for analysis, and the existing cost center data so that it
more closely reflects the Cost structure;
(v) Monitor the organization as it evolves and advise on
solutions to problem areas; and
(vi) Develop feasibility studies and investment evaluation as
input to the Corporate Plan.
Resources
26.        The advisor on the Corporate Plan would spend an initial period of
one month to discuss and assist the formation of the organization. Thereafter
visits of ono month duration would be made over a period of 3 years. The
advisor would have first hand knowledge of preparation of Corporate Plans for
a railway of similar characteristics to those of Pakistan Railways. The
advisor must be able to adapt methods and techniques to meet the particular
eircumstances of Pakistan.
27.        The advisor on the Profitability Studies would work with the
division for periods each of about two weeks duration over three years. The
advisor would be experienced in the use of personal computers to assemble and
analyze data and to provide a flexible costing system and would also be
familiar with the cost center concept as used on Pakistan Railways.
VII. Advisor: Oporational IMMes
28.        An Operations Improvement Group has been established to develop
new methods and practices to improve the operating efficiency of Pakistan
Railways. The Group will also assist in the realignment of the priorities
under which the Passenger and Freight Businesses managers within the Business
Department will take a leading role in those improvements which they believe
to be essential. New techniques will be needed to develop better and more
economical transport, and monitoring procedures to measure the effects of
change.
29.        An advisor is required to assist the Operational Improvement
Group, spending about 12 months over a period of three years.
Outline of Reanirements
30.        The requirements would be to:



- 102 -
Annex 3. 5
Page 9 of 10
(i)   Examine progress to date, and discuss problems and needs, as
seen by the Group;
(ii)   Advise on structure and strength of the organization;
(iii)   Develop an Operations Plan incorporating the planned
improvements;
(iv)   Assist with the development of methods for feasibility
studies for major projects; and
(v)   Contribute to the development of relationships with the
Business Departments. In particular the role and
contribution of the Group to major changes planned by the
Business Department as well as the restructuring of the
Passenger timetable.
Resources
31.         The advisor to the Operations Improvements Group would spend an
initial period of two months to explore the present situations and to advise
on techniques and staffing. A second period of two months would be spent with
the group when implementing the organization. Thereafter month long visits
would be used to develop particular projects, and to assist with problems
areas.
32.         The advisor would be skilled in organizing change for both
improved economies of service, and for a better quality product as needed by
the Business Department. The advisor would have a wide range of experience on
which to draw, but also the flexibility to adapt to the particular
circumstances of Pakistan Railways. The advisor must have experience of a
railway where the role of the Business Departments is paramount. The advisor
should have a broad understanding of the railway cost structure and how this
is reflected in financial evaluation of projects.
VIII. Advisor: Training
33.         Training has a vital role in realigning management thought toward
a business approach and the acceptance by the remaining departments of the
increased and dominant influence of the Business Department.
34.         Some of this process will be covered by the expert advisors on
management of change, but in addition the new orientation must be included in
the formal and informal training of all staff. An advisor is needed to spend
a total of about 12 months spread over three years to (i) develop a formal
Senior Management Course, (ii) introduce the "Business led* concept to the
Officer Induction Course, (iii) introduce bu3iness led concepts to other staff
training courses; and (iv) outline the methodology to disseminate information
on the changed structure to all levels of employee.



- 103 -
Annxr  3-S
Page 10 of 10
Outline of Reouirements
35.         The requirements would be to:
(i)   Assist the staff of the Railway Walton Training School in
planning and designing a new 2-3 month course for Senior
Managers. The course would be designed to develop and
expand management skills, and to foster the new philosg-"ay
of management. Participation by outside bodies, both inside
and outside the Transport field would be included, and there
would be studies of selected successful private business
organizations. The course would include a 10 day foreign
visit - with a specific project for each manager, and a
presentation to Chairman, Board Members and General Manager
on return;
(ii) Assist in designing a three month unit for inclusion in the
Officer Induction Course to cover the structure and goals of
the organization, with emphasis on the role and activities
of the Marketing and Business Organizations. The students
should reach a stage of knowledge where some would opt to
start their railway career in the business sector, or would
wish to transfer and spend some time during their later
careers. In this way the needs of the Business led approach
would become disseminated and accepted throughout Railway
management. The course would include training in the
operations and use of personal computers;
(iii) Advising on the methods to be used to spread information on
the new management structure through the rest of the
organization including during supervisor training and to
emplovees at ground level;
(iv) To assist at the launch of both the Senior Management
Course, and the Officer Induction Course; and
(v)   To monitor the effectiveness of the training and modify as
necessary.
Rssoures
36.         The advisor would spend an initial period of three months
designing and structuring the two formal courses, and advise on training at
lower levels. He would return to monitor thc, first of each of the courses for
a period of three months, and to observe the effectiveness of training at
lower levels. Thereafter visits of about one month over a period of three
years would deal with problem areas and the changing emphasis for the later
Senior Management Courses.



- 104 -
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 6
PAISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR LOAN
SAFF APPRASAL REPORT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR RAILWAY STUDIES
RAILWAY ACCOUNTING IMPROVEMENT STUDY
I.    The Overall Study
Preamble;
1.       As a part of implemwnting of a financial restructuring program,
Pakistan Railways (PR) intends to implement an Accounting Improvement Study
(AIS) to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of its financial function.
In particular, PR's overall accounts as prepared presently would be separated
into railway operations, its manufacturing units (Locomotive Factory,
Risalpur; Carriage Factory, Islamabad; Steel Shop, Lahore; and five Concrete
Sleeper Factories) and other units, which may be identified as manufacturing
units. Such AIS is necessary to accelerate the process of financial recovery
for PR as well as to sustain the benefit of the financial restructuring
program.
II. Design and Development of a Modern Accruals
Based Accounting System
Objective:
2.       The objective of AIS is to design and develop a modern accruals based
accounting system for PR and its manufacturing units that conforms to
commercial accounting.
Scgge of Work
The work includes, but is not limited to the following:
-     Study the Government uniform accounting system presently
followed by PR and prepare a report indicating conformity, or
lack thereof, with commercial accounting standards.
-    Prepare a "Statement of Accounting Principles and Policies for
PRO (thb Statement) for approval and adoption by it's Board of
Directors. The Statement should conform to commercial



- 105 -
Annex 3.6
Page 2 of 6
accounting standards and should encompass at least the
following generally accepted accounting principles: going
concern concept; consistency concept; current cost convention
(i.e. revaluation of assets and liabilities); true and fair
presentation with adequate disclosures; accrual basis
accounting; no retrospective adjustments to prior period
revenues/costs; no offsetting of assets and liabilities (unless
a legal right exists); and no deferment of loss write-offs.
The accounting policies to be included in the Statement should
cover, as a minimum, the following areas: capital expenditure
accounting; fixed asset accounting; fuel accounting; material
accounting; accounting for borrowings; accounting for
investments; and other appropriate accounting peculiar to an
entity's activities.
In cases where the recommended accounting policy differs from
the commercial accounting standards, the differences should be
highlighted and accompanied by a justification.
The statement should be accompanied by: (i) a detailed chart
of Accounts showing all the main accounts and the subsidiary
accounts; and (ii) a detailed implementation program showing
(a) the mapping of existing accounting heads with those of the
new system; (b) the timing of implementing the system in the
various accounting units; and (c) the program to train PR's
personnel in maintaining the new system.
Suggest the debt/equity proportion each entity should carry on
its accounts.
Designed Financial Accounting System should be capable of
generating cost accounting information/data.
The above principles should be applied to clearly identify and
facilitate preparation of separate accounts for PR's operations
and each manufacturing unit/activity. In particular PR
accounts should clearly identify revenue and costs for services
which are or could be financially viable and those services
which are commercially unviable. In this category the concept
of Public Service Obligations (PSO) should be defined, costed
and accounts separated. PSO are those services and activities



- 106 -
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 6
such as certain passenger and freight services which cannot be
conmercially viable, employing surplus labor, schools,
hospitals and police. In effect services a commercial entity
would not normally undertake, but which PR is obligated to
offer on behalf of GOP and for which PR would be reimbursed for
the net cost/loss.
-     Immediately after adoption of the new accounting system by PR's
Board of Directors, the consultant should implement the new
system in accordance with the implementation program.
III. Verification of Fixed Assets, Current Assets and Liabilities
Objectives:
3.       The objectives are to:  (a) recast the financial position of PR and
the Manufacturing Units in accordance with the new accounting system; and
(b) develop accounting records based on the revised accounting system.
ope of Work
4.       The work should include, but is not limited to, the following:
-    Undertake a physical verification of fixed assets and establish
fixed asset registers for each fixed assets in operation in PR
and its manufacturing units. The fixed assets registers
should, as a minimum, reflect:
Mi)    physical (historical) cost;
(ii)   revaluation of the fixed assets defining appropriate
methodology used;
(iii)  depreciation of the assets and the methodology applied
to both historical and revalued assets;
(iv)   net fixed assets in historical cost terms;
(v)    net revalued fixed assets; and
(xi)   revaluation reserve for each asset.
The fixed asset registers should also provide for annually
recording the above data for each year until the asset is in
service.



- 107 -
Annex 3.6
Page 4 of 6
-    Undertake a physical verification of the works-in-progress.
(i) establish accounting records; (ii) provide for recording
such costs until the asset is under construction; (iii)
transfer to fixed assets, any asset that is operating and not
transferred to fixed assets; (iv) establish records for capital
spares (i.e. inventories to be used for projects) as opposed to
maintenance spares; and (v) identify obsolete assets and write-
off these from the asset base.
-    Undertake a physical verification of the spares and
inventories. Also (i) separate capital inventories from
maintenance inventories; (ii) establish records for maintenance
inventories; and (iii) write-off inventories that are missing
and those that are unusable.
-     JUndertake a verification of other current assets and establish
records to reflect the correct status of these current assets.
-     JUndertake a physical verification of the current liabilities
(which include accounts payable, unpaid salaries taxes and
other contractual obligations) and (i) separate the overdue
debt service amounts to goverrment, local lenders and foreign
lenders; and (ii) establish records to reflect the realistic
situation after obtaining confirmation of balances from PR's
creditors.
-    Prepare separate profit and loss, balance sheet and source and
application of funds statements for PR and its manufacturing
units (either individual units or by grouping as identified in
a separate study of manufacturing units), using the above
established records as well as PR's outstanding long-term debt,
after obtaining confirmation of balances from each local and
foreign lenders and the Government.
IV.  ImMlementation of the Accounting-Imrovement Study (AIS)
Obiectives:
5.      The main objective of the AIS is to desien and imnlement information
systems and procedures that will be responsive to planning, operation, control
and administrative requirements of PR and the Manufacturing Units. It is
envisaged that a comprehensive NIS will be computer based and will comprise
several sub-systems, properly interlinked,and which have a common set of
objectives including the following:



- 108 -
4am,L3
Page 5 of 6
(a)   the flexibility of design that will be responsive to:
generating cost accounting data, expansion, changing corporate
structure, changing technology, government regulations and
other external and economic factors; and
(b)   the flow of comprehensive management information accurately and
on a timely basis at minimal cost.
(c)   flow of information that would reflect transition from a
Government Department based accounting system kept manually
toward a computer-based accounting system; in this context PR
has initiated action on a computer-based Management Information
System (HIS), which should be taken into account in designing
PR's accounting system, so that it could be dovetailed into
HIS.
62o22 of Nork
6.       The consultant should do everything that is necessary to achieve the
objectives of this phase and should analyze an adequate number of alternatives
and support the final recommendations with the relevant data. The work
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(a)   conduct a review of PR's current operations from a point of
view of identifying the constraints and bottlenecks in the flow
of information;
(b)   establish PR's major areas i.e. commercially-viable and
unviable services, other PS0 items, material management,
construction works, manufacturing units, etc. for which sub-
systems would be designed and developed;
(c)   for each of the sub-systems identify the management information
requirements and associated staffing needs taking into account
the functional linkages among the sub-systems;
(d)   for each of the sub-systems, provide:
(i)    a detailed description and flow chart of the processing
required;
(ii) sample of input documents with sources of raw data;



- 109 -
Annex 3.6
Page 6 of 6
(iii) list of files to be maintained including contents of
files;
(iv)   details of reports including contents, format, frequency
and audience;
(v)    ways and means to achieve consistency in the
interlinkages with other sub-systems; and
(vi)   identify the training needs for operating and
maintaining the sub-system including timing and duration
of training.
(e)   for each of the sub-systems, the consultant should prepare the
plans for automating the sub-system. This must include an
overview of the system features and the costs and benefits
associated with the automation of these sub-systems. The
produced plans must also include system specifications which
would support detailed design, programming and implementation.
(f)   PR and the Manufacturing Units Intend to have their own
gersonnel iarticipate actively in the work with the
consultant's personnel. It will therefore supply sufficient
counter2art nersonnel to work on all aspects of the work. The
quality and timeliness of the output, however, will remain the
full responsibility of the consultant. PR and the
Manufacturing Units will also provide the consultant with all
available information relating to the existing policies,
procedures, systems, etc., and any other data requested by the
consultants as necessary to meet the objective of the AIS.
(g)   The consultant will be required to train counterpart PR and the
Manufacturing Units staff, including on-the-iob training and
will be responsible for preparation of detailed relevant
mAnuals for all phases of the assignment.



- 110 -
Annex -5. 1
Page 1 of 3
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Basis for Pakistan Railways Financial Forecasts
1.       In 1961 the Railway was "separated" from the Government and prepared
its own budget and accounts but in recent years PR has been treated as a
Government department in all matters except its liability to pay a dividend on
Capital-at-Charge. PR's accounts are kept on the basis of annual receipts and
expenditures though there is a slow change towards keeping commercial
accounts. Under GOP's railway restructuring plan, PR's budget from 1990/91
would be "seRarated" from the Government budget. Also, Corporate plan will
form part of PR's budget package.
2.       Funds for CaRital Investment
A.   ReDlacements are provided as follows:
Local Currency
(i) Provided by PR from the Depreciation Reserve Fund;
(ii) A shortfall in any one yeat is provided by GOP as "grant in
aid" and added to the Capital-at-Charge.
Foreign Currency
Provided by GOP. From the DRF, PR pays to GOP the local currency
equivalent of debt service. The on-lending terms are arranged so
that GOP retains the benefit of any concessional financing. Current
terms of on-lending are 20 years including four years of grace,
interest is 111.
B.   Additional Capital Investment
Local Currency
Provided by GOP and added to Capital-at-Charge.
Foreign Currency
Provided by GOP. PR pays the local currency equivalent of interest.
Then, as the principal is repaid, an equivalent sum is added to PR's
Capital-at-Charge attracting a liability to dividend in perpetuity.



- Ill -
Annex 5L
Page 2 of 3
Fixed Aissets
3.       Fixed assets registers were made for assets as at July 1, 1973 and
updated at July 1, 1976 and this was done every three years and valued at
current replacement costs. The exercise was undertaken according to methods
designed by consultants, Booz Hamilton and Co. in 1968. The work was reviewed
in 1978 by consultants SOFRERAIL as part of the Costing and Tariff Study.
Between the years when assets are methodically revalued, the charge for
depreciation is increased annually by indexing.
The Improyement Fund
4.       The Fund is used to finance minor capital works on Public and
Passenger Amenities, Staff Welfare, Unremunerative Projects Research and
Development. The Fund is financed by an appropriation of 5.51 from the
earnings from passenger fares.
Assumptions for Future Xears
5.       Figures for FY90 based on 9 month actual results were used as the
base year, with 8,938 million ton/kms for revenue earning freight. Traffic is
assumed to increase 21 p.a. in FY91 and FY92 and 31 thereafter for FY93 to
FY97.
6.       Also PR's figures for FY90 based on nine month actual results were
used as the base year with 20,938 million pass/kms for passenger service.
Passenger traffic measured in passenger/kms is assumed to increase at 2.75X
p.a. This is lower than the actual growth rate of the last ten years but is
prudent in view of the measures proposed to reduce some under-priced passenger
services.
Costs
7.       Operating expenses are based on the price levels of 1989, increased
by 71 per annum for estimated inflation. Fuel consumption is assumed to be
directly variable with tons/kms and passenger/kms. Labor costs assume
decrease in staff strength of 2.51 p.a. and salary pay scales to increase by
71. Material and other costs are expected to increase by 71 p.a.
Net Operating Surnlus/Loss
8.       A 101 p.a. tariff increase is assumed.  A surplus in a given year
would be applied to paying a dividend on Capital-at-Charge and then to either
repaying any amounts of unpaid debt service or a contribution to Capital
Development Expenditure.
Dividend on CaDital-at-Charge
9.       At July 1, 1989, the Capital-at-Charge was RsI3,303 m.  The estimated
full amount of dividends for FY91 to FY97 are: m 1 - Rs813.3 m; FY92 -
Rs828.9 m; PY93 - Rs842 m; FY94 - Rs860.3 m; FY95 - Rs875.2 m; FY96 -
Rs880.4 m; and FY97 - Rs885.6 m.



- 112 -
Page 3 of 3
Changes in Gosts and Revenue
10.        The ratios between the 4 main elements of cost are:
Actual for 1988/89      Estimated for 1996/97
Labor             461                      501
Fuel              161                      16X
Material          191                      171
Other             191                      17X
Balance Sheet Statement
11.      As PR maintains its accounts on a Revenue and Expenditure Basis,
balance sheet statements of the normal commercial type are not prepared.
EroDortions of Flxed and Variable Costs
12.      For 1989/90, PR estimates the proportions of expenses for passenger
and freight service to be:
Attributable to
Passenger    Freight
Total Expenses    Services    ,Serviesu
1001               601          401
of which
Variable Costs      701
Fixed Costs         301
The passenger share of total expenses would decline due to reimbursement of
ordinary passenger service costs under PSO.
Public Service Obligations (PSO)
13.      PSO has been reflected as an income item for FY91-FY97.  Also for
FY85 to FY90, PSO has been reflected as reimbursable income in respective
years on the assumption that since GOP has now agreed to reimburse PR for
future years for PSO, then the same concept would have been equally valid for
prior years.
Source: PR/Transport Sector Mission, March 1990.



- 113 -
Annex 6. 1
Page 1 of 2
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJRCT
STAFF APPRxAISA REPOR
Selected Documets in the Project File
A.   Higha Documents
1.   Maintenance Backlog Reduction Programme, 4 volumes, Kampsax
International; for National Highways Board of Pakistan, February
1990.
2.   Maintenance Contractors Inventory, Kampsax; January 1990.
3.   The Maintenance Intervention System, NHB/Kampsax; November 1989.
4.   Organization and Management of the National Highways Board
USAID/FHWA; January 1990.
5.   Reorganization of the National Highways Board, Management Services
Division, Cabinet Secretariat, G.O.P.
6.    Standard Form of Management Contract 1987; Joint Contracts
Tribunal, UK.
7.   Management Contracts, Hegstad and Newport, World Bank TP65.
8.   Implementation of Construction Contracts by Management Contract -
- Dean, UK Crown Agents; March 1990.
9.   Policies and Procedures Manual NHB, de Leuw Cather International;
February 1990.
10.   A Bill to Establish a National Highway Authority (Draft) NHB; May
1989.
B.   Rail=  Documens
11.  Action Program for Pakistan Railways Restructuring, Canadian
Pacific Consulting Services Ltd.
12.  Pakistan Railways:  Is there a future? J.R. Ellis, British Rail;
April 20, 1988.
13.   Pakistan Railways: Action Plan for Improvement, PR; January 1990.



- 114 -                          6. 1
Page 2 of 2
14.   Pakistan Railways, Corporate Plan 1990/91-1996/97; April 1990.
15.   Performance of Railways and Recommendations for Making Railway an
Efficient and Viable Organization, Summary for Economic
Coordination Committee of the Cabinet, Chairman of Prime
Minister's Consultative Committee; April 1990.
a8=6. 1



PAItSTANI
TRAPO  SEtO  PRWECT
STF ASAIA  REPORT
- Wiltc Sector Trsport Empanditure Profits an  Revwe, 19687 jM
(fs. biltlion)
Current/Operatinu   Cah
It"o                         PUDP         Expmnditua        Roevs   Surplus    Depreciation   Intert   Profits
Rod Infrastructure
Federal                   821             135            10.000       9.865                      -       9.665
Provincial              1.200            1,000              890        -110           *                   -110
Local o..0                              . O               t...      3    Z           _             -     LIa
Total                2.821           1,45             12.58J      11.102                             11 10
Roal ays                     1584            4.85              4,711        -164        933         495      .1,S92
Ports                                                                                                                                                     U
Kwarachi                    3             723               751          28         97          71        -140
0oin (84/15)              200             13?               133           4         76          61        -161
P.C                              -           2.274             2.210        -64         130         427          62
Civil Aviation                 640             53S             1,087         5S2        200                     32
PIA                          1150            9,182            11t,162      1.980      1.200         S00         20
Sowenwunt l1uses (84/85)       110             900               550        -350          -           -         350
ILC (84/85)                  1.9 .50 7-0                                       -          -
Total                r,s27          20,661            33,941      13,080      2636        1. 574      6.8i
Source: Data Supptied by GOP.
N alst recent data for Port fasin. Gowrnent Bses ad ItC is 1984/05.
Octroi



PAKtISTAN
TIAN,M SET P9,E,CT^
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DORESTIC FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRAFFIC, 1971/72   198/88
1971/72                     19283                     198788                   Averoa  2 AX a Groth
Item           bf llLion     billion       btllton      billion      billion       billion       197tAM-19tu    *1987z8B
ton-ka       pPss-bk       ton-ba       pas-ba       ton-bs        puss-bk       Freight  Psus.  Freight  Pas.
Rail           7.8  (498)    9.5 (212)    7.s  (25)  16.5  (172)   7.8  (198)   17.0 (132)    0.0        3.7      0.1     0.1
Road           8.0  (512)   36.5 (7M8)   21.2  (702)  79.5  (822)   1.7 (772)  110.t (805)    9.0         7.2      8.4     6.8
Air             -   -        0.3  (02)     -    -       1.3 (12)                   2.2  (22)      -      13.3       -     14.9
Pipeline                    -.-  _:_      _              -   -      .  .7 ALN                                     _ - '    -  1.2
Total            l LM)    ILL=X)  i3  (ion              L  LM) L2  M1) 1I2L L )    LL                    6.7 ..4 S L.
Saw": D
Source: Data slwpliad by SOP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i



TAPRTSECTOR PROJEC
STAFF APPRAISAL RPORT
UNIT RENEWSES AND COSTS FOR RO MID RAIL 196l/86 AMD FOR AVITION M9JOUM9
Aveag              Costs                                                                 Effiiency Osir
It"            novenais Fer iUnt Co  Per Unit No              Traffic            Operating Costs         Lower Nodal Costs Schstitutlon
....... - (           Us... )ft.-............  (Sittion Unit KM)    -................(Rf. biltin) .............
1. Ieoe
Road               0.12             0.12                  97.4                  11.7                        1.2 j/
Epxres           0.10             0.09 (0.06) 1/        14.3                   1.3                        0.6 J  
Ordinway         g                I&                     -LA ''                         LIS .
Total           0.09             0.17                  16.8                                             2.9
Aviation (1968/9)
Primry           1.11             1.04                   1.5                   1.6                        -
secodwary        1.14             1.3?                   0.?                  1.0                        0.1
Feede            fLQ                                                         .jJ Li_U                                 - 
Total           1.10             1.21                   2.4                  2.9                        0.1          -
2. Iroahit
Private          0.40 (0.20)      0.40                  25.6                 10.2                         1.5 Z/
SLC              0.60 (0.20)  O/ 0.60                    1.3                  0.0                        0.3 yI
Roil               0.29             0.27tO.22, 0.15)v    JU                    .LL _2 2                                 Li IV
27.                  4.6                         1.6
Soewee: Onts supplied by GOP and agene1es.
I/      Cost for a long distance 20 coach train.
3t      Rates chaged from PunJab to Karachi Wmere there are epty bechhauls.
IV      Costs per ton km decline as distance increases since fxed teMnal and other eosts are spread over greater  taboer of kitefoters.
fs. 0.27 Is systeinude aver  ge  Rs. 0.22 Is Karachi-Lahore  ost, and fs. 0.15 is cost for unit train renamng from siding to siding.
&/ Wet reduction In vehicle oper ating costs from better maintained roats.
1/     Reduction in costs from (I) reduction In surplus staff (Rs. 0.2 billion) and tl1) ruming all trains with 20 coaches (Rs 0.4
billion).
y       Net redaction by replacing ordinwry trains by buses.
3/     Reduction In vehicle operating costs frn  better maintained roads (Rs. 1.0 billion) and from introduction of lerger trucks for long
distance haulage (Rs. 0.5 billion).
IV      Savins from  Inrerasing NLC efficincy to that of private sector.
P/      Savings from ruaming all freight as unit trains.
lY      Net sawings from switching 2  iltlion tons of freight from rood to rait.



Table 2. 1
- 118 -
TRANSPORT SECTOR PRECT
STAFF AP SAL REPOT
TRAISPORT SECTOR PSOPS AND FINANCIES fOS N PLAN (FT88-923
Re. tlltfmn 1987/88 prices
Orighls    RVisod             Self          GOP       Omtic       Foreign    Forign
lorromrig    Aid      Commercial
Borrowing
MIII                19,387         20.077            -5s,79                            5.410 v,      8,80Q
Speciat
Aroa               2.07           1,952                         1,952I
Provincfitl          s,7o4          r.um                          6,08-                1408
Railwoa                  9,000          8,485                         4,485                4.000
P orte
EPT                  1,3t0          2,900 V          1.331                             1.569
PM           -                        704                           404                  3
Other                  500            500                           200                  3m0
PISC * NTC               2.357          2,357                                      682                   1,84U
CAA 1                    4,500          4,337            2,837                               Soo         1.000
PIA  1,010                 92             110                                                              900
Provincial
susm                 2-41s          2. 27                                      330       -           -
Totat            49,071         52,229            4,978  .   18,925         982   15,134         12,548
Scouwe: Data supplied by GOP
1/ OtSC  finmiceng of am3 of 555 apenditures of Rf. 4300 diliton, Bank financin of 512 of M5 of Re. 4000 millton.
3/KPT reviesd plan fgwure of ft. 1263 itllfon is being revised to include ank msisted nextrnization projet. Also
excluded is ft. 675 sillion for Jiman Brdge Phse It.
I/CAA ehe requested * tlarg   plan of Rs. 7 billion to be finauned by RI. 3 billion froi internally gewsrated funds, Rs. 2
billfon fro  foeign tm   wd asietance mld Rf. 2 billion fro locl catwrrey borrowirn.



PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR I roject
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGHWAY COMPONENT COST TABLE
------- 1990/91-.......     --1-----1991/92 ------    .-..... 1992/93 - -            ---------Totat---------
Project Item                 Local   Foreign   Total    Local   foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
...............................''''''''......'---------.------.-----.-- Rs million.-----.----.-----------------------------------------
A. PROJECT COSTS
........ ...........  
Costs in 1989/90 prices
MBRP- roads                   150.0    150.0    300.0    250.0    250.0    500.0    250.0    250.0    500.0    6S0.0    650.0   1300.0
NBRP- structures               22.5     22.5      45.0     37.5      37.5     75.0      37.5     37.5      75.0     97.5      97.5    195.0
Resurfacing/Strengthening    80.0    120.0    200.0    120.0    180.0    300.0    160.0    240.0    400.0    360.0    540.0    900.0
Technical Assistance
8 Training                  39.2      25.7     64.9      38.9      25.3     64.2      35.9     12.0      47.9    114.0      63.0    177.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... ......... .......                        .      . .......... ----    ------.........  ...... .
Suktotal                   291.7    318.2    609.9    446.4    492.8    939.2    483.4    539.5   1022.9   1221.5   1350.5   2572.0
Price Contingencies
NBRP- roads                   10.2       7.4      17.6     33.0     2S.0      58.0     SO.0      47.S     97.S      93.2     79.9    173.1
MBRP- structures               1.5       1.1       2.6      5.0       3.8      8.7       7.5      7.1      14.6     14.0      12.0     26.0
Resurfacing/Strengthening      S.4       5.9      11.3     15.8      18.0     33.8     32.0      45.6      77.6     53.3     69.5    122.8
Technical Assistance
& Training                   2.7       1.3      3.9       5.1       2.5      7.7       7.2      2.3       9.S     15.0      6.1      21.0
.....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....       ......    .....   ...... .......   ......
Subtotal                    19.8      15.6     35.4      58.9     49.3    108.2      96.7    102.5    199.2    175.4    167.4    342.8
Costs including Conting.
NUAP- roads                  160.2    157.4    317.6    283.0    275.0    558.0    300.0    297.S    597.S    743.2    729.9   1473.1
NBRP- structures              24.0      23.6     47.6      42.5     41.3      83.7     45.0      44.6     89.6    111.5    109.5    221.0
Resurfacing/Strengthening    85.4    125.9    211.3    135.8    198.0    333.8    192.0    285.6    477.6    413.3    609.5   1022.8
Technicat Assistance
&  raining                  41.9      27.0     68.8      44.0     27.9      71.9     43.1      14.3     S7.4    129.0      69.1    198.0
.....         .....  .    .....  . .. ..  .. ...    -----.... ....  . . ..... ..... .   ...
Advisors                         -     13.6    13.6           -     20.0    20.0          -      20.0     20.0         -    53.6       53.6
TOTAL COSTS                 311.5     347.4      658.9      505.3    562.1   1067.4   580.1       662.0   1242.1   1396.9   1571.1   2968.4                P  '
O U)
eli:



B. FINANING PLAN 1
GOP     Banit    Total     GOP     Bant    Total    GOP    Bant    Total    GOP           Bak      Total
NMRP                        109.6    255.6   365.2    192.5    449.2    641.7   206.1    48.0    687.1    508.2   1185.8   1694.0
Resurfacing/Strengthening    84.5    126.8    211.3   200.3    133.5    333.8    382.1       95.S   477.6    666.9    35S.8   1022.8
Technical Assistance
& Training                 41.9     27.0    68.8       44.0     27.9     71.9    43.1       14.3    S7.4    129.0    69.1    198.0
... ... .. .... .. .... .... ......... ..... ......... ..... ........ ..... us.... ... ...t.... ............. ...... ........... ...... ........... ......
TOTAL                       236.0    409.4    645.3    436.8    610.6   1047.4   631.3    590.8   1222.1  1304.1   1610.7  2914.8
. ~~~~Z-----*USS million-.*-- --
0P      Bank     Total  IOP         ait      Total     SW      Bank     Totat      oP     Bank     Total
NMRP                          5.1      11.9    1.0       9.0     20.9     29.8      9.6     *2.4      32.0     33.6      5.2     76.8
ResurtfacingiStrengthfning    3.9       5.9      9.8      9.3      6.2     15.S    17.8       4.4      22.2     31.0    16.6    47.6
Technical Assistance
& Training                  1.9       1.3      3.2      2.0      1.3      3.3      2.0      0.7       2.7      6.0      3.2      9.2
TOTAL                        11.0    19.0       30.0     20.3     28.4    48.7    29.4       27.S    56.0    60.?        74.9   135.6
........... ...................... _... .....
Oetails of T.A.,Trainfng and Supervision costs 1/
Reorgnisation of m
Tech. Assistmce 4a          1.3      S.1      6.4       1.3      S.1      6.4      0.0      0.0      0.0       2.6     10.2     12.8
Equipment nd sqplies        2.0      2.0       4.0      1.7      1.7      3.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      3.7      3.7      7.3
Training                                                                             0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
ohems vswits                0.0       1.1      1.1      0.0      1.1      1.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      2.2      2.2
fellowships                 0.0      5.S      5.5       0.0      5.5      S.S      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     11.0     11.0
SWpervision of RSPANERP      12.0     12.0      24.0    12.0      12.0     24.0     12.0     12.0    24.0    3S.9        35.9     71.9
MNS operating expenses       24.0      0.0      24.0    24.0       0.0     24.0     24.0      0.0     24.0      71.9      0.0     71.9
.........................................................................................................................................Xt*^***s** - v^^*oo*s*
Base Cost      TOTALS        39.2     25.7    64.9       38.9     25.3     64.2     3S.9     12.0    47.9    114.0       63.0    177.o
NOTES
1.Intlation Iates:Local 6.8,6.0,6.0
Forefun 4.9,4.9,4.9
2.tate of Exchange 21.5
3. Includes physical contingencies
1I/   This excludes  the expenditures  for advisors.
_                                                                                                                    o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w



RAILCOS                                                                 PAKISTA
04; 26/9
T SPORT BECTOS POJECT
STAFF APPEtSAL REFRT
COST Of RtLUAY IUVESTMTS
(in Jlamry 1990 Prices)
TOTAL          it          TOTAL
1990191         2         199192M                    1M2/93          1        Rs. million      2:        US1 NIillien
.-: _,-     - -.. .        .        . .                    ,     _-__----__-_-_.-.-__- __ __
F.E.    L.C.    TOTAL 1  F.E.    L.C.    TOTAL    F.E.    L.C.    TOTAL I  F.E.    L.C.    TOTAL ::  F.E.    L.C.    TOTAL
---- - -- -----                                                                          ---- - --- ! --------------------.-----
INSTITUTIONAL OEV.           36.6     6.7    43.3 :   44.2    11.3    55.5:    7.0    40.6    47.6          97.8    59.6   146.4 it    4.1       2.7     6.8
lecthical Assistane        20.4     2.2    22.6 :   16.9       6.5    23.3 :    2.2    14.2    16.4 2   39.4    22.9    62.3 2:    1.8         1.1      2.9
Training                    9.7      4.5    14.2:   18.8       4.8    23.6 S    4.8    19.9    24.72   33.3    29.2    62.5 2:    1.5          1.4      2.9
Coputers                    6.5       0      6.5 1    8.6        0     9.6               6.5      6.5     15.1      6,5    21.6 i2    0.7      0.3      1.0
I                                                                              I t 22
STUDIES                       6.5     0.0      6.5 t    2.2      0.0     2.2       2.2     0.0      2.2 1   10.9     0.0    10.9 ::    0.5       0.0     0.5
ROULER SEARtNGS             150.0   100.0   250.0  222.0   14.0   370.0           90.0    60.0   150.0 :  462.0   308.0  170.0 22   21.5    14.3    35.8
(10,000 wagus)                                                               I                         I
SISAL. a COUIC.              17.2    13.0    30.2 1   34.4    26.0       0.4 1   34.4    26.0    60.4       U 96.0    65.0   151.0     4.0      3.0      7.0
NIS                           6.4      1.6     0.0 2   24.0      6.0    30.0 I   89.6    22.4   112.0 2  120.0    30.0   150.0 22    5.6         1.4     7.0  -
LOCOIOTIVES SPARES          347.3   204.8   552.1 2  ?50.1   380.6  1130.72    52.0    36.0    09.0:  11.4   621.4  mo.9 1:   53.5    28.9    92.4
46 LoKos Recoe.            11.8    15.0    26.9 0    223.3   100.0   323.3 1                             235.1   115.0   350.1 :2   10.9       5.3    16.3
Unit Exchuage             19.1    99.9   29.0:2 299.7   133.3   432.0 2                               2  497.3   222.2   720.0 ':   23.2    10.3    33.5
Traction Hoars             93.4    74.9   16.3 :  165.1   121.3   306.4         52.0    36.0   68.0 S  330.5   232.2   562.7 :2   15.4    10.8    26.2
Haint. Equlpumnt           43.0    26.0    69.0 :   43.0    26.0    69.0                              2   66.0    52.0   138.0 :2    4.0       2.4     6.4
1                                                                              : Is:
SUB-T 0 T A L            564.0   326.1   990.1 2 1076.9   571.9  1646.0 2  275.2   185.0   460.2 1 1916.1  109.0  2999.1 1:   89.1    50.4   139.5
COlTINEICIES                                                                 I                          2 ::
Physical I57)              28.2    16.3    44.5 1   53.8    28.6    92.4 I   13.9        9.3    23.0      95.9    54.2   150.0 22    4.5       2.5     7.0    o
Price                      27.6    22.2    49.9 1  100.1    75.5   163.7 :   42.5    37.0    79.5:  173.2   134.7   312.9 ::    9.3            6.3    14.6
T    A T A L                619.9   364.6   964.4 2 1238.9   676.0  1914.9 1  331.4   231.3   562.7: 2190.1  1271.9  342.0 22  101.9    59.2   161.0    w
flu::s:s:   -z:sc:::::....:  .: -s:5ss55s   u::_ =s ::uussz:uususus.us5.:5s:__ __ uuu                       :5un suussu z        5=5s:=5szsus=5-s 
NOTE: Rate of Ecbancge  I 019         21.5
Physical Contingenciess 2        5.01
Price Cantingencies: F.E.=       4.9n
L.C.:-       6.89  in 199091
6.01 in 1991/92
6.02 in 1992/93



- 122 -
Tb)& 3. 3
MAXSTAN
TRANPCRT ESCTOR PROJECT
I=   APPRAMLW REPR
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements S
IBRD Fiscal Year & Calendar Year               Cumulative Disbursements at
Seeseter Endinj                  _E. nd of Quater
£Z22I             December 1990                     0.0              0
June 1991             7.4        3.6              4
eY2               December 1991        16.5        10.8              9
June 1992            33.1       21.6             18
FY93              December 1992        53.4        37.8             29
June 1993            71.8       55.8             39
FT94              December 1993        92.0        75.6             50
June 1994          -106.7       90.0             58
December 1995      127.0       108.0             69
June 1995           149.0      129.6             81
December 1995      167.4       145.8             91
June 1996           184.0      162.0            100
The project is expected to be completed by December 1995 and the loan to be
closed in June 1996.
1/    Based on a shortened Pakistan Transportation Disbursement Profile of
April 1990.
Source: Mission Estimates.
T"0022



- 123 -
P=STA^N
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Rupees per 1,000 km)
...............................................................................
CARS      JEEPS    SMIALL     LARGE     2 ALE    3 AXLE       ART.
BUS       BUS       TRUCK      TRUCK    TRUCK
Roughness
(am/km)     voc       voc       vOC        vOC       VOC       vOC        VOC
1500     2,592     1,764      2,832     3,586     2,488      3,372     4,898
2000     2,636     1,832      2,856     3,732     2,603      3.487     5,022
2500     2,686     1,887      2,882     3,879     2,717      3,603     5,151
3000     2,740     1,958      2,909     4,030     2,831      3,719     5,284
3500     2,800     2,036      2,938     4,184     2,945      3,837     5,422
4000     2,856     2,107      2,964     4,316     3,042      3,936     5,542
5000     3,012     2,304      3,034     4,648     3,278      4,179     5,849
6000     3,190     2,524      3,112     4,971     3,501      4,410     6,133
7000     3,407     2,789      3,202     5,315     3,732      4,650     6,474
8000     3,645     3,075      3,297     5,643     3,948      4,874     6,779
9000     3,925     3,406      3,414     6,020     4,193      5,127     7,127
10000     4,188     3,711      3,533     6,376     4,421      5,361     7,454
11000     4,457     4,018      3,662     6,743     4,654      5,600     7,788
12000     4,760     4,360      3,816     7,157     4,916      5,868     8,162
14000     5,322     4,986      4,124     7,932     5,404      6,365     8,859
Source: Kampsax, Maintenance Backing Reduction Program: Economic Analysis and
Prioritization Study.
February 1990.



- 124 -                       Tablg 4.2
TRANSPORT SECTOR PRO4ECT
Summary of Highway Unit 8conoaic Costs
(Rs ner mg. m. of drivint surface)
Type of                     Category of Paveuent Condltion b/
Highway a/            1          2          3          4          5
1              n.a. Cl    256          336        SO0        780
2               n.a.        184        260        428        612
3               n.a.        164        224        388        496
a/ Refer Annex 3.2
b/ Refer Annex 3.1
c/ No work being done under the project on thls category.
Source: Kampsax, Malntenance Backing Reduction Program: Economic Analysis and
Prioritization Studg.
February 1990.



- 125 -
Table 4.3
PAZISTAN
TRAISORT SECTOR PRWECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECOINIC EVALUATIN OF RODO CD1IP11ENT: ElAIIPLE OF SONYARY RESULTS
Ra&d Sectioon  NM5 km17.0 - k.45.1         Year   Cost Saving  in    Net
(not continuous)                              VOC    Benefits
- ---Ri                      ----
0     5449              5449
Existion  Rougmnss (/aJ1)s  9500              1               3035     3035
R-ughness aftef luprovwnt: 2000               2                2826     2826
3               2727     2727
Initial traffic:                              4               2632     2632
Cars             1501                      5               2538      '538
Jeeps             270                      6               2449       449
Small bu             550                      7               2365      '365
Large bus            449                      8               2280       280
2 axle trucks       1327                      9               2200      2200
3 axle trucks         17                     10   -2266       2125      4391
Artic. trucks         51
Rate of Return           512
Annual growth rate:   102
Source: Kaipsax,  aintenance Backlog Reduction Program: Econoeic Anal1sis
and Prioritlxation Study, Feb 1990



- 126 -
05/14190
PAKISTAN                                     Table 4.4
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECONONIC ANALYSIS OF ROLLER BEARINS INSTALLATION ON FREIGHT MASONS
Broad qoage wagns in assets           35,600
Condnned                               5,000
Magons actually in seice              30,600
Total freight moved in 1989190         8,364 eillion tib
Freight soved per vagon              273,333
Ro1ler bearing program for 15,000 vagons which can move            409.5 eillion tk.
unit              Annual Benefits
saving/tim         in Nillion Rs
Assuing 10 I increase in productivity             0.2 Rs           81. 
Assuming 15 I increase in productivity            0.2             122.85
ECONIC RETURN
Costs    Benefits  NET
250.0            -250.0
250.0     61.4  -188.6
122.9    122.9
122.9    122. 
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9   122.q
122.9   122. 
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9   122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
122.9    122.9
24?
Source: Staff Estimates



- 127 -
05/14/90
Table 4.5
PAKISTAM-
TRANSPWRT SECTOR PRWJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECONONIC EVALUATION OF RAILVAY TELECONMUNICATIONS
Year ending      Capital Operating  TOTAL BENEFITS   NET
June           Costs   Costs   COSTS            }ITEFltS
199l            16.4             16.4            -16.4
1m 28.4                          98.4            -99.4
1993            47.4      6.0    53.4    30.0   -23.4
n                         8.3     8.3    48.2    39.9
195                       8.3     8.3    48.2    39.9
99b                       8.3     9.3   40.2    39.9
1997                      8.3     8.3    48.2    39.9
1m                        8.3     8.3    49.2    39.9
m                         8.3     8.3    48.2    39.9
2000             6.0    10.0    16.0    55.0    39.0
2001                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2002                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2003                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2004                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2005                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2006                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2007                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2008                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2009                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
2010                     10.0    10.0    55.0    45.0
Rate of Return                232
Source: Staff Estiuatus



- 128 -
Table 4.6
PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUOIC EVALUATION  F RAMLVAY NIS
(Rs million)
Year ending    Costs           enetits            Net Enetfits
June
1M1         8.2                0.0               -8.2
1992        32.8                0.0              -32.8
1993        92.4               17.5              -74.9
194         24.6               49.4               24.8
1995         9.9               46.4               36.5
199          9.9               34.4               24.5
199          9.9               34.4               24.5
1998         9.9               34.4               24.5
199          9.9               34.4               24.5
2000         9.9               34.4               24.5
2001         9.9               34.4               24.5
2002         9.9               34.4               24.5
2003         9.9               34.4               24.5
2004         9.9               34.4               24.5
2005         9.9               34.4               24.5
Rate of Return                              182
Notet    Benefits have been calculated as follows.  A 7.5Z
-        increase in wagon utilization mould enable PR to scrap
.075 s 30,600 wagons a 2,295 x Rs 20,000 - Rs 46 million
phased over the three years starting 1993.  In addition,
there would be recurring annual savings of naintenance
costs of Re 15,O0 per wagon, totalling Rs 34.4 million.
Source: Staff Estimates



- 129 -
PAEI9TAI                                              Table 4.7
iRiIUPU  mmdi  PROECT 
TF APPRAISAL  RERT
EUNIC lI LYSIS U  LOCWIVE SPVRES coW
"091             91192    92193    93194   94195    1959      9697
Loco Filt lithut Proct
Aailable lam                        in2
Freigt                     156       432
Passengers Lo              11t i     2
Pas  Oth.                  I0
Sintin                     92        252
Totl                      44?       10      429       409     389      369       349     329
Locos in Flat                564               564      54 564                564           64
Availability                  m 971                      732     492      652      622      58
Laco Flat with Project
Available loeu               447               447      447      427     407       37      367
rouissimued                                     17       33       28      23        19      16
Total                       447               464       480     45       40       406      383
Availability                  m                82       851      812t     7        722      62
et Locoab                         0                35       71       66       63       57      54
Freight                                       15       30      28       Sb       24       23
Pasngrs                                       11       23       21       2s       15      18
Sntin"                                         9       18       17       15       14      14
Loco Productivity in tke md pi (oillion)
Freight            a                        69       13S      1262    1167      109      1033
Passnge           150                       1702     3453    3210     2967     2772    2626
Cast savinp  tru  ue  transort (in ks/tk or ph)
Frigt           0.20                         134     272      252      233      218      207
Pasngrs          0.06                        102      207      193      178      166      158
Total                                       236      479      445      411      384      34
Rate ot Rohn Culcilatio
Costs                                750      347       52
Boits                                         236      479      445      411      384      34
Not                                  -750    -111       427     445      411      384      364
IRR           27
NOTE: Lao ProU     vity is bas  on 1989 prrsar ce and loco availability as falloas
Freights I billie  tka/1?9 lcs a          45 sillian tki
Pass.$  to billion p     9 locas a         s0 ilion pkc
Assuptinn is that a tionl available locos will run on cin line
for passnr  WrvCe Od prdce  150 million ph p.a.
Sources Staff Estinte



Table 5.1
- 130 -
PAKISTAN
TRANRT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPIAL RET
Statemut of Pakistan Rtf s la"Rev~  ad eapenditure: 1984/85-1989/90
(Figiwes In Current Rs Miltion)
Year Sndira Juim 30
.A----lctual. .
1984/85   1985/86   1986/a8   1987/U    19w8/89    198/"
(Proy.)*
OPERATING REVUES
Passeners              1,425.4   1,561.6   1,586.2   1,746.S    1,860.6    1,925.0
other Coaching           167.9    211.6    250.3    239.4        257.9      285.0
Goods                  1,972.7   2,494.2   2,794.0   3,350.5    3,109.2    3,325.0
"dry                     111.9      92.7      39.9     160.0      90.7       95.0
TOTAL OPERTING REVNES      3,6?7.9   4,360.1   4,670.4   5,496.4    5,318.4    5,630.0
UmIv  EXPSES                  ,.
Labour                 1,912.6   2,021.0   2,326.S   2,705.8    2,815.0    3,072.?
Fuels                  1,098.5   1,106.5    937.0    977.9       952.7    1,001.0
Materiatl                815.1     822.9    823.8    960.0    1,125.3    1,087.4
Other                    50$.8    565.6    768.0    765.7    1,146.5    1,019.7
TOTAL IRIG EXPENS          4,332.0   4,5t16.0   4,855.3   5,409.4    6,039.5    6,180.8
APPROPRIATION TO ORF         630.6    845.5    84S.5    845.5        993.4      993.4
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENE     4.962.6   5,361.5   5,700.8   6,254.9    7,032.9    7,174.2
NET CETING REV.(LOSS)    (1.284.7) (1,001.4) (1,030.4) C 758.5)  (1,714.5)  (1,544.2)
INTEREST ON LOANS           230.4    258.9    495.2    438.8         939.5      552.6
APPROIATION TO IF            78.4      85.9      87.2      96.1      102.3      105.9
NET REVENU  (LOSS)        (1,602.5) (1,346.2) (1,612.8) (1,293.4)  (2,756.3)  (2,202.7)
PASSENGER Kls (MILLION)   17,806.5  16,849.6  16,919.8  18,541.5   19,731.7   20,478.7
TONE KM. (MILLION)         7,262.9   8,269.8   7,819.8   8,03.2    8,363.9    8,938.2
REV. PER PASS.KN(PAISA)       8.0       9.3       9.4       9.4        9.4        9.4
REV. PER TONE KN(PAISA)      27.4      30.2      35.7      41.7       37.2       37.2
OPERATING RATIO              134.9    123.0    122.1      113.8      132.2      127.4
*Provisf nal wti I approved by the Goverment.
"-ased on 9 months actuat operating reults.
Figures nmy ot add due to rounding.
Source: Pakistan Rfitways,'llarch 1990.
note: Thts Table prepared by PR doe not mnctud. Pbtic Service Obigations (MSO)
reibarseuent from OW as a reve_   item. In th text (pWra. 5.13),
ats1tion an PMO refhursmnt has been ma  by the Mission and it is sham
as a rene  item for th period 1984/85 to 1989/90.



- 131                          Table 5.2
PAKITAN
TRANS  SECTM  P    ?
STAFF APPRAISAL Dt
Forecats of PAklstn Sa   s Eltma. uI Upuitur2  1990/91-1996/97
(FIPg. In turren I3 MiItO)
Year Ending Am 30
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .............  Forsew                            ..c............................--
199Q0.91  t99/92  1999   199I%   199195  1995/   199"69
OP£1UTIN6 REWN
POSUUSS               2,181.0  2,471.1  2,719   3,172.1  3,94.0  4,02.0  4,613.6
Otber CoachIng          319.8   358.8   402.6   451.7    5.A   56.6   63.0
Goods                 3,73.7  4,U15.8  4,742.5  5,373.3  6,087.9  6.896  7,815.0
SWcy                     97.8   100.8   103.?    106.9   110.1   113.4   116.8
P50 - Reib. frm SOP    1,281".   1,24S.9  1,323.1  1,405.9  1,480.2  t,543.8  1,595.7
OTAL OPERATING REYIESlU    7,611.1  8,362.4  9,373.? 10,509.9 11,719.0 13,195.4 14,7m9.1
NMING EAPENSES
Lebor                 3.38.8  3,520.1  3,767.5  4,62.3  4,315.6  4,618.7  4,943.1
Fuets                 1,071.0  1,146.0  1,226.2  1,312.1  1,403.9  1,502.2  1,607.3
Mbterials             1,163.6  1,245.1  1,332.2  1,425.5  1,M5.3  1,632.0  1,746.3
other                 1,09.    1,167.4  1,249.1  1,336.6  1,430.1  1.530.2  1,67.3
TOTAL WKING EXPENSES    6.614.S  7,078.5  7,575.1  8,106.4  8,674.9  9,28.1  9,934.0
APPROPRIATION TO DIF    1,028.8  1,165.8  1,306.S  1,445.2  1,402.2  1,762.7  1,922.S
TAL OPUATIt  EXPENSES   7,643.2  8,244.3  8,1.6  9,551.5 10,27.0 11,045.8 11,856.5
NET OPERATING EV.CLUS)    32.1   118.1   492.1   95.3  1,501.9  2,149.6  2,922.6
INTEEST aN LQS           534.5   S64.7   668.1    73.9   897.9  1,005.6  1,115.6
APPRPIATION TO IF         1200    13S.9   154.0   174.5   197.7   224.0   2S3.7
NET REV. (LOSS)        C 666.7) C S22.6)  320.0)    -       406.4   920.0  1,SS3.3
Diidend/                                             -      406.4b/  920.0 1,S53.3
Net Surp*u/CfIcIt)     C 6W.7  C 52.5) C 320.0)
PASUIER KN (ILLION)   21,093.1 21,7ZS.9 22,377.6 2,049.0 23,740.4 24,452.6 25,186.2
Tom Ue (OMILLION)       9,117.0  9,299.3  9,S7.3  9,85.6 10,161.6 10,4"6.4 10,720.4
REV.PER PASS  (PAIA)       10.3    11.4    12.5    1.6       1.1    16.7    18.3
REV. PER TE    (PAISA)    40.9    4S.0    49.5   54.5        59.9    45.9    72.5
OPERATING RATIO           100.0    98.5    94.7   90.1       87.2    63.7    80.2
a/    Dividmd pbte bt PR onty mn It genert a aurptus;
rat 6.25X of Cait-at-Char  Accomt.
bl    Partiat dividmn pmymsit or COP wld atm PR to retain
ft& for Crp1tal Dewl_pnt EInpediture.
Figur  my not ad due to roAli,u.
suce:s PitTrwwrt sector Project Nissien, N.ab 1990.



- 132 -
Table 5.3
T3*NT ECTOR PSJECt
STAFF APPIUANL hPCOT
Forecats of Pakstan t.1lims Sourc eNd Aptlicatfon of Fw*:s 1990/91 - 1996/9
(Figrs fn Current fs Millon)
wr EndiW   am 30
............................ fram    ................. ..............
Total
1990/91 to
1990/91  1991/92  1992931 199     199495  1995/6  1996/97         1996/97
SOURCES OF FUND
Net Operating Revemie (Loss)   C 32.1)   116.1   492.1   958.3  1,501.9  2,149.6  2,922.6       8,110.5
Appropriation to DRF           1,028.8  1,165.8  1,30.5  1,445.2  1,602.2  1,762.7  1,922.5    10,233.7
Total Sources                    906.7  1,283.9  1,796.6  2,4035  3,104.1  3,912.3  4,845.1    18,344.2
Dividend                                       -                    406.4   920.0  1,S53.2      2,879.6
Ralitys Cash Generation          996.7  1,26.9  1,796.6  2,403.5  3,510.5  4,832.3  6,398.3    21,223.8
Foreign Exchange Govt.
for Additfons                284.0   316.0   270.0   196.0   129.0    24.0    24.0          1,245.0
For Replacements              666.0   816.0    67T.0   625.0   151.0   884.0   571.0        5,482.0
Local Currency Govt.
For AddItions                161.0   172.0   140.0   209.0   161.0         6.0      6.0       855.0
For Replaceents              480.4   407.3       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       887.4
TOTAL SOURCES           2,788.1  2,999.2  2,175.6  3,433.5  4,651.5  5,746.3  6,999.3    29,693.2
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Debt Service
Interest                     534.5   564.7   458.1   783.9   897.9  1,005.6  1,115.6        5,560.3
Repaymmnt                    375.8   315.8   375.8   375.8   375.6   375.8   375.8          2,630.6
Investment en Additions          44.0   490.0   410.0   405.0   290.0    30.0    30.0           2,100.0
Investment en ReplaceEents     1,80.0  1,500.0  1,360.0  1,750.0  1,790.0  1,840.0  1,315.0    11,135.0
Expenditure on loprovemonts      120.0    15.9   154.0   174.5   197.7   224.0   253.7          1,259.4
Dividend                          -        -       *        -       406.4   920.0  1,553.2      2,879.6
TOTAL APLICATIONS       3,W55.t 3,066.4  2,9S7.9  3,489.2  3,957.8  4,395.4  4,643.3    25,564.9
thange fn Wcrkfng Capital t      267.1) C  67.2)    8 62.3)   144.3   693.7  1,350.9  2,356.0   4,128.3
TOTAL                   2,788.1  2,999.2  2,675.6  3,453.5  4,651.5  5,746.3  6,999.3    29,693.2
Figures may not add due to rounding.
Source: PR/Transport sector Project Mission, Marb 1990.



PAIaSTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
National Highways Board
Proposed Headquarters Organization
IDiretorC Geea
tegal Counsel
Audit
Administration.
Personnel St
Training
planning, Design &       Construction          Maintenance
Aid Coordination    ll                    l
& Aid    Dein&       CUt.       Constr.      Mi. Program
Coordi-   Coufrac     Oper.    Support       Opet.   & Contro
Md                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Account
I Coordin.l                                                       r  I e



PAKISTAN
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
National Highways Board
Proposed Regional Organization
rHead Office
F   I   ........  I 1 L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .   . .. . . . .. .     .. . . . .. ... .   . . . .
Regional                          Regional                                                       3 Other Regions
Maintenance                       Construction                     Financial                             .. . _  . .
Engineer                          Engineer                          Audit
Financial        Audit
Magintenanc                     Engineers and               Payments            Unit
Engineers            ~~~Consultants' StaLff            Ui
The Regional Maintenance and Construction Engineers, and Financial Staff
report-to their respective Chiefs at Head Office.
(0



- 135 -
STAFF APPVAISAL R
TR^"SPOR SEC1C LOUh
Pronosed CrcECdxatitn
N Tinister  of  Railaays                               d
and Aduinisration, Fedral Govermat Inspectorof Railways
hid lory  ocl
df6nistry of Chairmana
I
Rtailuay BoardY
(liay operationl           Nanufacturinn Units            Property Srary nt               Overse as
(PR)                                                        Unit                Ccnsuttancy and
Fa  I    I                    I     I                          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Construction Unit
1/The Ministry of Railways witt be coopcsed of Secretary of Raitvays (Railway Officer), Additioal
Secrtetry Finnerie. Additioalt Secrtetries Teehnieat (Raitmay Officers, Joint Secrtetry 0rsanizaticn
and Administration, Federal. covernment Inspector of Raitvays.
The Raitway Board witt consist of 6 membeis: thafrman (Secretary of R ltways, Member Finac
(Additfcnal Secretary Fifance), Members Teehnicat (Additionat Secrtetry Technicat), Representive of
Planning Division, 2 independent members nominated by GSP. Secretary of Railway Board would be the
Joint Secretary Organization and Adainistration. The Chief ExcuAtives of the different functional
units will attend Board meetings monthly when their units are being reviewed and evaluated.



- 136 -
CAIRT 4
X            II
ii'~~~'
tmIfI
W ~~~~



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16248R1
* w  ! 7t  U. S. S.R. >
i    >     _9_ CHINA
PAKISTAN
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
O    CITIES AND TOWNS
-     NATIONAL ROADS
PRtAAPRY AND SECONDARY ROADS                                            ,.,
RAILWAYS                                                                     ....    .........
+    AIRPORTS                                       <-                              . i*      C,d,e.
-    -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                                                                             c.   SHMIR
32~~~~~~~~~~- w ..    ....' 3r-
AFGHANISTAN                               |
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDIA
28               (                                                                                                          2e-
ISLAMIC       I
REPUBLIC OF L                                                           ,.
IRAN        J                                                                                too     20,0    300     400
3    .           l      /It N  D   <                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItLOMIETERS
._4w ti  Sda    \    t \            * \              0     50   I0o   350   200   250
24'                                                                                                 m VW ~ do Oad  -W an lfftW thd  
A Arobint)   Sea                        ._                                                   9 _stIfa*
-ofwo.'U.'9   Of8
MARCH 1987



