FILE COPY
Report No. 532a-PA
Paraguay:
Appraisal of a
Fourth Highway Project
,November 25, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Pepartment
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Oank for Reconstruction and Development
International Developrent Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                       = Guarani ()
US$1.00                             = 126t
ML                                  = US$0.008
Vl,000,000                         = US$7,936.50
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric
1 meter (m)                      -=  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)          = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                = 0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acrortvms
ADT        -      Average Daily Traffic
ANNP       -      Administracion Nacional de Navegacion y Puertos
DGV        -      Direccion General de Vialidad
IDB        -      Inter-American Development Bank
JV         -      Juntas Viales (Local Councils)
MOPC       -      Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones
OCIPT      -      Office of Coordination and Integral Planning of Transport
PCAL       -      Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez (railway)
SAE        -      Sociedad Argentina de Estudios (consultants, Argentina)
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -      United States Agency for International Development



PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWJAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................             ................... i - iii
1.   INTRODUCTION  .............................  .................          1
2.    BACKGROUND .....         ......................................   2
A.    General ......         ...................................   2
B.    The Transport Sector  .................                          2
C.    Transport Policy and Coordination  ..........    O..*.   5
3*   HIGHWAYS  ........................................ .                    6
A.   The Highway Network  ..........            ....................   6
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic  ......   7
C.    Highway Planning and Financing  ................           .    8
D.   Highway Administration  .................... .         .....    9
E.   Highway Engineering ......            .......................  10
F.    Highway Construction ......           ......................  10
G.   Highway Maintenance                 .......................... .   11
4.    THE PROJECT          ..........................................  13
A.    General Description  ......          .......................  13
B.    Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement  ......  15
C.    Execution           .......................................  17
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .......          ....................... ..  18
A.    General         .........................................  18
B.   Description of the Roads and the
Areas They Serve                 ...... *..........18
C.   Traffic          ........................................   19
D.    Benefits from the Project .....            ..................  20
E.    Economic Evaluation ........            ...........  .........  21
F.    Other Project Elements  ...... ............. .                  1
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ...............  21
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Paraud (Engineer) and
R. Rafloski, A. Soto and Miss I.W. Pastor (Economists), assisted by Mr. George
Aithnard (Economist) of the African Development Bank; it has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.



TABLES
1.   PCAL Railway - Freight and Passenger Traffic - 1950-1973
2.   Development of the Highway Network - 1950-1973
3.   Vehicle Registration in the Country - 1970
4.   Gasoline and Diesel Oil Consumption - 1965-1973
5.  Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions - 1965-1973
6.   Road User Contributions - 1965-1973
7.   Design Standards for Project Roads
8.   Breakdown of Construction Cost Estimates
9.   Average Daily Traffic Forecast on Project Roads - 1974-1997
10.   Vehicle Operating Costs
11.   Sensitivity Analyses of Economic Returns
ANNEXES
1.   Bank/IDA Projects in the Transport Sector and other
External Assistance for the Sector
2.   Schedule of Disbursements
CHART
IBRD 6342(R) - Organization Chart of the Directorate of Highways
MAPS
IBRD 3770R1 - Paraguay Highway Network Southern Region
IBRD 3769   - Paraguay Highway Network (overall)



PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Development of the transport system in Paraguay is being under-
taken by the Government with three primary objectives in mind: (a) to foster
output of productive areas through better transport facilities; (b) to dis-
tribute the population more evenly in the country and to integrate scattered
centers of production into the national economy; and (c) to improve inter-
national links with neighboring countries. The transport sector, in recent
years, has received the largest share of public investments, and the basic
system now exists. With particular reference to roads, the Government's
policy of upgrading and improvement over the last ten years -- a policy in
which the Bank and IDA have played a role -- has resulted in reasonable
standards and improved maintenance. As a consequence, road transport has
become increasingly important, particularly in view of the decline in effi-
ciency of the railway system over the last 20 years, and roads are now the
principal mode for domestic freight and passengers. A wide domestic air
service network complements the surface system. River transport is un-
important domestically, but the bulk of Paraguay's foreign trade is carried
by river craft and small freighters along the Paraguay-Parana-Rio de la
Plata system (about 1,600 km).
ii.       Continued improvements in the transport sector will be a major
factor in facilitating further development of the economy, and, if there is
to be internal colonization as the Government hopes, better access will be
needed to induce this development and to permit transport of agricultural
products at reasonable cost. Apart from the Trans-Chaco road, being financed
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the main emphasis will be in
the southeastern region of the country where economic activity is centered,
and where topographical and soil conditions and river communications
are favorable for agricultural development. The project roads are located
in potentially rich areas within this region; their construction will ensure
all-weather connections and will facilitate the development of this "Plan
Triangulo" area.
iii.      There is continuing and active external assistance in the transport
sector in Paraguay. Between 1961 and 1970, the World Bank Group provided
four loans and one credit, totalling US$16.3 million, for studies and con-
struction and maintenance of highways, and one loan, amounting to US$2.8
million, for improvement of port facilities in Asuncion. In 1956, the
Export-Import Bank provided US$1.12 million for construction of the runway
of the international airport of Asuncion. Thereafter, in 1968, USAID pro-
vided US$4.7 million for financing a new and larger runway. In 1960 and
1967, USAID provided two loans totalling about US$10 million for the recon-
struction and pavement of the Asuncion-Puerto Presidente Stroessner road
(330 km). USAID provided a further loan of US$4.7 million in 1970 for the
rehabilitation of a section of the same road. Between 1964 and 1972, UNDP
also provided financial assistance totalling US$1.0 million for highway



- ii -
studies, training programs, and a transport survey; the Bank has been the
executing agency for UNDP-financed studies. Finally, in 1971, the IDB
provided US$26.4 million for financing the engineering and construction of
the Trans-Chaco highway. The latter is the largest single road project
ever undertaken in Paraguay.
iv.       The proposed project will provide for (a) the construction and
reconstruction of two high priority roads (Encarnacion-Pirapo, about 76 km,
including a short spur and a bypass; and Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia,
about 26 km, including a short access road); (b) purchase of spare parts,
tires and batteries as a followup of the current highway maintenance project
(Loan 652-PA); and (c) consulting services for supervision of construction,
for highway maintenance services and studies, and for assistance in transport
planning and aid to the local construction industry. The two project roads
under (a) preceding were among 450 km of roads identified by a UNDP-financed
feasibility study carried out during 1964-1967 which determined the agri-
cultural potential and road requirements of southeastern Paraguay. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering for some of these roads (260 km) were later
performed under the Bank's Second Highway Project (Loan 443-PA, 1966, US$2.1
million).
v.        Execution of the project is expected to take about three and a
half years and would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications (MOPC) through its Directorate of Highways. Consultants
contracted under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank will assist in
prequalifying bidders and in evaluating bids and will supervise construction.
Construction contracts will be awarded on a unit price basis after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group "Guidelines".
The purchase of tires and batteries will be made through competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines"; spare parts orders not in excess
of US$50,000 may be awarded directly to the dealers of the equipment. For
carrying out the highway maintenance services and studies, MOPC proposes to
engage the same consultants that are currently assisting in maintenance
operations.
vi.       Construction and improvement of the project roads are expected to
provide benefits by reducing both vehicle operating costs and maintenance
costs, by meeting expected traffic demand (conservative estimates forecast
an annual growth of about 6%), and by facilitating the access to rich agri-
cultural areas. The economic return from construction of the Encarnacion-
Pirapo road is 24%, and that of the Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road is
13%, with a weighted average of 21% for the civil works as a whole.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$20.0 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange element of US$14.5 million (72%). The foreign
exchange element has been determined on the basis of analysis of unit prices
for each type of work, and it assumes that construction will be carried out
by foreign firms subcontracting part of the works to, or associated with,
local firms. The foreign cost of consulting services for construction super-
vision is estimated at 80%, based on experience with similar services in
Paraguay.



- iii -
viii.     It is proposed that the entire foreign exchange cost of the
project be covered by a Bank loan of US$14.5 million equivalent. The
Government has agreed to meet the local costs of the project in the amount
of approximately US$5.5 million equivalent. On the basis of the average
economic life of road construction works, an appropriate loan tern would
be 25 years, including a five-year grace period.






PARAGUAY
APPRAISAL OF A FOURThI HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Paraguay has requested Bank assistance to help
finance a highway project comprising (a) tne construction and reconstruction
of the Encarnacion-Pirapo road, including a short spur road and a bypass, and
of the Nbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road, including a short access road
(Map IBRD 3770R1); (b) the purchase of spare parts, tires and batteries for
highway maintenance equipment; and (c) consulting services for supervision
of construction and assistance for highway maintenance, for transport planning
and for aid to the local construction industry. The cost of the project is
estimated at about US$20.0 million equivalent; the foreign cost component of
US$14.5 million is proposed for financing by a loan, and the balance of US$5.5
million equivalent in local costs will be provided by the Government.
1.02      The project roads were identified during a UNDP-financed feasibility
study carried out during 1964-1967, for which the Bank acted as executing
agency (Annex 1, para 9); this study determined the agricultural potential
and associated road requirements for southeastern Paraguay (the "Plan Triangulo"
area). Feasibility studies and detailed engineering were later done under
the Second Highway Project (Loan 443-PA) by consultants Louis Berger, Inc.
(US) in association with Sociedad Argentina de Estudios (SAE, Argentina).
1.03      The proposed project will be the fourth Bank Group operation in
highways. Previous lending in the mode was as follows:
(a)  Credit 12-PA (US$6.0 million, 1961), supplemented by Loan
396-PA (US$2.2 million, 1964), financed reconstruction and
paving of about 300 km of road, as well as preparation of
a maintenance master plan. All project works were success-
fully completed by early 1970, about three years behind
schedule. However, shortly after completion of the work,
the contractor (Hochtief, Federal Republic of Germany) made
a claim which has been rejected by the Government; legal
remedies are under consideration (Annex 1, para 3);
(b)  Loan 443-PA (US$2.1 million, 1966) helped finance reconstruction
and paving of a 43-km section of road, and technical and economic
studies of some sections identified by the UNDP study (para 1.02).
Road works were satisfactorily completed in 1969, and the feasi-
bility studies were completed in 1970; and
(c)  Loan 652-PA (US$6.0 million, 1970) is helping to purchase mainte-
nance equipment and providing consulting services to implement
a four-year maintenance program. The project is generally making
good progress and should be completed by mid-1975, or about
one and a half years behind schedule.



-2-
Details of these projects and of other external assistance for the transport
sector are provided in Annex 1.
1.04      The anpraisal of the present project is based on technical and
economic studies prepared by consultants, and on the findings of an appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. R. Paraud (Engineer) and A. Soto and Miss I. W.
Pastor (Economists), which visited Paraguay in November 1971. Mr. Georae
Aithnard (Economist) of the African Develonment Bank, who was attached to
the lWorld Bank Group for training purposes, also participated in the appraisal
mission and in the preparation of this report.  The Government's subsequent
requests for revision of engineering and cost estimates, and discussions with
Government regarding the financing terms, as well as the need to review the
fiscal situation to ensure availability of local funds, delayed report prepar-
ation. The above-mentioned problems were recently resolved, and a mission
comprising Messrs. R. Paraud (Engineer) and R. Rafloski (Economist) visited
Paraguay in March 1974 to update the appraisal information.
2.  BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      The Republic of Paraguay is landlocled in the middle of South
America; its most important transport link to the sea is provided by the
river system formed by the unbridged Paraguay River which flows north-south
across the country to join the Parana River at the border with Argentina
(Map IBRD 3769). About 80% of the country's population of 2.4 million and
most of the economic activity are located east of the Paraguay River in
the "Triangulo" area, roughly defined by its corners at Asuncion (the
capital), Encarnacion, and Puerto Presidente Stroessner. The country's
economy is based mainly on primary and processed agricultural products.
Paraguay's development prospects are generally good; transport improvements
will, however, be a major factor in facilitating further development.
2.02      In order to develop Paraguay's agricultural potential, the Govern-
ment is pursuing a policy of intensive internal colonization; roads have been
provided to support these efforts and also to integrate scattered centers of
agricultural and industrial production into the national economy. The trans-
port sector has recently been receiving the largest share of public invest-
ments, and the basic transport system -- essentially roads -- now exists.
However, continued emphasis on extendin- and improving the road system to
meet the growing demands of agricultural development is needed.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.03      Road transport is the main mode used for domestic freight and
passengers, particularly since the steady decline in the efficiency of the
railway system over the past 20 years (para 2.05). A wide domestic air
service network complements surface transport. River transport is unimpor-
tant domestically except for timber rafting and some internal river shipping



-3-
on the Paraguay and Parana, but it does provide Paraguay with her most vital
link to the sea, and some 85% of all foreign trade is carried by this mode.
The river route, however, is facing competition following construction in
the early 1960's of a bridge across the Parana River between Paraguay and
Brazil, and the recent completion of a paved road from the Paraguayan border
through Brazil to the Atlantic port of Paranagua; this bridge and road,
together, provide an alternative link with the sea.
Highways
2.04      Details of the highway system and its administration are given in
Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      The state-owned Presidente Carlos Antonio Lopez (PCAL) railway is
run by a semi-autonomous Government agency under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MIOPC). The railway crosses the
"Triangulo" area from Asuncion to Encarnacion (376 kn) and is linked by ferry
with the Argentine railway (General Urquiza system) at Encarnacion.  There
would, however, be no direct competition between the railway and the proposed
project roads. The extremely poor condition of the track and rolling stock,
partly caused by neglect on the part of the Government to modernize the rail-
way at the time of its purchase in 1961, has made railway service inefficient,
unattractive and uneconomical. Traffic on the railway has been generally
declining since 1950, with passenger traffic dropDing frori over 2.0 million
p.a. at that time to 0.2 million p.a. in 1973. Freight traffic has increased
from a low of 74,000 tons in 1967 to 132,000 tons in 1973, which is still con-
siderably below a viable traffic level (Table 1). Operating deficits reached
a peak in 1969 (US$0.6 million) and, in 1972, had declined to approximately
US$0.4 million.
2.06      Several studies have been undertaken to determine the future of
the PCAL railway, but none were required to deal explicitly with the economic
implications of discontinuing rail services altogether. Studies to investi-
gate rehabilitation of the railway have also been carried out, but the sub-
stantial investments required (US$6.1 to 7.5 million) and the expected
relatively low transport demand have precluded the implementation of the
studies' recommendations. In 1970, Louis Berger, Inc. and SAE, as part of
the "Plan Triangulo" study (para 1.02), analyzed the prospects for the
railway vis-a-vis potential road competition and recormended the gradual
closing down of the railway.
2.07      Following this recommendation, the Bank reached agreement with the
Government in May 1971 that the latter would provide no further financial
support to the railway beyond the level of funds currently assigned to meet
its deficit and would permit only those investments which could be financed
within this limit. The UIDP study, completed in July 1973 (Annex 1, para 10),
proposed either (a) closing the line or (b) partial rehabilitation of
track, purchase of new equipment, closure of the Abai branch and abolition of



-4-
special passenger service. The consultants recommended the latter but felt
that the difference between closing the line and following the latter recom-
mendation was not very significant financially and that the Government should
make the choice. Thev did conclude, however, that the partial rehabilitation
would not be economically profitable. A study in earlv 1974, conducted by a
technical mission sponsored by the Government of Janan, investigated the
electrification and rehabilitation of the railwaY and estimated the cost to
be some US$75 million, including equipment. Their final report is due in
late 1974.   Because the economic feasibility of the railway has not changed
significantl since the Bank's discussions with the Government in 1971 and
the contemplated investment would seriously dilute funds needed for other
modes, the Bank obtained reaffirmation from the Government in writing that
the previously agreed limitation of financial support to PCAL will be
maintained.
River Tr_anport
2.08      The Paraguay and the Parana are the principal navigable rivers of
Paraguay and, with Argentina's Rio de la Plata, constitute a 1,600-km system
along which the bulk of Paraguay's foreign trade is carried; most of this
trade is transshipped in Buenos Aires or Montevideo. Service on these river
links suffers because of severe seasonal fluctuations in the water level of
the Paraguay River, and a study into the possibility of improving its
navigability began in January 1970, partly financed by a UNDP grant of about
US$800,000 equivalent. The draft final report of the first phase of the study,
for which the Administracion Nacional de Navegacion v Puertos (ANNP, para 2.09)
was the executing agency, was submitted in December 1973. The study recom-
mends, inter alia, an investment and maintenance program for dredging the
Paraguay and Parana Rivers below Asuncion. The conclusions and recommenda-
tions are currently under consideration by the Government of Paraguay and
Argentina.  The plan of operation for the second phase of the studv, an
examination of navigation requirements north of Asuncion, also to be partially
financed by the UNDP, is under consideration among the Governments of
Paraguav. Brazil and Argentina.
Ports
2.09      Ports handle about 85% of all international traffic and are satis-
factorily managed by the semi-autonomous ANNP.  The main port, at Asuncion,
has recently been improved with Bank financing (Loan 437-PA, US$2.8 million,
December 1965) (Annex 1, para 5). Traffic at Asuncion, including private
piers, amounted to about 490,000 tons p.a. during the past three years:
this constitutes more than 70% of Paraguay's total river imports and exports.
In addition to Asuncion, there are a number of minor ports which handle small
volumes of local and international traffic.
State Merchant Fleet
2.10      The Flota Mercante del Estado (FME), a semi-autonomous Government
agency, has a small but modern merchant fleet of 27 cargo ships with a total
carrying capacity of about 20,000 tons (capacitY per vessel ranges from 280



- 5 -
to 1,200 tons), and two passenger ships. Most of the fleet operates on the
Paraguay-Parana-Rio de la Plata river system. FHIE's traffic averages more
than 150,000 tons annually, about 20% of the country's total import and
export volume.
Air Transport
2.11      Air transport in Paraguay is provided by two airlines.  The largest,
Transportes Aereos Mtilitares (TAM), is state owned, and is now, after several
years of deficits, breaking even financially. With a fleet of nineteen DC-3s,
TAM handles more than half the domestic passenger and freight traffic. The
other, Lineas Aereas Paraguayas (LAP), which -s also operated by tile Paraguay-
an Air Force, provides services to Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Peru and
Uruguay. LAP has a fleet of three Electras, one Convair 240 and one DC 3.
Only two Electras and the DC-3 are in regular operation. Because LAP is
operated by the military, actual operating revenues and expenditures are
difficult to ascertain. The LAP administration maintains its revenues to
meet recurring expenses, but the Government is subsidizing its capital outlays
of some US$600,000 per year. Most of these capital ex enses are in payment
for the three Electras, which will be paid off in 1977.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.12      Although the Government has no formally defined transport policy,
investments made in the sector have generally met the development needs
of productive areas through better transport facilities; a policy needs to
be defined, however, and the UNDP-financed transport survey (para 2.15)
recommends measures for so doing. The present project is, nevertheless,
consistent with development needs since it will provide better access to
present and future agricultural developments.
2.13      Transport investment plans are prepared by MOPC on the basis of
project lists prepared by the agencies in charge of the various modes. The
Secretaria Tecnica de Planificacion (STP) reports directly to the President
and is responsible for overall economic planning. This agency examines the
economic viability of MOPC's investment plans on the basis of expected
economic and financial resources and social, economic and political goals.
The transport plan is finally approved by the Government and included in
the public investment plan.
2.14      Planning coordination among the transport agencies is poor, and
the decision-making process is carried out independently by each of them.
Internally, however, there are no major modal coordination problems since, at
present, the only competitive modes would be the PCAL railway and the existing
roads.
2.15      To help the Government with its investment planning and with other
problems in the transport sector, UNDP financed a transport survey, with
the Bank acting as executing agency. The consultants, BCEOM (France)/ENECOM
(Brazil), started field work in Februiary 1972 and finished in July 1973.



- 6 -
They made recommendations on policies for integrating the transport system,
priorities for investment in all modes, steps for creating and operating an
agency for transport planning and coordination, and training for local pro-
fessional staff of the planning agency.
2.16      The major recommendation for transport planning and coordination
was the creation, as a first step, of the Office of Coordination and Integral
Planning of Transport (OCIPT) within the MOPC to continue the transport survey
effort. This office was legally created during the study phase but, in
practice, did not operate because the Ministry of Finance did not make the
necessary funds available. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that it will provide the financing for the operation
and staffing of OCIPT with approximately 15 professionals and supporting staff.
Agreements were also reached during negotiations on the timetable for setting
up and staffing the OCIPT to be in operation by mid-1976.
2.17      The second step proposed by the UNDP-financed transport survey
was the creation of a National Transport Council (Consejo Nacional de Trans-
porte, CNT) whose role would be mainly technical and would consist in formu-
lating and implementing a national transportation policy consistent with
economic development conditions. The CNT would also be responsible for
planning and coordinating investments within the system and would act as a
regulating authority for tariffs and user charges for transport. The con-
sultants considered that the creation of the CNT in the future would be the
intermediate step necessary prior to the creation of a Ministry of Transport,
whose power would include the authoritv to impose taxes.
2.18      The consultants also recommended that OCIPT would be the channel
through which local personnel could be further trained on-the-job by foreign
technical assistance and sent abroad for additional training. The proposed
project provides for the financing of such technical assistance, estimated
to cost US$400,000 in total (US$300,000 for consulting services for training
on-the-job and US$100,000 for training abroad). During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached with the Government on the timing and the method of selection
of consultants to undertake the required technical assistance.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The highway network in Paraguay totals about 6,500 km, of which
more than three-quarters are earth. Road development over the past 20 years
has been concentrated on paving primary roads and on extending the system
(Table 2). The network as a whole provides acceptable transport to most
populated areas of the country. However, some of the existing paved and
gravel roads need to be improved to meet growing traffic volumes and facili-
tate the development of new agricultural areas. For administrative purposes,



- 7 -
the highway system is classified into national or primary highways, depart-
mental or secondary highways, and local or feeder roads; there are, in -
addition, some other roads such as oil development roads.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.02      As a result of recent Bank projects, traffic counts are now carried
out more frequently than in the past, and traffic data are available on some
of the primary and secondary roads. There are also some traffic data on the
"Plan Triangulo" area roads. The UNDP-financed transport survey (para. 2.15)
has also provided updated traffic counts, and the Second Road Maintenance
Project, Loan 652-PA, provides for the setting up of a permanent traffic
counting system. The UNDP-financed transport survey shows that the weighted
average daily traffic (ADT) for asphalt roads is 650 vehicles per day, for
gravel and earth roads, 65 vehicles per day and for penetration roads, 25
vehicles per day. Traffic on paved roads near Asuncion ranges from 2,600 to
6,000 vehicles per day.
3.03      Statistics on the vehicle fleet are not collected on a regular
basis. The last Government census was taken in 1963, and, under the auspices
of the IJNDP-transport survey, a subsequent census was conducted in 1970.
These counts show that the total vehicle park grew from 10,952 vehicles in
1963 to 23,022 in 1970 or 11.2% p.a. on average. The number of light vehicles
grew from 7,150 to 17,450 from 1963 to 1970, or 13.5% p.a., whereas the truck
fleet grew from 2,228 to 3,513 or 6.7% p.a. The 1970 figures (Table 3)
indicate that the vehicle density for that year would be about 10 vehicles per
1,000 inhabitants, one of the lowest among the Latin American countries. 1/
However, this fleet appears to be adequate to meet existing transport demand
(the average truck capacity is 7.5 m tons, and the average cargo load is
3.1 m tons).
3.04      The consultants have indicated that the growth of the vehicle fleet
is 11.2% p.a. Traffic counts on roads previously financed by the Bank show
an annual growth rate ranging from 10%0 to 15% over the 1965-1973 period.  The
gasoline consumption increased at an average rate of 6.4% p.a. between 1965
and 1973, while diesel consumption increased by 11% during the same period
(Table 4). These figures indicate that the annual rate of growth for traffic
may be taken to be between 8% and 15%.
3.05      Bus transport is highly competitive and loosely regulated; companies
are generally run by individual owners or cooperatives.  Trucking for import
and export traffic is provided largely by Argentine and Brazilian companies;
domestic trucking is unregulated and is handled by small local firms or by
individuals. The consultants for the transport survey recommend some regula-
tion of the tariffs in the trucking industry as well as in other transport
modes in order to reach financial equilibrium for all modes. A law has been
presented to the Congress which provides a basis for establishing transport
policies and pricing regulations; however, it does not contain specific policy
1/   Bolivia also has approximately 10 vehicles per 1,000 population.



- 8 -
measures or regulations. Thus, to assist the trucking industry as well as the
Government, a review of the industry should be undertaken in order to detqrmine
the steps necessary to provide services which will adequately meet consumer
demand at reasonable prices. For these tasks, the proposed project includes
a trucking industry specialist and a transport economist in the technical
assistance element.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.06      The "Plan Triangulo" study (Annex 1, para 9) was a first attempt
to plan highway transport comprehensively on a regional basis. Feasibility
and detailed engineering studies of priority roads thus identified were
carried outt under Loan 443-PA (Annex 1, para 6), and have provided the basis
for the present project as well as for a possible further project.
3.07      A five-year transport investment program (1971-1975), prepared
by MOPC, was approved in February 1971, taking into account not only the
overall development requirements of the country, but also some political
criteria. Forecast highway expenditures were estimated to grow almost three-
fold in the 1971-1975 period to a total of approximately 0 2.5 billion, or
US$19.5 million equivalent, in 1975. However, the proposed investment program
appears to be too ambitious; actual expenditures for 1972 and 1973 were 46%
and 20%, respectively, of those planned. It should be noted that the overall
highway expenditures, including maintenance, have remained fairly constant,
averaging about US$5.6 million per year from 1969 to 1973 (Table 5). The
consultants for the transport survey (para. 2.15) now estimate that rhe
investment budget for priority projects for the period 1974-1977 should be
some US$6.6 million equivalent per year, including the Encarnacion-Pirapo
road but excluding the Trans-Chaco road, which would cost about an additional
US$8.0 million per year.  It is unlikely that the complete recommended program
can be carried out, particularly with the funds available to the transport
sector, the lack of adequate institutional arrangements to carry out the pro-
gram and the lack of detailed engineerin- for these projects (except the
Trans-Chaco and the proposed Bank project). The proposed Bank project would
average UIS$5.0 million per year for the 1975-1978 period. The forecast yearly
investment wqould then be about US$16.0 million per year, almost triple the
previous five-year average.
3.08      Mfajor planning obstacles have been the absence of a transport data
collection system and of a suitable focus for collecting and evaluating these
data. To remedy these deficiencies, the Government agreed under Loan 652-PA
(Section 5.12) to establish and maintain an adequately staffed and equipped
office to collect and analyze data required for the proper planning of main-
tenance, improvement and expansion of national roads; also, the project itself
provided for the preparation of a road inventory. The inventory is being
completed, and the Government has set up a highway planning office within
MOPC, but so far the responsibilities of this office have been limited to
thie planning for maintenance; the Government, therefore, did not comply in
full with Section 5.12 of Loan Agreement 652-PA because it did not favor the
creation of a new bureaucratic organization. Highway planning in the mean-
time was carried out by the MOPC Planning Unit in coordination with DGV on



- 9 -
the basis of the limited available data. The Bank initially insisted on
full compliance with the above-mentioned Section 5.12, but when it was
known that the UNDP-financed transport survey recommended the creation of
OCIPT (para 2.16), the Bank decided instead to reach an agreement with the
Governme,nt under the present project for the centralization of all highway
planning efforts under OCIPT. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
21OPC's office would be responsible for overall public works and OCIPT for
transport planning and coordination only.
3.09      Over the 1965-1973 period, about 40% of highway expenditures have
been financed by external borrowing, while most of the remainder, comprising
local funds, have been provided from earmarked taxes from fuels and the 5%
surcharge on imports. Total revenues from road users (Table 6) have, in
recent years, substantially exceeded total expenditures on roads (Table 5).
D.   Highway Administration
3.10      The Direccion General de Vialidad (DGV) within MOPC is responsible
for planning, constructing and maintaining all national and departmental
roads in the country (about 807 of the total network). Responsibility for
construction and maintenance of feeder and oil development roads is entrusted
to two other departments within MOPC (Direccion de Juntas Viales and Direccion
de Rectursos Minerales). Additionally, the Ministry of Defense constructs
and maintains about 1,200 km of roads in the Chaco region through its Civil
Action Program, and some minor road works are also carried out by the Insti-
tute of Rural Welfare of the Ministry of Agriculture and by the Paraguayan-
Brazilian Commission.
3.11      I-hen DGV was created in 1947, its primary concern was to be road
traffic regulation; however, in the late 1960's, it was reorganized and given
responsibility for preparing and carrying out highway programs and highway
administration, and separate departments were created within DGV for engineer-
ing, maintenance, equipment and administration (see Chart). In spite of some
institutional improvements, lines of responsibility are still not well defined
and salaries are relatively low (para 3.22). Institutional improvements in
DGV are continuing under the most recent Bank-financed highway project. To
cope with the increased workload resulting from (a) the proposed project, (b)
other construction and rehabilitation works and (c) the increasing highway
maintenance effort, DGV's technical and administrative staff would have to
be increased. As shown in paragraph 3.07, the forecast vearly investments
during the 1975-1978 period would be about three times the average expendi-
tures in the previous five-year period, and the hiring of additional engineers,
accountants, administrators and secretarial help would be required. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that DGV's technical and adminis-
trative staff will be strengthened to an adequate level, approximately six
professional and administrative staff, to cope with the increased workload.
3.12      Regulations limiting vehicle weights and dimensions are generally
satisfactory (legal axle load limit is 10 tons), but improvements are needed
in their enforcement. Three fixed weighing stations have been established,



- 10 -
however, and the Bank has financed the purchase of portable scales; the
consultants, Jorgensen (US)/Tecnipar (Paraguay) have recommended the measures
needed for effective enforcement of the regulations. During loan negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that enforcement will be improved
through the use of a reorganized highway patrol as well as of portable scales.
A special committee will soon be appointed to review all existin, regulations
and, taking into consideration the consultants' comments, will recommend
measures to improve and expedite the enforcement of these regulations.
E.   Highway Engineering
3.13      Staff limitations a&low DGV to undertake design only on a limited
scale; major projects are designed by consultantF. There are two local
consulting firms active in highways.
3.14      DGV has a set of geometric design standards, but they are not
wirdely used.  When major construction is to be done, as in the case of this
proposed project, the consultants propose design standards to fit the circum-
stances of the particular proJect, taking Into account physical conditions,
traffic volumes, etc. The standards for this project (Table 7) have already
been approved by the Government and are acceptable.
F.   Highway Construction
3.15      Construction of the major highways started in 1960 with the improve-
ment and paving of the Asuncion-Puerto Presidente Stroessner road under two
USAID loans (Annex 1, para 11); other roads were also paved under Bank/IDA-
financed projects (Annex 1, paras 2, 3 and 6). Since 1960, in many cases
with USATD assistance through its PL-480 programs, low-standard earth roads
have been constructed to serve new settlement areas. The Government is now
using IDB financial assistance (USS26.4 million) to undertake its largest
investment in highways, the paving of about 300 km of the 425 km of the Trans-
Chaco road, at a total cost of about US$33 million; construction is expected
to take about four years (mid-1973 to mid-1977).
3.16      Major highway construction work is normally carried out under unit
price contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. There are only
three local construction firms capable of carrying out small-scale road
works, and about 30 small firms which specialize in drainage structures,
minor earthworks, and supplying of materials. Major construction works are
carried out normally by foreign contractors with participation of local firms
through subcontracts. The local construction industry is, however, poten-
tially capable of further expansion but needs technical assistance for its
development; this would be provided under the proposed project. An amount
of US$100,000 has been included to engage consultants who would work with
the contractors' association or with individual firms to assist them in
(a) work planning, site management, equipment usage and personnel training;
and (b) costing and bid preparation.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that it will engage consultants, to be selected
according to Bank procedures, for assisting the local construction industry,



- 11 -
and that due consideration will be given to the consultants' recommendations
so that the local contractors could participate more actively in future highway
construction and rehabilitation works.
3.17      DGV carries out some construction and reconstruction works by force
account, frequentlv in conjunction with the army engineering brigade. The
Juntas Viales (Local Boards) and other Government departments also undertake
construction of local roads, generally in coordination with DGV. Government-
financed highway work is normallv supervised by DGV staff.  However, because
of the expanded workload created by the proposed project, supervision of
construction will be carried out by consultants.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.18      DGV performs all its highway maintenance commiitments by force
account, through four district offices; supply of materials is usually by
contract. Maintenance in the fifth district (the Chaco) is a military res-
ponsibility (para 3.10), and there are no immediate plans for DCV to take
over this task. The Juntas Viales maintain loc-al roads witlh equipment and
financial assistance provided by DGV.
3.19      Initially, the organization of maintenance did not keep pace with
the changes in the system, and, since most of the earth and gravel roads
were originally only tracks with poor alignment and without adequate drainage,
they are generally difficult to maintain. In addition, the continuing short-
age of funds and equipment meant that DGV was not able to extend maintenance
to the entire primary highway network on a permanent basis.  The situation
has improved substantially since 1970 when allocation of funds for highway
maintenance was increased and the Bank-financed technical assistance provided
a highway maintenance program which used the allocated funds and new equipment
more efficiently.
3.20      A master plan for maintenance was prepared in 1967 by consultants
(Brown & Root, US) under the Second Highway Project and, in January 1970,
the Bank made a loan for implementing this plan (Loan 652-PA, US$6.0 million -
see Annex 1, para 7) and for the purchase of maintenance equipment. Consul-
tants, Roy Jorgensen (US), in association with Tecnipar (Paraguay), are
assisting DGV in implementing the maintenance program, and equipment purchases
and construction of workshops are well under way. However, the Highway Main-
tenance Department within DGV is weak, and, as a result, the day-to-day opera-
tions are carried out by the consultants; the Department needs to be strength-
ened, and the project provides for an extension of the consultants' services
(which have been very effective) for an interim period of about two years,
during which period the Department would have to be strengthened with addit-
ional engineers, technicians, etc. as well as transportation and other
facilities needed for the proper operation of the Department; the consultants
will assist in the setting up of an adequate Highway Maintenance Department.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government (a) that
during such period, the present Maintenance Department will be strengthened,
increasing its professional staff by approximately three people and (b) that



- 12 -
it will take over all maintenance operations from the consultants within the
two-year period according to a timetable agreed with the Bank.
3.21      In spite of the fart that highway maintenance has substantially
improved during recent years as a result of Bank projects, it is now necessary
to undertake a study which would include an analysis of achievements reached
and the preparation of an advanced Highway Maintenance Program which could
possibly provide the basis for a further maintenance project. The proposed
project provides for the financing of consulting services to carry out suich
a study, and, during negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the retention of consultants to carry out the study.
3.22      A cost accounting svsten for maintenance works is now being implemented
by the consultants and DGV as part of the Second Road Maintenance Project.  The
training program for mechanics -- part of the project -- is being carried
out satisfactorily (so far, 27 mechanics and two engineers have been trained
in Brazil and in Panama) and will continue until project completion. How.ever,
because of low salary scales, many of the trainees may not remain long in DCV's
service on completion of their training. The consultants proposed a revised
salary scale to make salaries more competitive with those of private industry
and to rationalize salaries for similar positions. Accordingly, DGV granted
some salary increases and succeeded in retaining some personnel in service.
The problem is becoming more arute now that the preparatory works for the
Itaipu and Yacireta-Apipe dams over the Parana River have started. The Itaipu
dam twill be constructed with Brazilian financing, and its preliminary cost
estimate is US$4.0 billion equivalent; the Yacireta-Apipe dam is to be built
with Argentine financing, and its preliminarv cost estimate is about US$2.5
billion equivalent. The demand for skilled labor, technicians and engineers
created by these huge works is increasing. The Government considers that this
nay become a major problem and has undertaken measures to avoid, as far as
practicable, the drainage of its personnel. Additional salary increases,
scholarships and other incentives are being considered. In order to permit
the recruitment of suitable qualified personnel and to keep the dropout rate
to a minimum, assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that it wgill put into effect the additional incentives it deems necessary for
recruiting and retaining DGV personnel.
3.23      A desirable level of maintenance allocations for the 1970-1973
period was agreed in connection with the Third Highway Project. As a result,
maintenance expenditures during the 1970-1973 period have been, on the
average, much higher than in previous years. It is expected that, by mid-
1975, all the equipment financed under Loan 652-PA will have been purchased;
an adequate allocation is being provided for its operation.
3.24      To ensure the continuity of this expanded maintenance program, the
Bank agreed with the Government during negotiations on the minimum amounts
to be allocated for maintenance during 1975-1978. DGV's maintenance budget
provides for some expenditures not strictly for maintenance (e.g., general
administrative expenditures) which should not be inappropriate as long as the



- 13 -
budget provides enouglh funds for the proper maintenance of the road network.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the National and Depart-
mental Highwav Systems will continue to be adequately maintained.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a)  Road construction and reconstruction as follows:
(i)  Encarnacion-Hohenau-Pirapo Road - The reconstruction and paving
of an existing gravel road between Encarnacion and Hohenau
(37 km) and the construction of a bypass around the city
of Encarnacion (about 1.5 km) and of a spur road to the
river port of Pacu-Cua (about 4.5 km); and the construction,
including paving, of a new 33-km section between Hohenau and
Pirano; 1/
(ii) Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia Road - Reconstruction, including
paving, of this 24-km road and of the access road to Melgarejo
(about 2 km).
(b) Purchase of spare parts, tires and batteries for the equipment being
financed under Loan 652-PA; and
(c) Consulting services for:
(i)  Supervision of construction of the roads under (a) above;
(ii) Extension of the technical assistance currently being provided
(under Loan 652-PA) for maintenance;
(iii) A study to determine further highway maintenance requirements,
and
(iv) Technical assistance for transport planning and for aid to
the local construction industry.
Road Construction and Reconstruction
4.02      Out of 450 km of roads identified under a UNDP study, a total of
260 km were studied by Louis Berger (US) and SAE (Argentina) under Loan 443-PA
1/   This new section would replace the existing 49-km section between Hohenau
and Pirapo which crosses a network of small rivers; it has sharp curves
and steep grades, which makes travel difficult, particularly during the
rainy season. The proposed new route would substantially improve the
alignment and would shorten the present Encarnacion-Pirapo road by about
20 km.



- 14 -
(nara 1.02 and Annex 1, para 6). The roads mentioned in paragraph 4.01 (a)
achieved an acceptable economic priority, and detailed engineering for them
was satisfactorily carried out by the same consultants.  Subsequently, the 1973
UNDP-financed Transport Survey also identified the Encarnacion-l1ohenau-Pirapo
road as a high priority road, although thie survey did not include the 'roocayaty-
Colonia Tndependencia road. The latter has been includecl in the project at
the Government's request in view of its satisfactory economic prospects. Details
of the roads and the areas which they serve are given in Chapter 5.  Tihe pro-
posed design standards are shlown in Table 7.
4.03       The existing gravel road between Encarnacion and 711ohenau crosses
rolling terrain and can be classified as an improved track.  The horizontal
and vertical alignments are not satisfactory and tlau road lacks an appropriate
drainage system; during very heavy rains, DGV closes the road in order to
avoid major maintenance expenditures.  The present connection between idohenau
and Pirapo is through i network of poor gravel surfaced tracks crossing num-
erous farms and has thle same drainage problem as th1e first section.  The urD-
ject would provide a pavecl, all-weather road needed to cope with tne growing
traffic demand.
4.04      The present earth road between Mbocayaty an,! Colonia Independeacia
crosses rolling terrain tlhrough an important agricultural area, tiie develop-
ment of whi-:h is iampered by the poor condition of thie road.  Because of
insufficient drainage, the road is floodeJ during heavy rains, with frequent
traffic stoppages; its reconstruction, including paving, is urgent to provide
a permanent connection to the outside markets.
4.05      Specific lbor-intensive teclhniques have not been used for the civil
works design mainly because the Government does not favor substitution of
labor for equipment, chiiefly because of possible higher financial costs and
lower quiality work, but also because the average unenmployment rate in Parag;ay
is relatively low (6%). In light of the above, the designs and detailed en-
gineering for the proposed project were prepared under the Government's super-
vision on the basis of normal equipment usage and normal labor input by con-
tractors. Further, it is now expected that the construction works at the two
dams (para. 3.22) will absorb most of the unemployed able to work on civil
works projects.
Purchase of Spare Parts, Tires and Batteries
4.06      The project includes the procurement of spare parts, tires and
batteries for maintenance equipment for a period of about two years. This
item was included to assure satisfactory progress under the ongoing maintenance
project (Loan 652-PA). The increased maintenance activity, resulting largely
from the maintenance project, necessitates an increase in the inventory of spares.
Consulting Services
4.07      The project provides for the financing of consulting services for
supervision of construction and for assistance in highway maintenance. The
present DGV Maintenance Department is weak, and the day-to-day operations are



- 15 -
carried out by the consultants; the project provides for the extension of
the consultants' services for an interim period of about two years, during
which period DGV should strengthen its maintenance department and take over
all maintenance operations (para. 3.20).
4.08      Since the Bank feels that DGV needs furthter assistance for highway
maintenance, the present project provides for the financing of an advanced
Highway Maintenance Program which would furnish the basis for a furtlher
maintenance loan (para. 3.21).
4.09      The proposed project additionally provides for technical assis-
tance in two areas:
(a) Transportation planning and training abroad of local personael.
The creation of OCIPT (para. 2.16) leads to the need for on-the-
job training of planners, economists, etc., which will be carried
out through a consulting firm, as well as the need to send local
personnel abroad for training (para. 2.18); and
(b) Aid to the local construction industry (para. 3.16).
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$20.0 million,
including contingency allowances; the proposed loan would finance the esti-
mated foreign exchange component of US$14.5 million.  'Fable 8 shows a break-
down of construction cost estimates by major items. A sunmary of total
estimated project costs is shown on page 16 following.
4.11      A contingencv allowance of about 10%l has been included to cover
possible quantity increases; since detailed engineering has been satisfactor-
ily completed, this allowance should be adequate. A contingency of about
25"' for nrice escalation on civil works has also been included on the basis
of the average annual increases indicated in recent bank sttudies (15% for
1975 and 12Z thereafter). The price escalation contingency of about 13'Y for
consulting services has been estim-ated on the basis of a yearly increase of
8/'.  Thle price escalation contingencies have been estimated from tihe time of
negotiations until completion of construction (late 1978).
4.12      Assuming that construction would be carried out by foreign firms
subcontracting part of the works to local firms (para. 4.15), the foreign
exchange component has been estimated by the consultants Louis i,erger-SAE at
70%; in view of the lack of construction resources, this is considered reason-
able. The foreign cost of consulting services is estimated at 80%, based on
experience with similar services in Paraguay.
4.13      Local costs will be met by the Government, and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that adequate funds will be provided to meet the
local costs.



-16-
O Million            US$ million equiv.    For0ign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  zxchange
1. Construction and Reconstruction
fr Roads
(a)  incarnacion-Pirapo               340.2   793.8  1,134.0    2.70    6.30    9.00    70
(b)  Mbocayaty-Col. Indep.            113.4   264.6    378.0    0.90    2.10    3.00    70
Sub-Total    3    1,058.4  1,512.0    3.60   8       40_  12.00
2.  Rgt-of-Way                             37.8    -         37.8    0.30      -      0.30
3.  Purchase of Spare Parts,
Tires and Batteries for
Maintenance 1,quipm'nt                  -     144.9    144.9      -       1.15    1.15   100
h.  Consulting Services
(a)  For supervision of
construction of roads
under 1 above                     25.2   126.0    151.2    0.20    1.00    1.20    80
(b)  For extension of the present
maintenance assistance             5.0    20.2     25.2    0.o4    0.16    0.20    80
(c)  For a study of future
maintenance needs                  5.0    20.?      25.2    0.o4    0.16    0.20    80
(d)  Technical assistance for:
Transport Planning and
Training abroad of local
personnel                         10.1    40.3      50.4    0.08    0.32    O.Lh()   Bo
(e) Aid to local construction
industry                           -      12.6     12.6      -      0.10    0.10   100
Sub-Total   1573   219.3    264.    0.36   -l.T        2.10
5. Cont.ingencies
Physical (10% of Item I)               45.4   105.8    151.2    0.36    0.84    1.20
Escalation:
25% of Item 1                   108.3   269.7    378.0    0.86    2.14    3.00
13% of Item 4                      2.9    29.0      31.5    0.02    0.23    0.25
Sub-Total  156.5  720        560.7    l1.24  3.21           
Totals  692.9 1,8?7.1  2,520.0    5.50   14.50   20.00    72%



- 17
4.14      For civil works, disbursements will be made on the basis of 100%
of the actual foreign exchange costs and 33% of local costs (representing to-
gether the foreign exchange component, which has been estimated at 70% of total
civil works costs of the project). The schedule of estimated disbursements is
given in Annex 2. For spare parts, tires and batteries, and for consulting
services, disbursements will be made for the actual foreign exchange costs. Any
funds remaining in the loan account after the project lhas been completed will
either be used for additional consulting services, studies or items for high-
way maintenance, or will be cancelled.
C.   Execution
4.15      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the MOPC
through DGV. The possibility of breaking down project works into units attrac-
tive to local contractors was considered; however, the limited capacity of the
few local firms would make it necessary to subdivide the works into too many
small units, leading to uneconomic and inefficient administration of project
works. To enhance competition among foreign firms, it is proposed, therefore,
that, for the Encarnacion-Hohenau-Pirapo road, works should be divided into two
sections (Encarnacion-Hohenau and Hohenau-Pirapo). Prequalified bidders would
submit bids for each of the two sections separately or as a package for both
sections. Bids for the Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road would be submitted
for the whole road.  Local contractors are expected to participate through sub-
contracting to larger foreign firms, as has been the case in previous Bank
highway projects. The proposed highways cross some agricultural areas, but
no delays are foreseen in acquiring the land. Works are expected to start by
mid-1975 and be completed by late 1978. The bidding and construction schedule
was agreed during negotiations.
4.16      Construction contracts will be awarded on a unit price basis after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank's "Guidelines".
These procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.17      Contracts for the Durchase of groups of spare parts for the main-
tenance equipment financed under Loan 652-PA, involving expenditures up to
USS3O,OO0 for each group, may be awarded directly to the dealers of the equip-
ment.  The procurement of tires and batteries will be made after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines".
4.18      Consultants selected in accordance with Bank procedures will assist
GCV in prequalifying bidders and in evaluating bids, and will supervise con-.
struction. Selection procedures were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.19      For the assistance in highway maintenance, MOPC proposes to engage
the consultants Roy Jorgensen-Technipar who are satisfactorily carrying out
such assistance for tile current maintenance program (Loan 652-PA, para. 3.20);
for the study to he carried out to determine future highway maintenance require-
ments (para 3.21), riOPC proposes to engage the same joint venture of
Roy Jorgensen-Tecnipar, which is well acquainted with the country's needs.
The tiank has agreed in principle to MOPC's proposals.



- 18 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The project roads (Encarnacion-Hohenau-Pirapo, 76 km, and ?4bocayaty-
Colonia Independencia, 26 km) are located in the "Triangulo" area of south-
eastern Paraguay which, although it occupies only 8% of the total area of the
country, has 80% of the population and provides a like proportion of GNP,
mainly from agriculture. Improvement of the roads can be expected to produce
benefits by:
(a) reducing operating costs to road users and providing all-weather
service;
(b)  reducing road maintenance costs; and
(c) facilitating the full development of, and access to, rich new
agricultural and forested areas.
B.   Description of the Roads and the Areas They Serve
Encarnacion-Hohenau-Pirapo Road
5.02      The proposed project road will improve and shorten a poor gravel
road between an area of rich agricultural and forest resources and the Parana
River port of Encarnacion, Paraguay's second largest city (population about
55,000) and a major transport center. The road will be the first section of
the proposed link between Encarnacion and Puerto Presidente Stroessner; when
this link is completed, the "Triangulo' area would have paved roads on all
three sides.
5.03      The area along this project road is made up of small population
ceniters and colonies witlh a total population of about 50,000 inhabitants.
Some of these colonies were settled by German immigrants during the first half
of this century, but there are also new colonies of Japanese immigrants in the
area. These Japanese colonies are among the more prosperous in Paraguay:
their level of technology is high, their organization into cooperatives is
efficient, and financial assistance for agriculture and feeder road develop-
ment is available through a fund provided by the Government of Japan.  Dev-
elopable land is now becoming scarce in the Encarnacion-Hohenau area of the
road, but along the Hohenau-Pirapo section, which would be served by the
project road, and even beyond Pirapo, some good land is still available to
attract new settlers.
5.04      Aniong the wide range of crops grown in the area are cotton, corn,
citrus, yucca, tung, and soybeans; the latter two are processed locally at in-
dustrial plants located close to Hohenau, and in Pirapo and Encarnacion. Sur-
plus production from the area is either marketed in Encarnacion or exported



- 19 _
to Japan; the production transported over the project road to these outlets
amounts to more than 100,000 tons annually. Livestock development in the area
has been slow; the 1968 livestock population in the entire area was only about
27,000 cows and 58,000 pigs.
5.05      In recent years, the economy has benefitted appreciably from tourism,
and the project road provides access to Jesuit ruins which are of tourist
interest. The development of both tourism and agriculture has been slowed
down, however, partly because of the high vehicle operation costs on the
existing roads, which are generally in very poor condition (the roads have to
be closed for a total of about 50 days per year following heavy rains).
Mbocavaty-Colonia Independencia Road
5.06      This project road will improve a very poor, frequently flooded
earth road that connects an important agricultural area to a previously Bank-
financed road (Loan 443-PA) linking Villarica (population about 42,000) and
Coronel Oviedo (population about 68,000) to Asuncion.
5.07      This area is also made up of small population centers and colonies
with a total population of about 32,000 inhabitants. Most of these colonies
were settled by Germans in the early 1920's, but foreign immigration has
ceased, and the settlers coming into the area at present are native-born
Paraguayans. The settlement area has expanded beyond Colonia Independencia,
and some land from timber holdings is now open for settlement. There is still
virgin land available, thus allowing for increased growth and encouraging
additional immigration into the zone. Because of these factors, the consul-
tants (Louis Berger) have estimated that commodity tonnages could double in
ten years from some 70,000 m tons to 140,000 m tons.
5.08      Grapes, verba mate and sugar cane are among the more important crops.
Processing plants within the area produce processed sugar, alcohol, rum, syrup,
mandioca flour and toasted yerba mate, and the wineries bottle more than
5,500,000 liters per year. Poultry farming is also important, and much of the
local production of chicken and eggs is marketed in Asuncion and Villarica.
C.   Traffic
5.09      In 1969, the consultants (Louis Berger, USA/SAE, Argentina) esta-
blished an ADT of about 200 vehicles on the Encarnacion-Hohenau section (40.5
km) and 226 on the Hohenau-Pirapo section (48.8 km) of the road, of which
about 35% were trucks. The Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road at that time
had 74 ADT to Naville (the first 8.2 km) and 57 ADT after Naville to Colonia
Independencia (15.8 km); about 48% of the vehicles were trucks. By 1973,
traffic counts indicated that traffic had grown over 18% p.a. on the
Encarnacion-Hohenau section; some 2% p.a. on the Hohenau-Pirapo section; over
22% p.a. on the Mbocayaty-Naville section; and 19% p.a. on the Naville-Colonia
Independencia section (Table 9).  Traffic growth on these sections (except
Hohenau-Pirapo), compared to the overall country estimated average of 8%-15%,
has been high (para. 3.04).



- 20 -
5.10      However, ADT declined in 1974 on three road sections from the
counts taken in 1973 (Table 9). Only the Encarnacion-Hohenau section showed
an increase, some 9%. The traffic from Hohenau to Pirapo dropped 18% from
the previous year; from Mbocayaty to Naville, 4%; and from Naville to Colonia
Independencia, 5%. The large drop in traffic on the Hohenau-Pirapo section
is due to a combination of a decrease in demand for tung oil (one of the area's
major commodities) and an increase in fuel prices. All sections showed a rise
in bus and truck traffic, which now represents over 65% of total traffic.;
These percentage declines in traffic indicate a fairly inelastic demand for
transport when compared to increases in fuel prices in January 1974 of up to
92%. Because of the high price increases in fuel and the uncertainty of the
need for short term price increases, traffic growth from 1974 to 1978, the
year of the roads' openings, is conservatively expected to increase 25% less
per annum than the previous trend data (1969-1973) for these sections show.
After 1978, the annual rate of growth is conservatively estimated to grow, for
cars, at 5.4%' p.a.: buses at 3.5% p.a.; and trucks at 6.0% p.a.  This analysis
includes also generated traffic estimated at 15% of normal traffic for trucks,
30% for buses, and 5% for passenger cars in the fourth year of opening of the
new road on the basis of experience with new roads built in the country and
the recent fuel price increases. These, again, are conservative values in
view of the considerable improvement to be effected on the roads and the dev-
elopmental effects that these improvements are likely to generate, particularly
in agriculture and tourism. A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to
measure the effect of generated traffic on the economic results (Table 11 and
para 5.15).
n.   Benefits from the Project
5.11      The main and immediate source of readily quantifiable project bene-
fits will he: (a) a substantial reduction in unit vehicle operating costs due
to the provision of paved roads (Table 10) and a distance savings of 19.2 km
on the Encarnacion-Pirapo road for normal and generated traffic; and (b) road
maintenance savings. Since the public transport industries are competitive,
benefits from the proposed project improvements would be passed to farmers,
manufacturers, consumers and passengers.
5.12      Developmental effects of the proposed road have been considered in
quantifying induced traffic.  The new roads will stimulate the colonization
and development of areas beyond the project roads by reducing the passenger and
freight costs to and from those areas and by providing shorter, all-weather
roads. However, additional highways as well as other investments will be
required in these regions to open them up completely and to develop them fully.
Other quantifiable benefits accruing to the project roads are the savings
in maintenance costs for the proposed paved roads as compared to those for
the existing ones.
5.13      Further benefits can be attributed to the project roads -- for
example, time savings for passengers on business and other trips, the possibil-
itv of using larger and heavier cargo vehicles as a result of better road
conditions, reduced spoilage of agricultural products, and increased comfort
to road users. These benefits have not been quantified, however, so that, to
this extent, the economic returns are conservative.



- 21 -
E.   Economic Evaluation
5.14      The estimated net benefits discounted over a 20-year economic life
give a value for the economic return of 21% for the Encarnacion-Hohenau road
section, 29% for the Hohenau-Pirapo section, 17% for the Mbocayaty section
and 11% for the Naville-Colonia Independencia section (Table 11), with a
weighted average of 21% for the project as a whole. All road sections, except
Naville-Colonia Independencia, have first year returns over 10% (using a dis-
count rate of 10%). The economic return for the proposed Naville-Colonia
Independencia road is marginal. This is caused in part by high construction
costs due to the substantial earthworks required to build the road above
flood level to ensure all-weather access to the region. In the past, the
road has been closed to traffic over 70 days p.a. with duration of closures
up to three days. Although quantifiable costs for these closures with regard
to vehicle costs and operators' time have been considered in the analysis, it
is not possible to quantify the adverse effects on the people in the region
served nor the loss of production caused by them.
5.15      Sensitivity tests applied to the economic analysis assumed an increase
in construction costs of 25%, variations in vehicle operating cost savings, and
a reduction to zero for the amount of generated traffic. The economic returns
using these variations range from 20% to 29% for the Encarnacion-Pirapo road
and 10% to 16% for the Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia road. These sensitivity
tests indicate that the economic feasibility of the proposed project roads re-
mains within acceptable limits.
F.   Other Project Elements
5.16      Benefits were not quantified for the purchase of spare parts.  They
are considered justified for the necessary improvement and maintenance of the
highway network.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  Providing financing for the operation and staffing of OCIPT
(nara 2.16);
(b)  Strengthening DGV to cope with the increased workload
(para 3.11);
(c)  Strengthening the Highway Maintenance Department to take
over all maintenance operations within a two-year period
(para 3.20); and



- 22 -
(d) Increasing of salary scales and other incentives for DGV
personnel in order to permit the recruitment of suitably
qualified staff and to reduce the dropout rate (para 3.22).
6.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for Bank lending in
a total amount of US$14.5 million equivalent.  An appropriate loan term
would be 25 years, including a five-year period of grace.
November 25, 1974



TABLE 1
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PCAL Railway - Freight and Passenger Traffic - 1950-1973
Year                         Freight                Passengers
('000 tons)                (tO00)
1950                          175                      2,028
1955                          121                     1,280
1960                           86                        817
1965                           94                        415
1966                           78                        176
1967                           74                        127
1968                           95                        219
1969                          114                        227
1970                          127                        195
1971                          121                        192
1972                          161                        201
1973                          132                        203
Note:  Recent increases in freight traffic have been caused mainly
by tariff reductions.
Source: Central Planning Office and PCAL Railway, March 1974.
August 1974



TABLE 2
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network - 1950-1973
(in kilometers)
Year              Paved             Gravel         Earth        Total
1950                 88              474             288          850
1960                194              653           1,318        2,165
1965                470               963          3,234        4,667
1966                525               997          3,934        5,456
1967                577               834          4,371        5,782
1968                687               724          4,756        6,167
1969                810              601           4,898        6,309
1970                817               594          4,919        6,330
1971                832               583          4,970        6,385
1972                842              578           5,005        6,425
1973                851              601           5,050        6,502
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC), March 1974.
August 1974



.  .--..-  .....  *.  .   I....              ~~~~~PAR-AGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT 
Vehicle Registration in the Country
1970
R~MJLR -, SMALL
DEPARTAMENT            CARS        JEEPS  S4ALL TRUCKS    REGULAR                  TRUCKS    TOTAL
-             I            ~~~~~~~~~~~~BUS5ES   .BUSESRCS      OA
Concepc1i6n                       29'.      44           62            5        -             53         193
San Pedro                          71       23           so50          5        2             52         139
Cordillera                       108        24       1.  141          37      101            177         588
Guaira                           101        26          159           19       45            165         515
Caaquazd                          48,       24          145           23       62            149         451
Caazapg                                    ,17            19           3        5             29           78
Itapu&              , .         246    '  82            489            8       62            467        1354
Misiones            ,              9        19          111            6       15          .' 43         233
Paraquart                         81        36          139           19      103             93          471
Alto Paran&                  |    71        10            66           3       51             82          283
Central (&xcluding Asunci6n)  761           48          540          161      215            463        2188
Neembuct                   Ij  181 .  48                  59.         .9       10             58          202
Amambay                           14        53           73       ,            -             112          252
Pdte. Hayes                       18        29            69          11        7             70          204
e. Olimpo                         -         4            5                                    3           15
Total Interior                 15461       487         2127          309      681           2016        7166
Capital                     1 6852|        715   .     5724          443      625           1497       15856
TOTAL  CUNTRY                  8398      1202         7851          752     1306           3513       23022
.I.                              ',       !      .NI
Source: Integral Transport Survey 1973
June 1974    -



TABLE 4
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Oil Consution - 1965-1973
(f000 liters)
Year             Gasoline                Diesel Oil          Total
1965              51,780                   49,220           101,OO
1966             53,625                   57,140           110,765
1967              56,265                   63,470           119,735
1968              60,020                   74,900           134,920
1969              63,100                   85,780           148,880
1970              66,423                   88,370           154,793
1971              68,600                   88,000           156,600
1972              75,700                   97,370           173,070
1973              84,830                  113,520           198,350
Annual Rate of Growth
1565-10/73        6.L%                     11.0%             8.8%
1/ Decrease in diesel oil consumption in 1971 is attributable to the effect
on road transport services caused by f_oodsduring the first quarter of the
year and to the completion of important road works (Paraguari-Encarnacion).
Source: ESSO de Paraguay} March 1974
August 197h



TABLJ 5
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions - 1965-1973
(in million Guaranis)
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Construction
Total          486     402      537     720     667      278     466     258      254
Local  1/   343        146     262     326     298      184     395     132      137
Foreign-      143     256      275     394     369       94      71     126      117
Maintenance
Total           35       17      10      20      44      210     392     517      328
Local  2/      35       17      10      20      44      197     216     215      246
Foreign-       -        -       -       -        -       13     176     302       82
Administration'   23       25      23      20       24      27      31       37      43
TOTAL             $44      444     570     760      735     515     889      812     625
Local           401      158     295     366      366     40b     642      384     426
Foreign        -143     256      275     394     369      107     247     428      199
ROAD USER
CONTRIBUTIONS  686      950  1,070   1,236   1,352   1,419   1,502   1,474   1,891
(see details  Table 6)
1/ Includes financing from IBRD, USAID and IDB.
2/  Includes financing from IBRD for purchase of equipment (Loan 652-PA).
3/ All these expenditures are locally financed.
Source:    Ministry of Public Works and Communications
August 1974



TABLE 6
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HICGHWAY PROJvCT
Road User Contributions 1965-1973
(in Iril3 iouns of guarani-3)
1965    1966    1967   1968   1969   1970    1972.   1972    1973
Fuel Taxes                     198     315      1X55    552    619.   6h6      659      715     791
Road Tolls                      28      36       37     47      55     59       63       67      74
Vehic1.e Licenses               -       -        10     23      19     23       27       24      26
Tax on Sales of Vehicles        11      12       10     23      22     22       22       24      26
Import Charges on Vehicles
andl Parts                428      564     535    567    627    629       688      602      921i
Municipal Registration Fees   21        23       23     26      40     40       43      42       50
Totals   .686      950   1,070  1,238  1,382  1,419   1,502   1,474   1,891
Source: Central Planning Office
August 1974



TABLE 7
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads
Encarnacion            Mbocayaty-
Unit        Pirapo           Col. Independencia
1. Design Speed                         km/h          80                      60
2. Width of Roadway                      m             9.00                    9.00
3. Width of Surfacing   -m                            6.oo 5000
4. Width of Shoulders                    m            1.50                     1.60
5. Minimum Radius of Curvature           m          300.00                   200.00
6. Maximum GCrade                        %            6  '                     7
7. Stopping Sight Distance               m          145.00                   110.00
8. Type of Surface                            Triple bituminous    Double bituminous
surface treatment    surface treatment
9. Standard Axle Load Pavement
Design                              m tons        10                       LD
10. Bridge Design Loading                             H-20                     H-_'
1/ There is a 7% grade at one location.
Source: Consultants' Report
November 1974



T'ABLE :
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Breakdown of Construction Cost Estimates (Excluding Contingencies)
(US$)
ROADS
Encarnacion-Hohenau           Mibocayaty-Coloni1a
Pirapo                    Independenicia
2O of cost                  of cost
1. Earthworke                         3,026,000         33.6      1,378,000      45.9
2. Bridges and drainage structures   1,864,000          20.7        475,000      15.b
3. Sub-base; base and surfacing       3,406,000         37.8        808,000      26.9
4. Mobilization                         345,000          3.8        141,000        .7
5. Miscellaneous (protection works,
lane markings and other various
works)                              359,000          4.i        198.003       o.7
TOTALS          9,000,000        100.0      3.000,000    13 .0
Average Cost per km  US$             118,000                     115,000
Source: Consultants' Report and Appraisal Mission
November 1974



PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Avergae Daily Traffic Forecast on Project Roads - 1974-1997
1/       2/      2/       3/ 1
Road Section       1969     19737   197)     1978              198r                        1987                        1997
Normal  Normal  Normal  Normal   Normal Generated  Total   Normal  Generated  Total  Normal Generated Total
Encarnacion Hohenau    197      387       421     620      728       97       825    1006        132      1138    1730    224       1954
Hohenau,-Pirapo         226      240      198     203      237       30       267      329        43       372     570      71       641
Mbocayaty-Naville        74     164       158     263      307       48       355     418         65       483      703    104       807
Naville-Colonia
Indlependencia         57     126       120     198      232      34        266     318         45       363     543      76      619
Sources: 1/ Actual Traffic - Louis Berger, Inc. "Plan Tiangulo" Area
2/ Actual Traffic - Ministry of Public Works and Communications, Paraguay
3/ Mission Estimates
August 1974



PARAG^MUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs - Guaranis/km
Economic Costs (Without Taxes)
CARS                               TRUCKS                              BUSES
Paved     Gravel     &arth        Paved     Gravel      arth       Paved      Gravel      Earth
75 kph    44 kph     42 kph       57 kph    44 hkI      38 kph      64 kph    46 kph      45 kph
Running Costs
Fuel                    4.92       5.36       6.20         3.68      5.26        6.69        2.72       3.87       4-97
Lubricants               0.25      0.25       0.25         0.47      0.47        0.47        0.36       0.36        0.36
Tires                    0.13      0.25       0.L0         1.39      3.50        8.34        o.66       1.42        3.42
Washing and Gr.          0.04      0.08       0.09         0.09      0.12        0.16        0.09       0.12        0.16
Maintenance              o.48      0.57       0.84         1.39      2.22        3.61        O.ff7      0.82        1.50
Depreciation             2.09      3.05       4.22         1.62      2.51        4.00        0.59       0.91        1.46
Sub-total       7.91       9.56      12.00         8.64     14.08      23.27         4.99       7.50      11.87
Time Costs
Wages                    --        __         __           3.57      4.62        5.32        4.15       5.76        5.83
Interest                1.27       1.85       2.56         0.90      1.41        1.61        0.66       1.04        1.65
Insurance               0.62       0.92       1.28         0.45      0.70        1.11        0.32       0.51       0.82
Overhead                 --        --         0- 0.85                1.09        1.26        0.43       0.59       o.61
Sub-total       1.89      2.77        3.84        5.77       7.82       9.30         5.56       7.90       8.91
Total      9.80     12.33       15.84       14.41      21.90      32.57        ]0.55     15.40       20.78
=='= = 55S=   ====5==:=              ==S=-=='=             ==Z=' =   sC====      _=: = =
Sources: MOPC and Sociedad Argentina de Estudios (Argentina)
March 1974                                                                                                                    o



TABLE 11
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analyses of Economic Returns
Encarnacion-Pirapo           Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia
Section I   Section II              Section I   Section II
Encarnacion-  Hohenau-                Mbocayaty   Naville-
Hohenau       Pirapo      Combined   Naville   Col.-Indep. Combined
1. Best estimate                      21%           29%         24%         17%         11%        13%
2. Increase construction costs
by 25%                      18%           25%         21%         14%           9%        11%
3. Increase benefits by 25%           25%           34%         29%         21%          1h%       16%
4t. Decrease benefits by 25%          17%           24%         20%         14%           8%       10%
5. Delete generated traffic           20%           28%         23%         16%          11%       13%
Source: Mission Estimates
July 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank/IDA Projects in the Transport Sector
and other External Assistance for the Sector
Bank/IDA Projects in the Transport Sector
1.        1951:  Loan 55-PA, US$5 million.  This was basically an agricul-
tural project, but US$1 million of the loan amount was provided for equip-
ment to construct feeder roads. The equipment was utilized well, and the
project was satisfactorily completed.
2.        1961:  Credit 12-PA, US$6 million.  The project consisted of:  (a)
reconstruction and paving of the Paraguari-Encarnacion road (303 km), (b)
construction of a major bridge, (c) purchase of maintenance equipment, and
(d) preparation of a master plan for maintenance. Redesigning of the road
and bridge -- to protect them from severe floods such as those which occurred
during the final design stage in 1963 -- resulted in undue delays and higher
costs.  This, in turn, led to the need for supplementary financing which was
provided by Loan 396-PA (referred to below).
3.        1964:  Loan 396-PA, US$2.2 million.  This loan was made to cover the
cost overruns in the above project (para 2) and to finance its four-year ex-
tension to December 31, 1969. Execution was hampered by poor management of
work in the initial stages of the project, and by damages caused by further
flooding in 1965 and 1966 which again increased project costs by almost 25%.
Road works were carried out and completed by Hochtief (Germany) in early 1970.
Hochtief then made a major claim on IIOPC for US$11.1 million (its original
contract price was US$9.6 million). Supported by the project consultants,
MOPC rejected the claim, and Hochtief has appointed his arbitrator.  Since
the Government does not intend to appoint an arbitrator, Hochtief may use
other legal remedies to pursue his claim.
4.        Work on the bridge was satisfactorily completed in 1968 by Chacofi-
Albano (Argentina). Consulting services for the project works were provided
by (eotecnica (Brazil) who also helped with the purchase of maintenance equip-
ment for which US$1.1 million was allocated and disbursed from the loan and
credit. Brown and Root (US) were engaged in 1966 to prepare a master mainte-
nance plan which they made available the following year; it was only partially
implemented by 1968, primarily because of lack of sufficient equipment, funds
and personnel. The plan was updated, and a four-year program (1970-1973)
drawn up to allow for the continued improvement of maintenance operations.
bank financing for this program was provided under Highway Loan 652-PA
(para 7).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        1965:  Loan 437 PA, US$2.8 million.  The project was generally to
improve port facilities at Asuncion. Detailed engineering and construction
supervision were done initially by Thomas B. Bourne Assoc. (US), and later
by Hlenningson, Durham and Richardson (US); execution was by Empresa Brasilena
Engenheria Comercio e Industria S.A. (ECISA, Brazil).  Misunderstandings be-
tween the Government, the contractor and the consultant slowed project execu-
tion, but it was satisfactorily completed in mid-1971.
6.        1966:  Loan 443-PA, US$2.1 million.  The project provided for:
(a) the reconstruction and paving of a 43-km road section (Coronel Oviedo-
Villarica), and (b) feasibility studies of 450 km of roads in the "Plan
TrianQulo" area identified under a UNDP study (para 9), and detailed engineer-
ing of about 260 Ian of those roads with the highest priority for construction.
After considerable delay by the Government in selecting a consultant, the
studies were begun in January 1969 by Louis Berger (US) in association with
SAT (Aroentina), and feasibility studies were completed in 1970. The road
construction work was carried out by Chacofi (Argentina) and supervised by
Brown and Root (US) who designed the project road; this work was satisfac-
torily completed in October 1969.  Mainly because of the unpredictable effect
of the 1965/66 floods on subsurface soil conditions, and partly because of
inadeauate design, additional work was required which increased total project
costs by almost 25% above original estimates.
7.        1970:  Loan 652-PA, US$6.0 million. -This loan helped finance a
four year (1970-1973) highway maintenance program which is being carried out
witlh the assistance of consultants Roy Jorgenson Assoc. Inc. (US) and Tecnipar
S.R.L. (Paraguay). Some delays in execution occurred when the project en-
countered organizational and financial problems, and completion is now expected
by mid-1975. Corrective measures were taken.
8.        1974: Credit 509-PA - Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project,
US$11.0 million. This credit will support a lending program to small farmers
in three colonies located in the eastern region of Paraguay. The credit in-
cludes a strong component of roads, totalling about one-third of the total
project cost of US$15.8 million, and involves the construction of about 250 km
of earth roads, including bridges, and 60 km of all-weather roads.
Other External Assistance
(a) For MiLghEawys
9.        A UNDP grant of approximately US$600,000 equivalent financed a
study of the agricultural potential and road requirements of southeastern
Paraguay ("Plan Triangulo" area). The Bank had acted as executing agency for
this study (carried out during 1964-1967), and two US consultants (Aero Service,
and Gannett, Flemming, Corddry and Carpenter) undertook the work. About 450
km of roads were identified as needing impDrovement, and feasibility studies
and detailed engineering for some of these roads were done under the Bank's
Second Highway Project (para. 6).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       A TNDP training program begun in mid-1971 is providing technical
assistance to Paraguayan personnel working in Government transport agencies.
Also, a UNDP-financed transport survey has recommended a development program
for transport and the establishment and organization of a transport coordi-
nating agency. The transport survey also recommends a training program which
will provide local counterpart personnel to assist in its execution. The Bank
has acted as executing agency for both these programs.  Consultants selected
for the transport survey were BCEOMI-FNECOM, a French-Brazilian joint venture.
Field work on the first phase started in February 1972 and was completed in
late 1972. The final report is dated July 1973, and the Government and the
Bank have accepted its recommendations; in fact, under the present project,
the first stage of the second phase will be implemented (para. 2.16).
11.       The US Government has provided financial assistance to Paraguay
througlh the PL-480 programs of its Agency for International Development (USAID).
These programs have been directed toward the construction and improvement of
feeder roads in agricultural areas, and included the provision of construction
equipment, as well as some local currency financing. Additionally, two loans
totalling about US$10 million were made in 1960 and 1967 for the reconstruction
ana paving of the Asuncion-Puerto Presidente Stroessner road (about 330 km);
base and pavement failures in early 1967 necessitated a further loan of
US$4.7 million for rehabilitation of a 110-km section. Disagreements between
the Government and USAID on the award of contract have recently been resolved;
work started in mid-1972 and is expected to be completed by early 1975.
12.       The Canadian Government has provided assistance for highway feasi-
bility studies, with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) acting as
executing agency. These studies comprised: (a) the Trans-Chaco highway (Villa
liayes; - Filadelfia) - 425 km; (b) the access route from Asuncion to Villa
hayes; (c) the Concepcion-Pedro Juan Caballero road; and (d) construction of
a bridge over the Paraguay River.  The most important of these studies -- for
th-e Trans-Chaco hiighway -- was carried out by De Leuw Cather and Co. (Canada)
in 1968/1969, and the consultants recommended that the highway be paved. This
is to be the largest road project ever undertaken in Paraguay; its original
total cost was approximately US$34.8 million, with IDB participation of
USS26.4 million. Detailed engineering has been carried out by the consultant
Ldwards & Kelcey (US) in a joint venture with Consultec (Paraguay).  Bidding
for this project took place in January 1972; construction works started in
mid-1973, and are estimated to last about four years.
(b) For Other Transport Mlodes
13.       The Export-Import Bank provided US$1.12 million in 1956 to help
finance the construction of the runway of the international airport of
Asuncion. Thereafter, in 1968, USAID made a loan of US$4.7 million to finance
a new and larger runway.
14.       The UNDP provided US$825,300 for financing the Paraguay River
Navigability Study in 1970. The first phase of the study, which was completed
in late 1973, aims at improving the navigability of shallow water sections
between Asuncion and the junction of the Paraguay and Parana rivers.
September 1974



ANNE'X 2
PARAGUAY
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJbCT
Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                 Ciumulative Disbursement
and Semester ihding                                  at End of Semester
(US$ thousands)
1975
June 30, 1975                                               100
1976
December 31, 1975                                         1,500
,Tune 30, 1976                                            3,000
1977
December 31, 1976                                         5,000
June 30, 1977                                             7,500
1978
December 31, 1977                                         9,500
June 30, 1978                                            11,500
1979
December 31, 1975                                        13,000
TUno 30, 1979                                            14,500
1;ource: MOPC and Appraisal Mission
Assumptions: (For construction works - the main project component)
Invitation to bid: March 1975
Commencement of works:  June 1975
Completion: late 1978
August 1974



PARAGUAY
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF 1WE DIRICTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
MINISTER OF PUBLIC
WORKS AND
COMMUNICATIONS
I
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF
|HIGFHVAYS
|PROGRAMMINGM
D       E       P        A        R       T       M        E       N        T        S
EERING                   ~~~~~MAINTENANCE               EUIPMEN           ADMINISTRATION 
I              I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICTS
|            ~ ~~~D   I      V     I         S       I       O       N       S                            I
STUDIES         CONSTRUCTION         MANENC
AND            SUPERVISION         SUERISIONTR
DESIGNS          AND CONTROL 
S    E   C   T    I    ON    S                                                  S    E   C   T    I   O    N    S
4    SURVEY    l vTECHNICAL   | L       RADIO     l                       qTRANSPORTATION]       ACCOUNTING            DISTRICT 1
#    DESIGN    l  iADMINISTRATIVE|                                        4  PERSONNEL             BUDGET             DISTRICT 2
BRIDGES                                                                        WORKSHOPS          PURCHASES            DISTRTCT]
r ILF E
WAREHOUSES          PERSONNEL           DISTRICT 4
World Bank 6342 (R)



S
N Ni\
A      '
N'
N
!CNNA   7    N                    N        N                                  0
Zr                                       -         (N;                            (
>*Qfl   1T                                                       1'2                                                                   UN NI.
as                                                                           <N                             p    /                N                            S
-                                                          C'                                      N                                      N                          I
S                                                                                                                         N           N
N                                                                                                                                                            I        -
S                                                    7/N                                                                                                        I
N                                                          -
/7/                                                             N /                  N                           N'
-I

N(N                                             'F                                 /
I      -t                              NZ'
t                   N'
N  5                                                                       N
N-,
N
N7      N                                                        1
I-
N
7
/
/
,






25 88               E A ! | L  |S Ist igrr Ib ia I.,           y Esteros
BRAZIL                               VILLA HAYES   yd                                  de M L t rz                      Bae
BOLIVIA)
AREA  -     ASUNCIOt~~~~~~~                onBersardino     sloP~~~arauc ty  N
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Rc                                                                                                                       Potoe E<      1 <Qin *ca         '^ EGryt//o    it   <1
Villa Eliso           CAACUP       ~~~~~~Santa Elena
It IJAY~~~~~~~~L I"ninORNc
l   de Neembucu  SAN wIUAN BAUTIST9<_             S~~~~aurub    )                                                                                                    NANDARIAS 0  
ARGENTI                 t                                                 PARAGUARI \                   I
I                                LA                  e                   s t    IrdSQerodeencjaG
ARGENTI NA                                           Acahoy    /                A      mi   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cne  E  Garay C
ARGENTINAIostic minenuciiop,nndr on
#~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 8oluinOu Oumacu  rod                                                                                                     stu_o  or to be constructed, located1s /
GXrol.J.E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~____ DizG   F, a t           C              veI/eat  surface #red                                    in theNotrthern ReinPaoare,
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                     Trol                                                       Yb You ITacura ro  Anl gua~ry-  Scner ECCHGHWYuO(ozan 4i-A
-26,                                               D~~~~~~                             ~     ~~~~~~~ bycui3  40  rb                                                                 Ocur ndaoy Sat2dl  ui
______________Tav_i_- - - - - - - -                                                                                                -ro ds-c-
t  AYOIQS F ) 0 r $/ r a~~~MItES                                                                           Pivrs                                       e fiRILiAiY  SUiso  ealed  ngneriE                  ng
berdl                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mainyo pot
580                                         570                                             560                                              550
e3: S                                                                               <       J    )         r J                                                              ^)      Central maintenance sho
ig A R G ~~~~~~~~E Neebc                           SA  JUAN BA *Dsrc one  hp
(                     t|                 1       .L_    s   _ 1 _                      -4-  |  t RQf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nPerodeParan
z~~~~~~~~A                                      Ia lgn                                                     Ml .E PivrapOT HIGHWAY  NOECTWORK5
t0)  51t' /' . IC! iL!}'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn .t.a'l Rosa                                                 C-....... 1t1/.C I. ..  2 MAinprtigs  ProUTHeRN    REGscnscION 
l>sl                                                                                                          rcilvi-,l  Delgado r, esusiEER                    -ohinsrorsz
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi Fro                                                                                                           ConstructionQIbudre  
}  1           58                                              57o                                             56                                              55                                      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sntgoT
ro    D . z 



