Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4864-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CIHI NA
RURAL HEAL''ll AND MEDIC..L EDUCATION PROJECT
pril 13, 1984
Population, Health and Nutrition Departuent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offlcia; duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$ 1.00 = Y 2.0 (September 1983)
Y 1 = US$ 0.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CNTIC     -    Chinese National Technical Import Corporation
MCH       -    Maternal and Child Health
MOPH       -    Ministry of Public Health
NCPM       -    National Center for Preventive Medicine
RCHPS     -    Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics
SICMM     -    Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
WBLO       -    World Bank Loan Office
WHO        -    World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               People's Republic of China
Amount:                 IDA Credit:  SDR 80.2 ($85.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The project would provide for civil works,
furniture, equipment, technical assistance and
fellowships to help: (a) improve health status in
46 counties of three provinces (Heilongjiang,
Shandong and Sichuan) and cne autonomous region
(Ningxia Hui); (b) enhance the quality of education,
training and related research in the country's 13
core medical colleges and to increase these
colleges' capacity to provide continuing education
and training materials to practitioners and to
faculty of the over 100 province-level medical
colleges; and (c) develop two recently created
national institutions -- the National Center for
Preventive Medicine (NCPM) and the Research Center
for Health Planning and Statistics (RCHPS) -- and
support applied research at the Sichuan Institute
for Chinese Materia Medica (SICMM).
The main project risk is that the Ministry of Public
Health (HOPH) staff may lack the necessary
management skills and breadth of experience to carry
through proposed changes in medical education and
training and proposed creation of new institutional
capabilities. This risk is reduced, however, by
inclusion of substantial technical assistance and
overseas training, by provision for careful
selection of key project staff, and by establishment
of a project monitoring and reporting system to
allow prompt identification of potential problems.
Since the project is the first major externally-
aided activity in the sector, some degree of risk is
both appropriate and acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                       Local  Foreign  Total
(US~$ MHillion) --
A. Strengthening of Rural Health
1. Construction                                                     42.2    -       42.2
2. Equipment                                                          2.0   25.2    27.2
3.  Trainiig                                                          5.7            5.7
4.  Technical Assistance                                              0.5    -       0.5
5.  Personnel Recruitment                                            4.6    -        4.6
Subtotal A                                                      55.0   25.2    80.2
B.  Strengthening of Medical Education
1.  Construction                                                    65.8            65.8
2.  Equipment                                                       33.7   26.7    60.e'
3.  Training                                                          3.8    5.1     8.9
4.  Technical,Assistance                                              1.3    4.2     5.5
Subtotal B                                                     104.6   T6.0   140.6
C.  Strengthening Management, Evaluation and Research
1.  Construction                                                     8.6    -        8.6
2.  Equipment                                                         5.4    2.9     8.3
3.  Training                                                         0.8    2.6      3.4
4.  Technical Assistance                                             -       2.0     2.0
Subtotal C                                                      14.8    7.5    22.3
Total Baseline Costs                                                    174.4   68.7   243.1
Physical Contingencies                                           15.8    5.4    21.2
Price Contingencies                                              19.5    6.7    26.2
Total Project Costs a/                                                 209.7   80.8   290.5
Charge on Use of Foreign Capital                                32.3    -       32.3
Total Financing Required                                               242.0   80.8   322.8
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                                  4.2   80.8    85.0
Government                                                         237.8    -      237.8
Total                                                                   242.0   80.8   322.8
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY        1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Annual        15.5  28.5  22.5  12.5   4.5   1.5
Cumulative    15.5  44.0  66.5  79.0  83.5  85.0
Rate of Return:           NA
a/ Project-fiinanced goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- iii -
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary. . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
Table of Contents . . . . . . . * . . . . . . * . . * . . . iii
Basic  Data.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  vi
Definitions . . . . . . .                                   vii
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . ,                                     I                 
II.  SECTOR STATUS ANI) ISSUES
A.  Population and Health Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I
BD  Health Policies, Services and Finances ...    ......    3
Health Policies. . . .    . . .    . .    .    .        3
Health Services.. ........ . . . . . .                  5
,ealth Finances. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
C.  Sector Issues and Bank Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . .  7
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Main Features. . . . . . . . . . . . 8
B.  Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 10
Part A:  Rural Health . ,      .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  10
Part B:  Medical Education.   . * , . . . . .   . .    13
Part C:  Strengthening Management, Evaluation and
Research at the National Level . . . . . .   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
China in September 1983. The personnel involved were:  Mr. D. T. Jamison
(mission leader), Mr. D. Pearce, Dr. A. Prost, Mr. G. Sinclair and Ms. C.
H. Fogle (PHN), and Drs. J. X. Evans, J. Koplan, K. White and M. Young
(consultants).  Messrs. J. van der Gaag (DRD) and I. Porter (AEA), who
assisted in project preparation, also participated in project appraisal.



- iv -
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
C.  Procurement.  .  .  .    .   . . . . . . . o   . .  . .  . . .    22
D.  Disbursements. . * . . . .  . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
E.  Accounts and Audits. . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project Organization . . a . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .    25
3.  Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
C.  Technical Assistance and Overseas Fellowships. . . . . .    27
D.  Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    27
B.  Project Risks. . . . ..  .                . . . . . . .  . .    28
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . .    28
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost and Finance by Subcomponent .  . . . . .  .        30
2.  Documents Available in Project File. . . . . . . . . . .    32
3.  Project Implementation Schedule .   . . . . . . . . . .  .    34
4.  Medical Education:  Background Data for Thirteen Medical
Colleges    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  35
5.  Rural Health:  Background Data for Participating Provinces
and Counties . . . .  . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  .    45
6.  Project Cost Tables . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .    62



CHARTS
1. organization Plan of the Ministry of Public Health
?.  Organization of Health and Birth Planning Services
MAPS
- Rural Health and Medical Education Project (IBRD 17638RI)
- HeilongJiang Province (IBRD 17043)
- N4ngxia Hui Autonomous Region (IBRD 17046)
- Shandong Province (IBRD 17044)
- Sichuan Province (IBRD 17045)



- vi -
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (million km2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9.6
Total population (mid-1982 in mnilLions) . . . . . . , . . .  1,008
Annual rate of natural increase (%) . . . . . . . . . . . .      1.3
Projected population for year 2000 (in millions) . . . . . .  1,198
Density per km2 (mid-1982). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a    103
Density per km2 of a-ricultural land (mid-1982) . . . . . .    308
Per capita GNP (1981) (in US$). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    300
Crude birth rate (1981) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Crude death rate (1981) . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Life expectancy at birth (1982) (years) . . . . . . . . . .     69
Infant mortality rate (1982). . . . . . . . . .  a .  * * . .   45
Child death rate (1981) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
Urban population as percentage
of total population (1982).  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20.6
Adult literacy rate (1981). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     69
Population per doctor of western medicine (1980). . . . . .   1,920
Population per nursing person (1980). . . . .     . . . .   1,890
Nutrition (1980-1982)
Calorie intake as percentage of
requirements.... .     .    . .  *   . . .  .  . . .  . . .   118%
Per capita protein intake (g/day)  . . . . . . . . . . .     66



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy:                The percentage of persona aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate:          Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1000
children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate:              Number of live births per year per 1000
people.
Crude Death Rate:              Number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
Dependency Ratio:              Ratio of population 14 years or under and 65
or over, to population aged 15 to 64 years,
multiplied by 100. Indicates proportion that
needs to be economically supported.
Incidence Rate:               The number of persons contracting a disease as
a proportion of the population at risk, per
unit of time usually expressed per 1000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate:        Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per 1000
live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:    Indicates the number of years a new-born child
would live if subject to the mortality risks
prevailing for the cross-section of population
at time of birth.
Maternal 'Mortality Rate:      Number of maternal deaths per 1000 births in a
given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Neo-Natal Mortality Rate:    The number of deaths of infants under 28 days
of age in a given year per 1000 live births
that year.



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
r. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since the early 1950s, China has made remarkable progress in
improving the health and nutrition status of its people. The multiple
factors contributing to this achievement -- which include increased and
more equitable distribution of food, improved water supply and sanitation,
a relatively high literacy rate and widespread advances in the overall
level of education -- together with the health system's strong emphasis on
prevention, community mobilization and financing, and paramedical
fieldworkers (barefoot doctors) -- have influenced the thinking of health
professionals throughout the developing world. Indeed, the
WHO/UNICEF-sponsored Declaration of Alma Ata on Primary Health Care (1978)
was partly inspired by the Chinese experience. However, China's health
care system has now entered a period of transition; zxperience to date is
being evaluated and the changing epidemiological profile and emerging
health problems of the 1980s and beyond are beginning to be addressed.
Against this background, a Bank health sector mission visited China in
September/October 1982; its report, entitled "The Health Sector in China",
(Report No. 4664-CHA, dated April 13, 1984) is available separately.
1.02      During the above mission the government requested IDA assistance
for two major activities. In the general area of health services, the
requested assistance was for upgrading rural health care services in three
provinces and one autonomous region; and in the area of health manpower
development, the requested assistance wa's to help enhance the quality of
medical education in thirteen core medical colleges. The government also
sought assistance for three small institutional development components that
would strengthen national management and evaluation capacity in the health
sector: the recently established National Center for Preventive Medicine;
the Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics; and the Sichuan
Institute for Chinese Materia Medica. After revision in light of the
findings of the health sector mission, these five proposals were integrated
into a single health project, which was then prepared jointly by the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and three multi- disciplinary IDA project
preparation teams in March, April and June/July 1983.
II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Population and Health Status 1/
2.01      Population.  China's census of June 30, 1982, recorded a
population of 1008 million; this exceeds by 73 percent the total recorded
in the first census, conducted in 1953. The population growth rate in the
intervening 29 years was thus 1.9 percent per annum. Trends in total
fertility and mortality during this period have, however, been far from
1/ All data cited in this report are drawn from Report No. 4664-CHA, "The
Health Sector in China."



- 2 -
steady. Birth rates were around 45 per 1000 in the mid-1950s, implying a
total fertility rate of about b.5. The Great Leap Forward of 1958 was then
followed by famine and demographic catastrophe:  mortality rose sharply
around 1960 and the birth rate pluulged, resulting in a population loss of
more than I percent.  FolLowing thte 1959-62 famine, the birth rate
surpassed the 1950s level and then declined slowly until the end of the
decade. Strong fertility limitation policies were seriously implemenited
beginning in the early 1970s, and the drop in fertility since 1970 has been
remarkable, with the total fertility rate declining to about 2.5 by 1980.
Despite introduction of even stronger efforts to limit fertility in 1980
(the 'one-child family' policy), the total fertility rate rose to 2.8 in
1981. The population growth rate rose to about 1.3 percent per annum in
1981 from its low in the late 19708 of just over 1 percent per annum; this
was partially a result of the increase in total fertility just noted and
partially the result of an unusually large cohort reaching marriage age.
The Government population policy is to limit population size to 1,200
million in the year 2000.  This objective is expected to be achieved under
current policies and is reflected in Bank population projections.
2.02      Health.  Although few good data exist for the early 1950s, it is
evident that health conditions in China have improved enormously and are
now significantly better than in most low-income developing countries.
Life expectancy at birth is estimated at 64 years in 1975-80, compared with
34 years in 3950-55; infant mortality is estimated to have been 65 per
thou,and live births in 1975-80 compared with 235 in 1950-55. However,
these national averages mask wide variations, with life expectancy higher
in the more heavily populated and advanced northeastern provinces and
coastal areas than in inland and border regions. In the mid-1970s, life
expectancy in urban areas probably exceeded that in rural areas by 12-17
years and, although more recent estimates are unavailable, important
rural-urban differences almost certainly persist.
2.03      Concerning overall trends in mortality and morbidity, many once
important communicable diseases such as smallpox, cholera, plague and Kala
Azar have been virtually eradicated; diphtheria and poliomyelitis have been
almost eliminated; and the incidence of other infective and parasitic
diseases has been reduced and controlled.  However, continuing deficiencies
in hygiene and human waste treatment are indicated by the persistence of
diseases such as hepatitis and dysentery. Malaria and schistosomiasis
remain problems and their continued control is a public health priority.
Tuberculosis, the main cause of death in 1949, still affects nearly 1% of
the population and remains a major problem. Chronic bronchitis is reported
in 3.5% of the population, reflecting problems of smoking and air
pollution. In more typical low-income countries, acute respiratory and
digestive system diseases account for a much higher proportion of all
deaths. In China, however, as in the industrialized countries, cancer and
circulatory system diseases account for most deaths.  Both because of
increasing prevalence of dietary and behavioral patterns leading to chronic
disease and because of an inevitable aging of the population, morbidity and
mortality due to chronic disease can be expected to become much more
frequent; by a conservative estimate, to take one example, the number of
cases of hypertension can be expected to more than double between 1980 and
2010. China's transition in disease profile is still in progress,
nonetheless, and health conditions in poorer parts of China probably are



now much as they were twenty years ago in the presently more advanced
areas. The above trends in overall mortality and morbidity indicate an
emerging epidemiological nrofile increasingly comparable to that of higher
income countries, as documented in Table I1.1, which shows the percentage
of deaths due to various causes.
Table II. 1:  PRINCIPAL CAUSE OF DEATH, URBAN AND RURAL AREAS 1980
Percent of all Deaths
Disease                                      In Urban Areas       In Rural Areas
Heart disease                                       23                   26
Cerebrovascular disease (stroke)                    23                   17
Cancer                                              20                   15
Acute respiratory disorders
(excluding tuberculosis)                          9                    12
Digestive disorders                                 4                     5
Tuberculosis                                         2                    3
Other                                               19                   22
B.  Health Policies, Services and Finances
Health Policies
2.04      China's progress in improving the health status of its people is
attributable partly to the effectiveness of its health care del:very system
and partly to the policies on which it is based. In this connection, the
following basic elements of China's health policies during the last two
decades stand out.  First, more than most low-income countries, China has
emphasized preventive over curative services. Major efforts were mounted
after 1949 to improve environmental sanitation, vaccinate against 2/ and
cure infectious diseases, and to control the vectors of the main parasitic
diseases.  Mass mobilization, organized through the National Patriotic
Health Campaign Committee, linked to the politico-administrative system
from the national to the grass-roots levels and supported by the key
county-level sanitation and epidemic prevention stations, played a
principal role in the effectiveness of these efforts. Second, China
pioneered the development of community-financed auxiliary health workers --
subsequently known as barefoot doctors -- as a logical counterpart to the
emphasis on prevention and, more importantly, as the only practicable means
at hand, given the lack of financial resources, to provide basic curative
services in the rural areas. Third, and consistent with the post-1949
priority given to poverty reduction, mainly through rural development and
the provision of basic social services, a substantial volume of financial
resources was mobilized - amounting at present to over 3% of GDP. As a
result, the resources available for health care, particularly in poor
2/ China's vaccination program addresses all six diseases on the
UNICEF/WHO list for the 'expanded program of immnunization' and, in
addition, provides for immunization against encephalitis B. While the
vaccination program has been generally succcssful, problems remain hoth
with logistics in rural areas and with vaccine quality.



- 4 -
areas, is significantly higher than in comparable areas of most low-income
countries. Fourth, China's policies have always reached well beyond the
health system itself, with improved nutrition, water supply and sanitation,
education and reduced fertility being related and independently important
policy goals; and, underlying this multisectora. approach, the unique
political will and administrative capability of the Chinese economic system
have, despite occasional setbacks, been crucial to its effectiveness.
Finally, Chinese health policy appears to have combined successfully a
specific emphasis on categorical (or vertical) disease prevention programs
with coordinated administration and implementation through commune- and
county-level service delivery bystems -- achieving thereby a functional
integration of policy and practice that is normally very difficult and, in
many countries, has proven impossible.
2.05      Current health policy priorities are characterized by continuity
with past efforts. According to the MOPH and in line with the government's
overall eightfold policy in the readjutstment of the national economy,
medium-term health policy objectives are as follows:
(a) to implement the existing policy of putting prevention first,
specifically strengthening anti-epidemic activities and
conducting patriotic health campaigns;
(b) to strengthen and consolidate rural health services,
specifically upgrading county-level health institutions,
training barefoot doctors and implementing the cooperative
health insurance system;
(c) to improve traditional Chinese medicine and the integration
of Chinese and western methods of health care;
(d) to provide support to the family planning policy and to
maternal and child health services;
(e) to intensify the training of health service professionals and
research in medical care and to strengthen the training of
technical and administrative personnel;
(f) to improve the efficiency and technical and administrative
management of the health delivery system;
(g) to ensure the appropriate use of pharmaceuticals and the
improvement of their quality, production and distribution;
and
(h) to strengthen the leadership of the party in the health
sector.
Explicit translation of these overall national health policy goals into
operational objectives is limited, at the MOPH level, to targets in the
Sixth Plan (1981-85) for increases in the number of physicians and hospital
beds. Hnowever, preliminary operational policies and programs for rural
health service delivery and ior health manpower development have been
defined and are discussed below.



- 5 -
2.06       Rural Health.  The centerpiece of rural health policy is a
national program, to be completed by the year 2000, to upgrade the health
facilities of all the country's 2100 counties. The first phase of this
program aims to have completed the upgrading of one-third of all counties
by 1987; this more immediate goal is known as the 'one-third county
program'. External assistance (from the UNO'P, executed by WHO) has
assisted with developments in three pilot counties.
2.07      The major foci of the county upgrading programs are to strengthen
the four county-level health institutions -- the general hospital, the
sanitation and epidemic prevention center, the MCH center and the training
center -- and to assist in strengthening selected commune health centers,
These 'major commune health centers' are intended to become an intermediate
level of referral between regular county health centers and county
hospitals; by having them be competent to handle moderately complicated
cases, access to quality health care would become much more widely
distributed and accessible in rural areas than it now is.
2.08      Medical Education.  In the 1980s, priority in the medical
colleges will be given to consolidation rather than growth, improving the
quality of education and research, rttraining staff to repair the damage of
the cultural revolution, and building up teaching and research staff
through postgraduate training. There are 92 faculties of western medicine
in the medical colleges, and three new faculties are being established.
In addition to regular enrollment, these faculties have the heavy burden of
retraining the large number of doctors who graduated during the cultural
revolution. An important objective of the MOPH is to reduce the emphasis
on factual learning in the curriculum and to strengthen the teaching of
biomedical and epidemiological concepts and their application in problem-
solving. This is to be done both through the development of appropriate
teaching materials and through the structure of the examination system.
2.09       In terms of higher-level manpower development, the MOPH estimates
that the number of doctors (western and traditional) is currently 0.8 per
1,000 population, and that this ratio can be maintained during the 1980s
without increasing medical college enrollment beyond what will result from
the current level of about 30,000 new admissions each year. Meeting a
target of 1 doctor per thousand population, indicated as desirable by
Ministry officials, would require increasing medical college output by
12,000 per year to over 40,000, or increasing the rate of upgrading of
assistant doctors, which is important particularly to complement the
strategy of strengthening major commune health centers. An output of
40,000 would also be roughly consistent with the 6th Plan's target of
increasing the total number of doctors by 180,000 during the Plan period.
Thus some auantitative expansion of high-level manpower is envisioned, but
the numbers involved are relatively limited.  Detailed analysis by MOPH (to
be supported in part by this project) will be initiated to review
quantitative objectives for health manpower at all levels in light of the
changing patterns of health needs of the population.
Health Services
2.10      The core of China's health care services is its rural health
system, which is organized on three levels: the county, the commune and the



brigade. At the apex are the approximately 2,100 counties, which each have
a county hospital, a sanitation and epidemic prevention station, an MCH
clinic, and a health personnel training center (see Chart 2). County
facilities are funded by the government through the province and county
health bureaus, which are responsible for the overall direction and,
through the above county level units, for the technical support and
supervision of all facilities and services througho'it the county. Below
that are health centers at the commune level; in 1981, some 55,000 or 90%
of all communes had such centers, averaging about 14 beds, which are
responsible for routine curative services, preventive activities and family
planning. Two thirds of these centers were established by the communn!s
themselves and the operations of all are financed by a combinatioin of
county and provincial subsidies (usually direct payment of health personnel
salaries and benefits) and user fees (for drugs and pharmaceuticals).  At
the brigade level, almost all the approximately 715,000 brigades have
either a health station with one or two barefoot doctors, who provides care
to the ten or so production teams (averaging 200-800 people) that make up
each brigade. Many brigade-level services have been financed by
cooperative health insurance schemes, which are in turn funded jointly by
annual prepayments of individual members and by annual appropriations from
the brigades' welfare funds. However, the number of brigades having
cooperative health insurance schemes has dropped significantly, from about
571,000 (85%) in 1975 to about 416,000 (58%) in 1981, owing to a weakening
ol the fiscal position of brigades and communes that has resulted from
emphasis on the household as the farm production unit under the 'economic
responsibility system'.
2.11      Urban health care is organized in a similar way, with important
differences in sources and methods of funding, and with 'lane' and 'street'
health posts replacing brigade and commune level facilities in Lbe referral
system. Employees of state enterprises receive free health care at their
places of work or in nearby county or municipal hospitals. State
enterprise (e.g. factory) health facilities, which accounted for about 25%
of total health expenditures in 1981, are administratively responsible to
the enterprise concerned, with minimal technical support and supervision
from the provincial or county health bureau.
2.12      At the national level, the MOPX supervises health care activities
of the provincial health bureaus. MOPH has broad responsibility for health
policy, for preparation of an annual plan, and for coordination with
related ministries and agencies, including the State Pharmaceutical
Administration, which is responsible for production of pharmaceuticals and
medical equipment. In addition, MOPH is directly responsible for a major
hospital, for thirteen core medical colleges, for health statistics, for
the National Center for Preventive Medicine, for vaccine production and for
medical research. Pharmaceuticals are effectively distributed nationwide
by the China National Drug Corporation, under the Pharmaceutical
Administration, through 5,500 wholesale and over 50,000 retail outlets.
Health Finances
2.13      China is now spending an estimated 3.3% of GDP on health services
(1981), which is relatively high compared with other low-income countries.
In 1981, total health expenditures were estimated at US$7.50 per capita, of



- 7 -
which about $7.15 (95%) was for recurrent and $0.35 for capital
expenditures. Of the $7.15 per capita recurrent expenditures, the main
revenue sources were threefold: individual payment for drugs and services
(32X), enterprise insurance schemes (31%), and the government (30%); the
main service delivery providers were the rural collective health system
(40%); the government (32%) and state enterprises (25%), with medical
education and private practice accounting for the balance. The main
categories of expenditure were for drugs and pharmaceuticals, 58% (of which
Western medicjnes accounted for 84%), salaries for 20%, and hospital
facilities for 13%. Hospitals and other service providers thus recover the
bulk of their costs (i.e. the 70% not provided through the government
budget).
2.14      A high proportion of total health expenditure is mediated through
insurance (labor and rural collective) schemes of various kinds, with
perhaps only a third of the population, almost all in rural areas,
uninsured.  Urban expenditure is estimated at about $16.50 per capita, more
than twice thne national average and almost four times the estimated $4.50
per capita rural expenditure; more significantly, government subsidies in
urban areas are estimated to be almost ten times those for rural areas,
owing partly to the effect of its insurance scheme for government
employees, teachers and students and partly to that of the labor insurance
schemes of state enterprises. In rural areas, cooperative insurance
schemes provide limited pooling of risk among production brigades and
brigade teams but, since these schemes are entirely financed out of
whatever local resources are available, there is no scope for
redistributive subsidies from richer to poorer communities. Moreover,
early evidence suggests that the economic responsibility system, which is
decentralizing agricultural decision-making and incentives to the household
level, has affected in some provinces the collective insurance and labor
mobilization schemes that, despice their inadequacies, have hitherto
financed the preventive activities, including indirectly the costs of the
barefoot doctors, so crucial to China's improved public health.
C. Sector Issues and Bank Objectives
2.15      The two main themes emerging from the above summary of progress
to date in China's health sector, discussed in more detail in the sector
report, are: first, its success in increasing overall life expectancy and
in reducing morbidity from communicable diseases; and second, the emergence
of an epidemiological transition in which circulatory diseases and cancer
are becoming the most common causes of death. However, given the country's
size and population, it is not surprising that the success in improving
overall health status has been uneven: while health conditions in most
urban and in some rural areas are quite satisfactory by any reasonable
standard, those in many rural areas are not; and the reasons for this
unevenness--the poverty and remoteness of the areas, and their inadequate
economic and social infrastructure--means that improving health conditions
will be neither easy nor inexpensive. In addition, the emerging pattern of
chronic diseases, very much like that of the industrialized countries,
typically generates demands for treatment and cure by patients and
physicians alike that often involve substantial expenditures with only
modest health impact. In the circumstances, China's health sector now
faces two priority issues: (i) that of how to maintain the gains already



- 8 -
made in large parts of the country, to extend them to presently underserved
areas, and to strengthen the basic health infrastructure; and (ii) that of
how to identify and implement affordable strategies for dealing with
chronic diseases that combine prevention, cost-effective treatment,
rehabilitation and humane care. The first of these issues concerns mainly
the future development, including the financing, of the rural health care
delivery system; the MOPH places high priority on this point.
2.16      The second set of issues raises a new and complicated set of
problems for the MOPE. Prevention of chronic diseases is far more
difficult (and costly) than is prevention of communicable disease, and the
approaches developed for curative care in industrialized countries have
costs that are simply unaffordable in a country at the level of income
China can expect to attain in the next few decades. A high premium must
therefore be placed on strengthening the capacity for the system to develop
innovative strategies for handling the emerging pattern of diseases and for
strengthening, at all levels, general management capability and,
particularly, the capacity for evaluation of program impact against costs.
Initial steps in this direction include strengthening the institutions that
have key analytic roles in the health care system including, importantly,
the leading medical colleges.
2.17      The objectives of Bank involvement are to assist China's MOPH in
addressing these issues. This will be done through long-term strengthening
of national health institutions -- e.g. the core medical colleges, and the
quality of planning, monitoring and analytic capacities -- and through
helping to develop and finance model efforts to improve the management and
efficiency of health services and their accessibility to the population.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Main Features
3.01      Although China has made remarkable progress in reducing its
population growth rate aad in improving the health and nutrition status of
its people during the last three decades, much remains to be done. One
obvious priority is to maintain, consolidate and extend the gains already
achieved in delivering basic health care services to its over 800 million
rural population; a second priority, given the gradually changing economic,
social and epidemiological profile of the entire population, is to train
the high-level manpower capable of developing appropriate, cost-effective
strategies for the new health problems of the next two decades and beyond.
In this connection, the striking of a proper balance between, on the one
hand, the continued need for traditional public preventive health care
services and, on the other, the growing need and demand for modern, more
sophisticated treatment of the health problems of older age groups is a
major challenge currently facing Chinese policy makers and managers.
Finally, a third priority is to strengthen the national capability for
managrment, evaluation and research relevant to improving health system
efficiency. The project proposed by the government and appraised by IDA is
intended as a first, modest step towards addressing these priorities;
possible future projects are expected to continue this process.



3.02      Linked directly to the above three priorities selected by the
government for initial IDA assistance, the project's principal operational
objectives would be as follows;
(a) to help improve health status in 46 counties of three
provinces (Heilongjiang, Shandong and Sichuan) and one
autonomous region (Ningxia Hiui);
(b) to help enhance the quality of education, training and
related research in the :ountry's 13 core medical colleges
and to increase these co Leges' capacity to provide
continuing education and training materials to practitioners
and to faculty of the over 100 remaining province-level
medical colleges; and
(c) to help improve management anid evaluation in the health
sector by strengthening two recently created national
iastitutions--the National Center for Preventive Medicine
(NCPM) and the Research Center for Health Planning and
Statistics (RCHPS)--and to support applied research at the
Sichuan Institute for Chinese Materia Medica.
3.03      The project, described in more detail in paras. 3.04 to 3.26
below, consists of three components designed to achieve the above distinct
but complementary objectives,, as follows:
Part A; Rural Health comprises an investment program (construction,
equipment, training, technical assistance and one-time personnel
recruitment costs) to upgrade the quality of health care provided at county
level and below in Heilongjiang, Shandong, Sichuan and Ningxia Hui
Autonomous Region; and inputs designed to strengthen the management,
including the implementation and supervision capability, of the four
province/region- level Health Bureaus for future county-level activities.
Part B: Medical Education consists of investments (construction, equipment,
overseas and in-country training, and technical assistance) directed
towards enhancing the content and methodology of teaching and related
research in 13 core medical colleges, including specifically continuing
education programs (to serve local clinicians and health officials) and
national training centers in specific subject areas at each college.
Part C: Strengthening Management, Evaluation and Research at the National
Level consists of support for four sets of activities:
i) National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM) -- the provision of
facilities, equipment, training and technical assistance to undertake basic
and applied research in disease prevention, to provide a coordinated
national capability for epidemiological surveillance, and to conduct
training and public information services.
ii) Research Center for Health Planning & Statistics (RCHPS) -- the
provision of facilities, equipment, training and technical assistance for
carrying out health policy analysis and research, and for servicing the
MOPH's overall data collection and processing needs.



- 10 -
iii) Sichuan Institute of Chinese Hateria Medica -- the provision of
facilities, equipment, training and technical assistance to carry out
specific research projects related to analyzing the safety, efficacy and
production of selected herbal medicines and pharmaceuticals.
iv) Project Implementation and Preparation -- the provision of equipment,
training and technical assistance for the two MOPH units responsible for
managing Parts A and B above (the Rural Health Division of the Bureau of
Medical Administration and the Division of Advanced hedical Education of
the Bureau of Science and Education); for the MOPH unit (World Bank Loan
Office) responsible for coordinating Parts C, i), ii) and iii) above and
for overall project implementation; and for the preparation by MOPH of
future projects suitable for extern.al financing.
B. Detailed IProject Description
Part A: Rural Health
3.04      Despite China's major advances in improving health conditions and
access to health services in rural areas, a number of important problems
remain. The objective of the rural health component of this project is to
assist 46 project counties in developing replicable approaches to dealing
with these problems and to provide resources to implement those
approaches. Although problems and priorities vary among the 46 counties,
key elements of most county plans include:
(a)   provision of basic laboratory, diagnostic and therapeutic
equipment - and the facilities to house them - at many county
hospitals, epidemic prevention stations (including improving
vaccination programs) and MCH stations (to improve pre- and
postnatal care and family planning services);
(b)   development and implementation of appropriate standard procedures
for laboratory and patient management (e.g. in emergency rooms)
and for pharmaceutical utilization;
(c)   orienting strategies for disease prevention (and management) more
explicitly to the emerging problems of cancer and cardiovascular
disease and to continuing, important communicable diseases such
as tuberculosis, hepatitis and dysentery;
(d)   extending access to health care to presently underserved segments
of the rural population both through capacity strengthening in
poorer provinces and through upgrading major commune health
clinics to provide a higher standard of care in locations remote
from the county town;
(e)   improving opportunities for and the content of training and
retraining of staff at all levels to meet the changing pattern of
health needs; and
(f)   strengthening county-level statistical and disease surveillance
capacity.
3.05      Based on an analysis of the main priorities for strengthening
health services delivery for the four provinces as a whole and, within each



- 11 -
province, on a detailed appraisal of proposals for one selected county, the
Provincial Health Bureaus each prepared an overall investvaent program
(construction, equipment, training and technical assistance and personnel
recruitment) and, in support of these proposed investments, an overall
implemention plan for health service delivery activities to be carried out
over a three-year period, 1984-86 inclusive. These overall investment
programs and implementation plans were the basis of project appraisal and
project cost estimates which, necessarily for a continuing program of this
type and scope, are intended to be applied flexibly within agreed fiaancial
limits and progranmatic activity criteria, subject to approval by the MOPH
and consultation with IDA.
3.06      Against this background, the four Provincial Health Bureaus have
recently appraised in detail the specific priorities and investments
proposed by each of the 42 remaining project counties concerned and, at the
same time, assisted the ccunty-level health authorities to develop
implementation plans.  Although, by definition, these implementation plans
are county-specific and vary significantly from one county to another, they
concentrate mainly on the main curative and preventive service activities
(including chronic disease prevention on a developmental basis) for which
the four key county-level health facilities are responsible, i.e. the
county hospital, epidemic prevention station, MCH clinic and training
center. In addition, the project will strengthen selected major commune
health centers.
3.07      The three provitices and autonomous region selected for inclusion
in the project are together broadly representative of the diverse economic,
social, demographic and health conditions in China. Sichuan province, for
example, is the most populous and one of the most diverse provinces and
Ningxia Hui, by contrast, is small and predominantly minority in
population; both are among the poorest provinces in China. A description
of the principal socioeconomic and health characteristics of the 46 project
counties, is contained at Annex 5, and Table 11I.1 provides summary
statistics.  Counties were selected within the provinces in order to be
geographically and economically representative and on the basis of their
willingness to generate resources of their own to help finance the project.
3.08       To meet its objectives the project will provide for the
folloving;
(a)   ConstructLon.  The project will support the rehabilitation,
extension and upgrading of existing debilitated facilities in the county
hospitals, maternal and child health centers, sanitation and ep4demic
prevention stations, and training centers, and support new construction
where such facilities do not exist yet.  In a majority of counties, the
project will support the construction of selected major commune health
centers. In a few counties, it will also support the rehabilitation of
selected commune health centers.  Construction represents about 46% of the
total cost of the rural iiealth component excluding contingencies.
(b)   Equipment.  The constructior  and renovation of the health
facilities will be accompanied by the upgrading of existing diagnostic and
therapeutic tools, as well as teaching aids in the training centers. The
equipment will be for strengthening the following areas: laboratories,
clinical diagnosis, cold chain, X-rays facilities, operating rooms,
training facilities, therapeutics, and vehieles. About 30% of total
project cost wilt be allocated to this category.



- 12 -
Table 111.1: RURAL HALH - SNMiRY DAT O1CKEENIR   PA ICIPArIING CUN'IES
Province              Average
Item              Heilongjiang Shandong Sichuan Nigdxia HuL or tota a/
Background
Nuaber of cOnties:             10        15       16        5        46
(% of provincial total)      (16%)     (14%)   (9%)      (31%)
1982 population (milliors)      5.42     12.15    12.51     1.46     31.54
Value aL irilustrial plus
agricultural output per
capita, 1982 (yuan)         467.5     605.2   382.8    236.4      450
Health and Heatlt Status
(per tbousarhi population)
Death rate, 1981                5.3       6.4     6.8       6.7       6.4
Birth rate, 1981               17.1      16.4    17.0      35.1      20.9
Hospital beds                   1.3       1.1     1-2.      1.1       2.0
Western doctors                 .26        .21     .15       .28       .52
Investient in Project b,
County-level                   10.6      14.3    18.4       1.8      45.1
(1.96)    (1.18)   (1.47)   (1.23)    (1.43)
Provincial level                1.2       4.6     3.0       4.3      13.1
(0.22)    (0.38)   (0.24)   (2.95)    (0.42)
IDA                             8.5       7.9    12.4       4.0      32.8
(1.57)    (0.65)  (0.99)   (2.74)    (1.04)
Total projeLt investment       20.3      26.8    33.8      10.1      91.0
(3.75)    (2.14)   (2.70)   (6.92)    (2.89)
a/ Values denoting averages are national averages.
b/ Per capita figires in dollars appear in parert1wes.
(c) Staff Training. The project will support basic training and
ira-service training, both of which will cover, in varying degrees,
according to the type of staff in training: (i) management, primarily for
doctors and supervisors; (ii) upgrading of professional skills, such as
improved clinical practices for doctors and other health workers; and (iii)
preservice training of primary health workers. About six percent of rural
health component cost will be allocated to this category.
(d)   Technical Assistance.  Trainers and consultants from the
prefectural or provincial levels will be needed to provide assistance in
design of training programs or in-service training of specific technical
skills. About 1% of rural health component cost is allocated to this
category. It is expected that 100% of these will be provided by local
consultants.



- 13 -
(e)   Personnel Recruitment..  Additional personnel will be recruited
after the expansion in the scope and quality of health services in the
areas of medical staff (doctors and nurses), laboratory technicians,
administrators and trainers.  Five percent of rural health component
expenditures is allocated to one-time costs associated with recruitment -
including initial training, housing, office space and supplies - according
to Chinese government regulations.
3.09      In addition to the county-level investments and supporting
implementation plans and in order to assist the four Provincial Health
Bureaus in coordinating, managing, supervising and monitoring the progress
of county-level activities, each provincial investment nnd implementation
plan includes a small province-level "management" component designed to
strengthen the Bureaus' leadership functions and responsibilities
(vis-a-vis the counties) in three main areas: health manpower training and
retraining; heaith statistics and management information; and maintenance
and repair of medical equipment. These incremental investTents are
justified not only in terms of the Bureaus' direct responsibilities for
overall project management and implementation but also in terms of
strengthening their institutional capability as the principal intermediary
between the MOPH in Beijing and the remaining counties within their
administrative and technical jurisdiction.
3.10      Individual county implementation plans, prepared since appraisal
and aggregated by the Provincial Health Bureaus in accordance with
statistlcal and reporting formats agreed with IDA, provide a satisfactory
basis for supervising the progress of project implementation in process or
input terms by the tour provinces, the MOPH and, indirectly, by IDA.
Procedures and parameters for monitoring and evaluating the project's
results in light of objectives and ultimate impact were discussed during
the post appraisal mission and will be implemented by the four Provincial
Health Bureaus, in consultation with the MOPH and IDA.
Part B: Medical Education
3.11      China's medical colleges have begun to recover from the massive
disruptions of the cultural revolution, but in many respects the style and
content of the teaching program, and the laboratory facilities required for
it, remain seriously out of date. In particular, the following have beer,
identified as important problems for the medical colleges to overcome:
(a)   Many teaching staff have no postgraduate education and their
undergraduate training is now out-of-date;
(b)   Teaching laboratories are under-equipped and often lack any
up-to-date equipment; computational facilities are weak or
non-existent; and libraries need strengthening;
(c)   The medical content of the curriculum often fails to provide
adequate treatment of subjects that have advanced rapidly in
recent years (e.g. virology, epidemiology and immunology), and
other relevant subjects such as management, health economics and
behavioral sciences are lacking;



- 14 -
(d)   Teaching methods are often highly didactic with little scope for
active student involvement or individual initiative and,
frequently, there is an inadequate supply of teaching aids; and
(e)   The examination and certification systems need updating both to
improve efficiency and to reflect MOPH priorities concerning
curriculum content.
3.12      The project will support strengthening of the teaching programs
and closely related research at the 13 "core" medical colleges that are
directly administered under the MOPH. These 13 colleges include the
country's six key medical colleges as well as two colleges of traditional
Chinese medicine. The project's emphasis is to improve the quality and the
outreach of basic teaching programs at the colleges rather than to increase
the numbers of doctors graduated or the strength of research programs.
3.13       Quality improvements are to be effected in two separate ways:
(a) First, by compensating for the lost years of the cultural
revolution through programs of facilities expansion,
equipment modernization, staff upgrading and improved
teaching methods and materials; and
(b) Second, by providing assistance to extend the range and
content of course offerings to include recent developments
from elsewhere in the world that are relevant to the Chinese
health sector in coming years -- e.g., preventive strategies
for chronic diseases, modern methods in epidemiology, and
health management and economics.
The outreach capacity of the medical colleges will be strengthened both
through enhancing their capacity to provide continuing education to
clinicians and health officials in the province where the college is
located and to assist other medical colleges by providing advanced training
for their faculty and by providing them with improved teaching materials.
3.14       These tasks will be undertaken by support of three new activities
in each college. The first activity consists of five "general" program
areas for upgrading in each college; the second consists of "special"
program areas that will be upgraded in one or more of the participating
colleges; and the third consists of developing a number of "national
centers," each of which will be administered by a particular college but
will potentially serve all the medical colleges in the country or a
substantial geographical region. Table III.2 lists the special programs
and national centers that will be administered by each college. The
general program areas, which will be part of each college's program, are
the following:
(a)  General Program Area 1           Strengthening teaching and learning
resources in the college through
upgrading of staff, equiping of basic
teaching laboratories, strengthening of
libraries, and provision of basic
computational facilities.



Table M1.2: PIOGRB OF lJIE 13 PARF1CIPA11V XICAL (DLIE4ES
College                                 Special Program Ares                            National Centers
Beijing College of T(M           Clinical Pharmaolcgy, Foreign Language           Audio-Visual Production, Resardi Center fo)r
Training, Medical Records                       Medical Education
Beijing Medical College          Clidcal Parncology, Stomatology, Child           Audio-Visual Production, Managenmnt
devlopnEnt
Capital Medical College of China  Clinical Phmaaolcgy                             JnrunoI
China Medical University         Clinical Stcoatology, Child Develqnmnt, Foreign  Resarch Center for Medical Education
Larguage Trainig
Guangzlu College of TUM          Audio-Visual Materials Software,                 Design, Meaurement ard Evaluation
Clinical Pharmacolgy, EquipTi-nt Hsintenanoe
Hunan Medical College            Equ4pl;t Maintenaic,                             Clinical Pharmaology, CytoWnetics
For     Languaga Training
Norn Beth3ne Medical Univ.       Clinical Stomatology, Foreigi Langae Training,   eurology
Audio-Visual Softwrre
Shanghai First Medical College    Informatim Retrieval                            Audio-Visal Proudcion; Infcnmation
Retrieval; Reeardc Center for Medical
Education; Desig2, Measuxeaent and Evaluation
Shaandg Medical College          Clinical Stmatology, Electron Microscopy         Perinatology
Sicthan Medical College          Clinical Stanatoloy, Foreign language Training,  Audio-Visual Production; Desigi, measuweent
Equipnt Mainternai                              ani Evaluation
Wuban Medical College            Child Developent                                 Fnwiramnntal Medicine
Xan Medical College              Clinical Stomology, Child Development, Foreig    Mangemuet.
Langage Training, Equipnt Maintenance
Zhngshan Medical College         Clinical Phamwolcgy, Clinical Stanatolcgy,       Audio-Visual Productlon, Foreigi Language
Child Developneit                               Training, Research Center for Medica
EUcati.



- 16 -
(b)  General Progam Area 2              Development and teaching of preventive
strategies for chronic disease.
(c)  General Program Area 3             Strengthening teaching of epidemiology
and program evaluation (or "Design,
Measurement and Evaluation").
(d)  General Program Area 4             Strengthening teaching of health manage-
ment and economics.
(e)  General Program Area 5             Provision of continuing medical educa-
tion to local clinicians and health
officials.
General Program Area 1, which accounts for about 60% of general program
areas 1-5, is principally oriented toward the task of rebuilding quality
from the disruptions of the cuLtural revolution; General Program Areas 2 -
4 aim to improve quality by helping to modernize the content of the
teaching program; andl General Programn Area S will help 4 of the colleges to
develop their outreach role.
3.15       For each of the activities -- general and specific program areas,
and national centers -- improvements will be effected through staff
development (by fellowships within China and abroad); through acquiisition
of laboratory equipment and, for each college, small-to-medium sized
computer facilities; through renovation and construction of classroom and
laboratory space; and through technical assistance fromn within China and
abroad. Table III.3 summarizes each college's plans in each of these
categories and indicates the total number of person-years of fellowships
and technical assistance planned as well as amounts of new construction and
the value of equipment acquisition. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the medical education component would be carried out in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association.
Table 111.3: 1MtESr'!  PFOGRAMS OF 11* M:DICAL (DLLWS
Staff Pavelopment    'iechnical
Fellcwships        Assistance       Construction
(staff-years)    (cornsultant-years)    (thotsands   Equ4iprent
From within  Fran     of US$-    LDcal   Foreign
Namn of College           In-country Abroad   China     abroad   Base Costs) (thousands of U.1$)
Beijing College of TCIl         212.0    12.5       1.1      1.5       2475       1831       1381
Beijing Medical College          49.7    15.3       1.0      1.1       7380       1618       1434
Capital Medical CoLlege of China    6.5    15.5     2.6      1.3       5766        113       1017
ChIna Sdical University          86.7    18.0       3.3      3.6       6017       1872       2197
Guangzhou College of 1T2        68.8     9.5      13.5      0.8       1620        671       1246
Hunan Medical College           318.0    26.0      12.0)     2.8       3833       2151       2525
Norman Bethune Medical Univ.     81.0    19.8      26.0      2.6       6932       2281       228t
Shanghai First Medical College   48.2    28.5      -         4.8       5654       7754       2448
Shandong Medical College        156.3    23.0      19.3      2.9       3853       5271       2133
Sichuan Medical College         428.7    20.3      27.8      3.5      11766       2866       2754
Wuhan Mdical College            149.0    22.8       2.6      1.7       4272       2917       2201
Xian Mdical College             425.0    22.5       -        3.5       2180       2003       2259
Zhongshan Midical College       116.8    22.3       3.8      4.8       4081       2500       2820
IOrJAL                        2146.7   256      113.0     34.9      65829       33798     26696



-17 -
Part C: Strengthening Management, Evaluation and Research at the National
Level
3.16      i)  National Center for Preventive Medicine.  The National Center
for Preventive Medicine (NCPM) was created in August. 1983, to provide
national focus for China's efforts in preventive medicine and public
health. It is composed of a newly established core staff and five
previously existing institutions: the Institute of Virology, the Institute
of Epidemiology and Microbiology, the Institute of Parasitic Diseases, the
Institute of Health, and the Laboratory of Industrial Hygiene. Each of
these institutions is in Beijing with the exception of the Institute for
Parasitic Diseases, which is in Shanghai. Working under a central
leadership, with the collaboration of the core staff, these units will
redirect and expand their efforts from a primary concern with basic and
applied research to a broader range of responsibilities for public health
and preverntive medicine.
3.17      The five major objectives of the NCPM are:  (a) To carry out
fundamental and applied research on preventive medicine and coordinate
preventive medicine research programs throughout the country; (b) To
provide technical assistance to the provincial health institutions and
train public health professionals for the provinces; (c) To engage in
surveillance, monitoring and supervision of health, epidemic prevention and
quarantine programs; (d) To develop the scientific basis for establishing
regulations, standards, and appropriate public health priorities and
policies; and (e) To collect, analyse, study and exchange information on
preventive medicine.
3.18      The project will have the dual task of assisting individual
Institutes of the NCPM in re-orienting themselves from a principally basic
research objective toward the broader set of objectives just described and
of assisting the central units of NCPM to initiate their work program. The
NCPM's infrastructure will be strengthened by construction of a building,
computer services that can assist in administrative management,
surveillance activities and a variety of large scale studies.  A limited
amount of basic laboratory equipment will also be provided. Technical
assistance, with a few experts in public health and epidemiology making
repeated and/or prolonged visits to the NCPM, will permit the NCPM to
benefit from the experience of overseas disease control, surveillance and
prevention institutions. The project will also assist the NCPM to expand
into health education, to continuie development of its disease surveillance
points, and to assist the 46 counties in the rural health component to
strengthen their disease surveillance capacity.
3.19      Each of the Institutes in the NCPM will receive support for
technical assistance and overseas training. The emphasis in both of these
forms of aid will be in preventive medicine, public health and general
epidemiology. Depending on the institute, forty to 100 percent of all
training fellowships will be in general epidemiology (field attachments,
acadewic programs and foreign governmental training programs).
3.20      ii)  Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics.  In July
1982, the MOPH established within the Bureau of Planning and Finance, under
its Director, a new Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics



- 18 -
(RCHPS).  The Center is to be responsible for providing analytical skills
and methods to strengthen the work of the MOPH in planning, development,
management and evaluation of the country's health facilities, manpower,
finances and other resources to meet the health needs of its people. It
will have responsibility for improving the country's health statistics
system at all levels, including statistics derived from MCH, epidemic
prevention, and administrative units. The Center is also intended to
provide data processing service capacity for the entire MOPH.
3.21      To achieve full capacity for undertaking the ambitious tasks
expected of it, the Center will require substantial development over a long
period. The purpose of this project component is to assist the RCHPS in
taking the initial steps toward developing this capacity; consequently the
project places substantial emphasis on staff development through training
and provision of technical assistance, initially emphasizing strengthening
of statistical analysis and computing capacity. The component includes
construction of a small facility to house the RCHPS. Overseas training and
technical assistance will be coordinated by collaboration with an
appropriate external institution.
3.22      iii) Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica.  Traditional
medicine, as is well known, plays an important role in China. Important
efforts are now underway to improve biochemical knowledge of the active
agents in herbal preparations, and attempts to initiate scientific efforts
to assess the therapeutic efficacy of traditional procedures enjoy strong
support from the MOPH. The project includes provision for strengthening
the research capacity of one of China'3 leading institutions for study of
traditional herbal medicine -- the Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia
Medica (SICMM). SICMM builds on several important strengths ,or
development of such a research capacity: it has a substantial research
staff, its location in Chongqing provides easy access to abundant flora and
fauna relevant to its investigations, and it already operates two
substantial botanical gardens for the cultivation of plants being studied.
Nonetheless, important impediments to further research progress remain.
SICMM lacks appropriate physical facilities, as well as certain items of
equipment that are essential for modern research in these areas; much of
the equipment it does have is out-of-date and needs replacement or
augmentation. Current scientific standards for assessing drug efficacy and
safety, and for identifying the biologically active ingredients of
effective preparations, need to be developed.
3,23      The project will assist SICMM by provision of fellowship and
training opportunities to expedite the development of its staff, by
provision of priority items of equipment for its research program, and by
construction and renovation of laboratory facilities. It is anticipated
that a long-term collaborative arrangement will be established with a
similar research institute outside China to assist in placing fellows for
training abroad and to assure continuity in the technical assistance
provided to the research program. Further, it is anticipated that SICMM
will collaborate with the epidemiological and evaluation activities being
developed in medical colleges under General Program Area 3.



- 19 -
3.24       iv) Project Implementation and Preparation.  This component of
the project will provide resources for future project preparation and will
assist three entities within MOPR--the Advanced Medical Education Division,
the Rural Health Division and the World Bank Loan Office--in developing
their capacity for project planning and management. In addition to its
project coordination role (para. 5.02), the World Bank Loan Office will
manage an IDA allocation of about $700,000 to assist (through technical
assistance, study tours and fellowships) technical units of MOPH to prepare
specific components of possible subsequent health projects. The project
will provide office equipment and vehicles to assist staff in the relevant
MOPH units with project implementation and management.
3.25      Important issues concerning the training and deployment of health
manpower at all levels have been raised in the context of both the medical
education and the rural health components of this project. These issues
have been reviewed in the health sector report. In order to elucidate
these issues, and to assist in possible future project preparation, the
project will support a health manpower study. The WBLO will be responsible
for ensuring that this study is conducted and that appropriate input to it
is received from line bureaus of MOPH. Assurances were received from the
borrower that this study will be completed by June, 1986, or such later
date as agreed between the borrower and the Association, under terms-of-
reference determined after consultation with the Association. The MOPH
will furnish a copy of the study to the Association for its review and
comments.
3.26      The Division of Advanced Medical Education will be responsible
for organizing workshops of interest to all participating medical colleges,
for strengthening the national medical examination system, for organizing
intensive foreign language training for fellows to be sent abroad, and for
conducting an evaluation of project implementation in the 13 colleges; the
project will provide resources for technical assistance in these tasks and
equipment for automated examination scoring.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The estimated total cost of the project is Y645.6 million or
US$322.8 million equivalent, net of duties and taxes and including charges
on the use of foreign capital. The foreign exchange cost would be US$80.8
million (25% of the total). Details are given in Annex 6, and are
summarized in Tables IV.1 and IV.2 below. Base costs refer to mid-1983
prices. Construction costs for medical colleges are based on estimated
areas and unit costs provided by the government for the various types of
buildings reiuired, averaging US$160-180 equivalent per m2 and ranging from
US$100 per m for residential accomodations to US$250 per m2 for
laboratories.   Equipment costs are based on draft equipment lists provided
by the project authorities concerned. Detailed specifications are
currently under preparation and final equipment lists were available in
February 1984. Foreign consultants are estimated to cost US$10,000 per
consultant-month for the first month and US$6,000 for any subsequent
mor.ths, averaging about US$6,300 per consultant-month (including travel and
subsistence). About 525 months of foreign consultancy are included in the
project. Overseas fellowships and study-tours, varying in duration from
one month to 48 months, are estimated to cost on average US$1,800 per
staff-month. Physical contingencies equal 10% on buildings and equipment.



- 20 -
Price contingencies are based on the following expected rates of increase
for international and domestic prices respectively: 1984: 7.5% and 7.5%;
1985: 7.0% and 7.0%; 1986: 6.0% and 6.0%; 1987: 6.0% and 6.0%; and 1988:
6.0% and 6.0%. Physical contingencies represent 9% of base costs; price
contingencies are 10% of base costs plus physical contingencies. The
project's foreign exchange component of $80.8 million has been calculated
as follows: (a) civil works - 0%; (b) equipment and vehicles - 57%; (c)
training - 44%; (d) technical assistance - 78%; and (e) personnel
recruitment - 0%.
Table TV. 1: T'UL PROJEFC CDST BY CIJFCTIVE
Y Million         US$ Million        % of
Foreign
local Foreign Total local Foreign Total Exchange
A. StrengthAnng of Riral Health                    110.0  50.3  160.4  55.0  25.2  80.2   31.4
B. Strergthning of Medical Education               209.2  72.0  281.2 104.6  36.0  140.6   25.6
C. Srerngthening Mn3nagement, Evaluation and Research
i) Natioral Center for Preventive Medicine     16.8   6.2  23.1   8.4   3.1  11.5   27.0
ii) Sichuan Institute of Chinese Mbteria Mbdica    4.1   1.8   5.9   2.0   0.9   2.9   30.7
iii) Center for Health Planirg and Statistics     6.4   1.7   8.1   3.2   0.8   4.0   20.8
iv) Project ITnplementation and Preparation      2.4   5.4   7.8   1.2   2.7   3.9   69.6
Subtotal                                            29.7  15.1  44.8  14.8   7.6  22.4   33.7
Total Baseline Costs                               348.9  137.5 486.4  174.5  68.7 243.2   28.3
Physical Contingencies                           31.6  10.9  42.5  15.8   5.5  21.3   25.6
Price Contingencies                              38.9  13.3  52.1  19.4   6.6  26.1   25.4
Total Project Costs                                419.4  161.6  581.0 2(19.7  80.8 290.5   27.8
Charge on Use of Foreign Capital                  64.6   -    64.6  32.3   -    32.3    -
Total Financing Required                           484.0  161.6  645.6 242.0  80.8 322.8   25.0
Table IV.2: TCOAL PR1JECi OGST BY EXPENDITURE CATEXDRY
(US$ Million)
Stren ning  -anaement, Evaluation and Research
National  Sichuan    Research
Center  Irstitute    Center       Project
for    of Chinese  for Health  Implementation
Raral   ?Edical  Preuentive Materla  Planing and       and
Health Education  Meicine  MBdica       Sta'istics   Preparation Total
Investment Costs
A. Cnstruction          42.2       65.8     3.2        1.9         3.0           .5      116.6
B. Equipeent, Vehicles   27.2      60.4     6.3         .6          .5          .9        95.9
C. Training              5.7        8.9     1.7         .3          .4         1.0        18.0
D. Technical Assistance    .5       5.5      .3         .1          .1         1.5         8.0
E. Persornel ecruit, nt  4.6         -       -          -           -           -          4.6
Total Baseline Costs        80.2      140.6    T1.5       2.9          4.0         3.9       243.1
Contirnecies
Physical Contingencies    6.9      12.6     1.0         .2          .4           .1       21.2
Price Contingencies      3.9       19.6     1.8         .2          .3           .4       26.2
Total Project Costs         91.0      172.8    14.3       3.3          4.7         4.4      290.5
Charge on Use of Foreign
Capital                                                                                   32.3
Total Finacing REqtrired                                                                    322.8



- 21 -
4.02       Recurrent Costs.  It is estimated that Part A: Rural Health of
the project would increase recurrent outlays on rural health in the 46 par-
ticipating counties by about US$4.4 million equivalent commencing in 1987,
or about US$95,0U0 per county   In 1982, total recurrent health expendi-
tures in these 4b counties ave:aged about US$1.2 million per county, which
is expected to increase to about US$1.6 million per county in 1986. The
incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project represent about
8/ of total recurrent health expenditures in 1982 and about 6% of projected
totaL recurrent health expenditures in 1986/87.  For Part B, the invest-
ments proposed will not directly increase enrollments at the 13 medical
colleges.  The incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project
should thus be minimal, mainly operation and maintenance of new equipment.
B. Financing Plan
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$85.0 million would finance 26% of
total project costs, including all the US$80.8 milLion foreign costs plus
US$4.2 million or 1.7% of total local costs. Financing of local costs
woul.d apply only to Part A: Rural [eaLth and is justified on project
grounds because the local counterpart contribution would be provided by
province, county and commune level institutions and also to iaake a
significant IDA contribution, about one-third, to the cost of this part of
the project.
4.04      The IDA credit proceeds allocated for Part A: Rural Realth would
be miade available to Heilongjiang, Shandong and Sichuan provinces and
Ningxia Hui Autonomuous Region and for Part C (ii): Sichuan Institute for
Chinese Materia Medica to Sichuan province under arrangements acceptable to
lDA.  Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.05       Table IV.3 below slhows the proposed contributions of the central,
provincial and county-level government. to the cost of Part A of the pro-
ject and of the central government and/or its agencies to Parts B and C.
Table IV.3: FInNCIrL r'LAN
(US$ milliorE)
local.
Central   Provincial   Coumty   Sub-CoLnty
Ccxiponent              Government  Government  Government Sources  1V  TOTAL
A. Rural Health                     1.4 a/    10.1      34.0        5.9   28.8   80.2
B. Medical Education              104.6        -         -          -      36.0  140.6
C. Strengthening Management,
Evaluation and Research
i) National Center for
Prevetit veMdicine        8.4        -          -         -       3.1   11.5
ii) Center for Health
Planning & Statistics     3.2        -          -         -       0.8    4.0
iii) Sichian Irstitute of
Chinese Materia Modica    -          2.0        -         -       0.9    2.9
iv) Project lImpenmntation
and Preparation           1.2        -          -         -       2.7    3.9-
Subtotal                           12.8        2.0       -          -       7.5   22.3
Contingencie                       27.3        2.2       4.4        0.8   12.7   47.4
Total Project Costs               146.1       14.3       38.4       6.7   85.0  290.5
Charge on Use of Foreign (Cital  32.3        -          -         -             32.3
Total Financing Required  _       178.4       14.3       38.4       6.7   85.0  322.8
a/ Government Contribution via operation of in.ernaL settleInt rate system on local cwrency
financing.



- 22 -
C. Procurement
4.06      Procurement arra2gements are summarized in the table below.
Table IV.4: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method          Total
Project Element                      ICB      LCB      Other      N.A.   Cost
Civil works                           -        -         141.0 a/  _      141.0
Equipment and vehicles               60.4      -          54.8 a/  -      115.2
(60.4)    -          (5.0)    -      (65.4)
Training                              -        -          20.4     -       20.4
-       -         (12.6)    -      (12.6)
Technical assistance                           -           9.0     -        9.0
-  -      (7.0)    -       (7.0)
Personnel Recruitment                 -        -          -        4.9      4.9
Total Project Cost                 60.4      -        225.2      4,9   290.5
(60.4)    -         (24.6)    -      (85.0)
Charge on Use of Foreign Capital    -          -          -        -       32.3
Total Financing Required           60.4     -         225.2      4.9   322.8
(60.4)    -         (24.6)    -      (85.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ For these elements, "other" is defined as the procurement practices and
procedures followed by the Chinese Government (paras. 4.07 + 4.10).
4.07      Civil Works.  All civil works under the proposed project would be
procured following the government's local procedures and financed from its
ow-n resources. Architectural plans for the rural health part of the
project have been prepared by provincial and county design bureaus and for
the medical colleges by the city design bureaus or by the college
authorities themselves. The design bureaus would also be responsible for
supervision of construction. Both the plans and designs and the
Government's procedures for construction and construction supervision have
been reviewed and are considered satisfactory.
4.08      Site Selection.  Most of the facilities to be provided at the
thirteen medical colleges would be constructed at existing campus sites.
Sites for facilities for other parts of the project have been selected and
would be made available by the Tespective levels of government.
4.09      Equipment.  Draft equipment lists, including detailed
specifications, have been finalized by project institutions and provincial
health bureaus and were reviewed by the MOPH and IDA in F?ebruary, 1984.
Equipment will be procured in three phases spread over 3J-4 years; about
45% of all equipment is expected to be procured during the first phase
(1984/85). Draft tender documents for international competitive bidding
(ICB) are also now being prepared by the MOPE and are expected to be
available for IDA review in April, 1984. For internationally procured
items, the MOPH would be responsible for preparation of draft bidding
documents, bid review and recommendations for award; and a division of the
CNTIC, established to assist procurement under World Bank-financed



- 23 -
projects, would be responsible for advertising and receiving bids and
undertaking contract awards on behalf of the MOPH. The MOPH would be
responsible for taking delivery of equipment and for its distribution to
proj ct institutions.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the physical facilities required for the installation of equipment and the
personnel needed to operate and maintain it would be available.
4.10      Procurement procedures have been developed in accordance with
estimated sources of supply and finance.  One category, about 47% of the
total, conprises basic laboratory equipment, pharmaceutical and laboratory
materials and standard teaching supplies all of which are available
locally.  rhis equipment would be procured in China in accordance with
local procedures and financed by the government. The second category of
equipment, 537. of the total comprises relatively sophisticated items that
are nrostly unavailable locally. This would be procured on the basis of ICB
procedures following IDA guidelines and financed out of the proposed
credit. IDA-financed items would be grouped into bid packages to the
extent possible to encourage competition and bulk procurement.  Each
invitation to bid or bid package exceeding an estimated cost of US$150,000
equivalent would be subject to ICB procedures. Local manufacturers would
be permitted to participate where appropriate and be eligible for a 15%
margin of preference, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower,
in the evaluation of bids. Itemnz and groups of items estimated to cost
less than $150,000 and in aggregate not exceeding US$5.0 million equivalent
may be procured through: (a) contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
and evaluation of quotations of bids invited from at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Association's Procurement Guidelines; and (b)
direct purchase for proprietary items or where justified by the need for
standardization.  The US$5.0 million limit was established on the basis of
experience with previous IDA credits in China.
4.11      Prior IDA review of contract awards would exclude contracts of
less than $150,000 equivalent, estimated to cover less than 8% of the total
value of all contracts. Sample post reviews of these contracts would be
carried out during regular supervision missions.
4.12      Selection of technical assistance consultants would be carried
out in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
D. Disbursements
4.13      The proposed credit of SDR80.2 million (US$85 million equivalent)
would be disbursed as rollows:
a) 100% of the foreign cost of imported equipment or 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment;
b) 100% of the foreign cost of consultants;
C) 1D0% of the cost of overseas fellowships and training; and
d) l00% of local training costs - tuition, transportation and
room and board - of Part A (Rural Health) for tleilongjiang and
Sichuan provinces, and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.



- 24 -
Reimbursement of overseas fellowships and training under Parts B & C, and
local training costs under Part A (Rural Health) would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditures, the supporting documentation for which would
be retained in the WBLO in MOPH for review by IDA during project
supervision missions.
4.14       In order to reduce the administrative burrden on the government
and IDA of disbursing against a large number of applications for equipment,
foreign technical assistance and overseas training (including study tours),
MOPH would open a revolving fund in the Bank of China, with an initial
deposit of up to the US dollar equivalent of SDR 1.9 million, the amount
needed to cover about 120 days of greatest disbursemsent activity.  KOP1
would periodically send statements of disbursements made from the revolving
fund, with appropriate supporting documentation, to IDA,, which would then
replenish the revolving fund.  The establishment of this working fund is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
4.15      The schedule of disbursement of the credit is shown in Table
IV.5 below. Disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1989, about
six months after the estimated date of project completion.
table IV.5:  SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMSNTS a/
(US$ million)
Proportion Disbursed by Year
IDA Fiscal                                Estimate
Year &        Semester   Cumulative       for this      ALl PEN       All EAP
Semester       ---(US$ million)----       Project       Projects    Sectors
---------- Percent------------
1985
1st            -                           -             0.8        0.7
2nd          15.5         15.5            18             2.0        3.0
1986
lst          15.5         31.0            18            2.0         5.0
2nd          13.0         44.0            15             3.0         7.0
1987
1st          13.0         57.0            15             4.0        8.0
2nd           9.5         66.5            11             5.0        9.0
1988
1lt           9.5         76.0            11            6.0        10.0
2nd           3.0         79.0             4             7.0        10.0
1989
1st           3.0         82.0             4             7.0         9.0
2nd           1.5         83.5             2             8.0         9.0
1990
1st           1.5         85.0             2            8.0         7.0
a/ Disbursements are expected to be faster than either the regional
average for all sectors or for the PHU sectoral average because the
bulk of expenditures to be disbursed against by the Association, such
as equipment, technical assistance and fellowships, would be incurred
during the first two years of the project.



- 25 -
E. Accounts and Audits
4.16      Accounts for Parts B and C (i) - (iv) of the project would be
maintained by the central WBLO and for Part A by the provincial WBLOs.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project accounts would
be maintained according to accounting principles and practices satisfactory
to the Association; thbt annual audits of project expenditures would be
carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and that
the Government would provide the Association with certified copies of such
audited financial statements and the auditors' reports thereon within six
months after the close of each Chinese fiscal year.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization
5.01      The principal operational objectives of the project are threefold
(para. 3.02), of which two, corresponding to its two main components--Part
A: Rural Health and Part B: Medical Education--fall under the
administrative and technical jurisdiction of two existing organizational
units of the MOPL-, namely the Rural Health Division of the Bureau of
Medical Administration and rhe Division of Advanced Medical Education of
the Bureau of Science and Education.  The third objective--to help
establish two new institutions and to support research at an existing
institution--is the administrative and technical responsibility
respectively of the Ministry of Public Health (for NCPM), the Planning and
Finance Bureau (for RCHPS) and the Sichuan Province Health Bureau (for the
Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica).  In addition, the
International Division of the Foreign Affairs Bureau is responsible for all
liaison and communications with external aid agencies, such as WHO, UNICEF
and the Bank.  An organigram depicting the current organizational structure
of the MOPH is attached as Chart 1.
5.02      Against this background, the main responsibility for project
management and coordination as a whole would rest with a unit, the World
Bank Loan Office (WBLO), already established to coordineate project
preparation.  The WBLO, which is responsible to a vice minister of MOPH,
would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of all project
components, procurement of equipment, administration of technical
assistance and training, project finances (including counterpart funding
and credit disburseaents) and overall project progress reports.  To this
end, it would have a strong liaison function with the technical divisions
responsible for Par-ts A through C of the project, including the Sichuan
Province Health Bureau for C (ii).  Finally, the WBLO would coordinate the
preparation of the project completion report. State Council Approval of
the Development Credit and Project Agreements is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
B.  Project Management
5.03      The project would be directed by a "Leading Group" or steering
committee within the MOPH, consisting of the heads of the Rural Health,
Advanced Medical Education, Health & Epidemic Prevention, Planning &
Finance and Interiational Divisions/Bureaus. This group would meet
periodically and have responsibility for setting overall policy guidelines,
approving plans and budgets for individual project components, monitoring



- 26 -
the project's overall progress and effectiveness, and resolving any issues
affecting project goals and implementation.
5.04      The WBLO, the staff secretariat for the above leading group,
would be headed by a director with day-to-day responsibility for all
aspects of project execution. He would be supported by about 25-30
full-time staff organized into three divisions responsible for project
execution, procurement and finances and accounts respectively. The
responsibilities of the WBLO and the appointment of key staff were
confirmed in early 1984. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the borrower would maintain the WBLO as agreed throughout the project
implementation period with appropriate functions and staffing.
5.05      The above pattern of organization and management arrangements
would be replicated in the four provincial health bureaus responsible for
Part A: Rural Health. Specifically, leading groups chaired by the
provincial Vice-Governors concerned would oversee project implementation,
backed up by WBLOs or project management units in the provincial health
bureaux, each cnmprising 8-10 full-time staff headed by a Deputy Director.
The provincial WBLOs would appraise, approve and supervise the plans and
programs developed by the county-level institutions. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the provinces concerned would maintain the
WBLOs throughout the project implementation period with appropriate
functions and staffing.
5.06      Part B: Medical Fducation would be executed by the thirteen
medical colleges concerned on the basis of the detailed "core" and
"national center" teaching and research programs developed for each
college.  In each college and for each of the five general programs
(strengthening teaching-learning, preventive strategies, design,
measurement and evaluation, management, and continuing education), for the
appropriate number of specialized programs, and for the aational training
centers, advisory groups/committees would be established to supervise the
development of curricula, teaching materials, demonstration projects and
their evaluation. A review panel, comprising representatives of each
college and responsible to the head of the Advanced Medical Education
Division, was established for project preparation and, during
implementation, would meet periodically to review physical and financial
progress (construction, equipment procurement, fellowships and technical
assistance) and the technical quality of the general, specialized and
national center programs.
5.07      The implementation of the NCPM and RCHPS subcomponents would be
directed by the heads of the respective agencies on the basis of detailed
implementation plans currently under preparation. The heads of these two
agencies would be responsible and report to the Minister of Public Health
(for NCPK) and to the Director of the Planning and Finance Bureau (for
RCHPS).  Implementation of the Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Kedica
subcomponent would be directed by the head of the Institute, reporting to
the Director of Sichuan Provincial Health Bureau.



- 27 -
C. Technical Assistance and Overseas Fellowships
5.08       Selection of technical assistance consultants and of candidates
for overseas fellowships and other training would be carried out in
accordance with criteria and following procedures agreed upon mutually by
the MOPH and IDA. Given the large number of individual overseas
fellowships (about 425 equivalent to about 256 staff years) and the
importance of ensuring their compatibility with the qualitative objectives
of Lhe project, their administration and financing is a crucial element of
project management. Accordingly, the MOPH has prepared an overall plan,
defining training needs and objectives and proposed locations of study for
the first year of project implementation (1984/85), based upon individual
proposals prepared and approved by the colleges/institutes concerned; in
addition, MOPR, specifically the Advanced Medical Education Division and
WBLO, has developed appropriate procedures for the administration of
fellowships at the overseas training institutions concerned.
Understandings between MOPH and IDA on criteria and procedures for
fellowship selection and administration were reached at negotiations, based
on MCPH's existing policies for such training.  It was agreed that an
annual review of progrsm progress would take place at least once a year,
commencing in July 19E4, at which time the borrower and the Association
would agree on needed modifications.
D. Implementation Schedule
5.09      The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period
(Annex 3), plus six months for the completion of payments and full
withdrawals of credit proceeds. The project is thus expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989 with a closing date of December 31, 19S9.
Preliminary work is well advanced, equipment lists are being finalized and
bidding documents are being prepared for IDA review.
VI. PROCJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The project is expected to yield three main types of benefit;3 or
impact: on the quality and accessibility of health services available to
the project area population (46 counties) and on their health status; on
the quality and outreach of educational programs in China's thirteen corc
medical colleges and, indirectly, on its over 100 remaining province-level
medical schools; and on China's national capability for epidemiological
surveillance and research, health planning and statistics and research in
traditional Chinese medicine.
6.02      The rural health component would strengthen the capacity, within
each of the participating counties, of the county's general hospital,
epidemic prevention station, MCH station, training center and selected
major commune health centers.  The result would be improved efficiency in
controlling communicable disease, in managing selected chronic diseases,
and In provision of competent basic curative care both in the county town
and at intermediate referral locations in rural areas. By helping to
repair the damage of the cultural revolution, by helping co add modern
subjects to the curriculum, and by improving teaching mat;erials and



- 28 -
methods, the medical education component aims principally at strengthening
the quality of education provided in the medical colleges. Additionally,
through establishment of continuing education programs and 20 national
centers for specialized education (open to faculty of all medical
colleges), this component would assist in immediate upgrading of medical
practice among leaders in the medical community and in strengthening
education at other medical colleges. The third project component would
improve the statistical and analytical base for health planning and
administration in China and would, thereby, help develop the MOPH's
long-term analytic capacity to deal with emerging health sector problems.
B. Project Risks
6.03      On the basis of China's record to date in rural health care
service delivery, there is little doubt that the quality ef health services
delivered under the project, if carried out as planned, would lead to
improvements in health services. Based on the experience of project
preparation during the last year, there is also little doubt about the
government's commitment and ability to carry out the project in physical
implementation terms (construction, equipment procurement, overseas
training, etc.). The main risks, which are not insignificant, are in the
area of the qualitative change and institutional development impact of
Parts B and C of the project--whether the MOPH will have the insight,
energy and skill (as well as the political support) to carry through the
significant changes in medical education and training that are needed and
to create the new institutional capabilities proposed--in the face of the
isolation and intellectual inertia, as well as the physical disruption,
from which China has only recently emerged. The changes in direction
envisaged will in any event be an evolutionary, long-term process. These
risks have been to some extent minimized by: the inclusion of substantial
technical assistance and overseas training; the carefal selection by the
MOPH of key project staff; and the development ot implementation programs
and plans that should permit the prompt identification of problems and
application of appropriate remedies during project implementation.
However, the project--the first ever major externally-aided activity in the
sector--remains somewhat experimental and some degree of risk is both
appropriate and acceptable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At credit negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the medical education component would be carrAed out
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association
(para. 3.15).
(b) the borrower shall: (i) carry out a health manpower study
under terms-of-reference determined after consultation with
the Association, not later than June 30, 1986, or such later
date as the borrower and the Association may agree; and (ii)
furnish a copy of such study to the Association for its
review and comments (para. 3.25);



- 29 -
(c) the borrower shall take all such action as sball be necessary
to make ready facilities and related personnel prior to
installation of equipment financed out of the proceeds of the
credit (para. 4.09);
(d) the borrower would maintain the WBLO through the project
implementation period with appropriate functions and staffing
(para. 5.04);
(e) the four provinces would maintain the four provincial WHLOs
through the project implementation period with appropriate
functions and staffing (para. 5.05); and
(f) the borrower would award overseas fellowships, including
foreign language training, on the basis of an overall
implementation plan, in accordance with MOPH's existing
policies and procedures for such training, and will review
the progress of both the fellowships and technical assistance
programs at least once a year, commencing in July 1984; the
borrower and the Association would agree on such
modifications to the above arrangements as may be mutually
satisfactory (para. 5.08).
7.02      The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) the establishment of a revolving fund for the payment of
individual applications for overseas training, technical
assistance, and equipment (para. 4.14); and
(b) State Council approval of the Development Credit and Project
Agreements (para. 5.02).
7.03      Subject to the above condition and assurances, the project herein
proposed would constitute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR80.2 million
(US$ 85 million equivalent) on standard fDA terms.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCE BY SUBCOMPONENT
Project Costs, Including Contingencies
(in US$ millions)
Component/Subcomp onent                    IDA          Local         Total
Contribution Contribution
Part A - Rural Health
Heilongjiang Province                   8.5            11.8          20.3
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region           4.0             6.1          10.1
Shandong Province                       7.9            18.9          26.8
Sichuan Province                        12.4           21.4          33.8
PART A, TOTAL                             32.8 a/        58.2          91.0
Part B - Medical Education
Beijing College of TCM                   2.2            5.7           7.9
Beijing Medical College                 2.4            11.3          13.7
Capital Medical College of China         1.8            7.5           9.3
China Medical University                3.5            10.1          13.6
Guangzhou College of TCM                 1.8            3.3           5.1
Hunan Medical College                   4.1             8.3          12.4
Norman Bethune Medical University        3.6           11.7          15.3
Shanghai Medical College                4.4            16.7          21.1
Shandong Medical College                3.5            11.9          15.4
Sichuan Medical College                 4.3            19.2          23.5
Wuhan Medical College                    3.4            9.3          12.7
Xian Medical College                     3.8            6.0           9.8
Zhongshan Medical College               4.5             8.5          13.0
PART B, TOTAL                           43.3          129.5         172.8
a/ These numbers include local training costs to be financed by IDA; the
amounts are US$1.4 million for Heilongjiang, US$0.6 million for Ningxia
Hui and US$1.9 million for Sichuan.  Other IDA-financed expenditures are
for items requiring foreign exchange.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Project Costs, Including Contingencies
(in US$ millions)
IDA          Local
Component/Subcomponent                 Contribution  Contribution    Total
Part C - Strengthening Management,
Evaluation and Research
(i) National Center for Preventive
Medicine                             3.8            10.5         14.3
(ii) Researchi Center for Health
Planning and Statistics              1.1             3.6          4.7
(iii) Sichuan Institute of Chinese
Materia Medica                       1.0             2,3          3.3
(iv) Project Implementation and
Preparation
(a)  Rural Health Div.              0.3             0.2           0.5
(b)  Medical Education Div.          1.5            1.0           2.5
(c)  Strengthening WBLO             0.5             0.2           0.7
(d)  Future Project Preparation    0.7               -            0.7
SUBTOTAL, (iv)                       3.0            1.4           4.4
PART C, TOTAL                            8.9            17.8          26.7
PROJECT TOTAL                             85.0           205.5        290.5
Charge on The Use of Foreign Capital       --             32.3          32.3
TOTAL Financing Required                  85.0           237.8         322.8



- 32 -                                    ANNEX 2
Page 1
DOCUMENTS AvAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
General
1.   China:  Socialist Economic Development (Annex X, "Population, Health
and Nutrition"), A World Bank County Economic Study, August 1983.
2.   "The Health Sector in China", World Bank Report 4664-CHA, August
1983. (With 11 Supplementary Papers, including 3 on population and
demography.)
3.   Project Proposals from Participating Project Institutions.
4.   "Rural Health and Medical Education Project:  Detailed Cost Tables",
by C. Fogle, April, 1984.
Rural Health
5.   "Notes on Rural Health Care Finance and Planned Birth Program
Effectiveness", by Pi-Chao Chen, June 1982.
6.   "Health Sector Issues in Shangdong Province", by A. Prost et al, PHN
Technical Note GEN 18, April 1983.
7.   "The Health Sector in Sichuan Province", by J.R. Evans et al, October
1983.
8.   "Heilongjiang Province:  Health Sector Background Information Paper",
by A. Prost et al, June 1983.
9.   "Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region:  Health Sector Background Information
Paper", by M. Young and A. Prcst, January 1984.
10.  "Background Data for Appraisal, Forty-Six Counties", by H. Young and
J. van der Gaag, September 1982.
Medical Education
11. "China's Manpower for Medicine and Public Health: Education and
Numbers", by Leo Orleans, March 1982.
12. "Medical Education in China", by J.R. Evans, PHN Technical Note GEN
15, August 1983.



ANNEX 2
- 33 -                                 Page 2
Other
13. "Evaluation of a Research Proposal from the Sichuan Institute of
Chinese Materia Medica to the World Bank", by N.R. Farnsworth and
H.S. Fong, August 1983.
14.  "Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics", by K. White,
September 1983.
15. "Project Summary - National Center for Preventive Medicine", by J.
Koplan, October 1983.



- 34 -                                                   ANNEX 3
PRJFCr IMPLfENATION SOMMULE
Calendar Year 1984          1985            1986             1987          1988              1989
Fiscal Year        FY85             FY6             FY87           FY88             FY89         FY90
QPauters      123   4   123 4   1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4   14    1   2
A. Pural. Health
50%             40%              10%
ConstrLction                4            h *                4-
50%.            40%/            10%
Equipmnt                    4            0 4      - 
B. Medical E;ducation
30%/            30%/            20%             10%              10%
Construction                4            0  -   -                           4 -          4 -4-  *  4
40%             20%              30%            10%
Equiipment                  a                                             144
C. Strengthening Manag<ent
and Evaluation
(i National Center
2(i%            25%2
Constniction                     _ ---  p              4 
4040%0%                          20%
Equtipent               4<
(ii)  Sichlian Institute
55%             45YO
Construction                 54
5 5%            45%.
Equiprrent                           - * 
(iii)  Research Center
50%             50%
Construction            4-            g
50%             50%.
EquiiTent               *            p 4
(iv) Project Implementation
50%             .50
Equipmnent              4



- 35 -
MEDICAL EDUCATION: BACKGROUND DATA FOR
THIRTEEN MEDICAL COLLEGES
Contents
Page No.
Table 4.1: ENTRANCE EXAMINATION SCORES AND PLACE OF ORIGIN OF
FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS, 1980-82. . . . . . . . . . . . .   I
Table 4.2:  ENROLLMENT - HISTORICAL AND PROJECTION. . . . . . . . .   2
Table 4.3:  NUMBER OF UNDERGRADUATES BY SPECIALIZATIONS, 1981-82. .   3
Table 4.4:  NUMBER OF SPECIALIZATIONS, AND NUMBER OF POST-GRADUATES
AND PART-TIME STUDENTS, 1980-82 . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Table 4.5:  EMPLOYMENT OF 1982 GRADUATES. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Table 4.6:  TEACHING FACULTY - BY SPECIALTY, AGE, TRAINING. . . . .   6
Table 4.7:  PRESENT - PLANNED OVERSEAS AND IN-COUNTRY TRAINING FOR
UNIVERSITY STAFF, 1982-83 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Table 4.8:  LABORATORY EQUIPMENTS:  NUMBER OF EXPERIMENTS CONDUCTED,
ACTUAL AND REQUIRED, 1981-82. . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Table 4.9:  EXISTING AND PLANNED CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION . . . . . . .   9



T.blh* 4.    XN8TRANCV EXAM MATON  S(*RtS AIM PLACE OF OIGIN O0  FIRST-VerU S1DJMS. 3980-X2
9380                                                         1981                                                      1482
ntrance Store                   Oritin                         Entrance Scort                Orilitn                     Entrance icTe                     ortRlin
T  I *J   b7   ; bj  7 sithit  C 'l vithin p d/ 2 other P _/  t    aI 2ithic CZ vithin Pt I other P  I                        F (I   o      t    2 withIn Cl withtn Pt toert  S
1. tlejing College of TCU             171   n46    *00         31              0          61       n17    450    450          so          0         5a n    2n    22.6      413  432          an          n        fn
2.  etijica PMd1nI Coll.e.            425   410    414          62             n           3R       420   466    387          61           0        39      421   16.5      464  4b3          6R          A        52
3.  C.Vlt.1 idteI Col7ga               30   442    445          so             0           s0        30   ASO    479          so           n        so       10    3.3      4So  40O          Ian         a         n
.  Chlone  t.cl onleetty             503   341    342          32            6Z            6       3412   472    415         Z6          61         14     4,03   Z.1     441 427            25        rs        30
S. COuiobou College of CN0            242   352    352          21            62           17       24S   406    404          16          70         16     241   13 n      *12 610            30        71        17
6.  ft-  lidIcal College              405   436    370          18            72           10       398   420    420          in          70        20      4n0   10.7      427  *25           to        7n        2n
7.  Nora  e ehwe ?kdlgl U0S3.    317   364    372               31            59           10       495  413    417           23          59         so     401   :3.0      ASS  438           16        59        2S
A.  utn5gbal first ltdical O3liege  501   43S    424            41             0           39       495  4n0    447           54           n        44      400   14.8      474  471           38          n       62
9.  J4ntaoAg 3Y.iiesl Collena         440   3S9    389          13             0          87        443   432    426          14          17        t2      Sll   24.6      434  *21          i6         71         7
10.  Seh-  iSadlol Coll,.              s48   340    379          is            SS           30       489   623    *19          is         61         24      442   26.4      424  419           7         S5        39
It.  Yhao n.dtel Coae                  J5    383    382          73            41           26       349   433    43t          Z?         40         33      432   20.0      437  440          11         56        33
12. Xaln kedticl College               403   33Z    355          25            59           16       479   393    391          26          54        20      486   29.5      381  3h4          19         61        2n
1).  2lho*shan medlael College         455   393    394          22            30           48       405   446    446          RA         NA         NA      402   17.3      456  454          13         49        39
*1  This cmunm indicates ember at total studtnts wio took the college entrance erOtl1ton.                                                                                                                                     I
bl  Coltuna  how msan (S) Entrance esslaLtloa scotas for  alae and feale ..dents respaetivol.
I/  Pa,rent of fl-t yr.. ...deota She.  pl-c. of ori.Sn .    uWsto  t'e  .ry ot the college.
d/  ft-.c of  leat yea.r ...deoaa who.. pl.e of .gstl  ta               h.01   ;theroars-   f ch. -icag.
If  Petcent of first yeat students whose place of origln Is out8lde of the provice of the colnege.
fl  This eolun shows standard deviation of eauanation scotoe of feuale studeats in 1982.
t0 z



Table 4.2: INAOLUIENT - IUISTORI CAL AND PROJECTION
1978-1979           1979-1980             1980-1981          1981-1982        1983-1984    1985-1986    3989-1990   Enrollment
-IZ0                    2                      91                                                                    1999
Collegee                      T   ZYI   tn YI      T   ZY t             in YI T   ZYN In Y  T   ZYI  InYI    N    ZL!        T      Nl      T    NYl       IqS Ce
1.  Beljing College of TCK            410   41      50      516   34    53      686   25      57    956   20    50    1046   19    1202    20    1410   17             1.17
2.  Bel.lng IeAdtcal Colege          13a7   I8      49    18BS   27    51    1940   22        53   2138   21    45    2211   19    2511    17    2620   17             1.04
3.  Capital IedZeal College             0   NA      NA       30  1IO    50       60   50      53      90   33    43      IS0   20      10    127       3r,   20        1.67
4.  China Medical University         131   38       Sl    1692   24    54    2147   23       54   2698   19    53    Z267   17    2132    19    2034   20             n.95
5.    ang..oh.. College of TCQt       236    0      NA      24Z    a    NA      t4Z    0      Nk    2611    0    NA      24(    NA      NA    NA       NA   NA       NA
6.  Hunan Mfedical College           1664   32      27    2161   23    20    2081   20        30   2476   16    28    2051   16    1824    39    1700   20             0.93
7.  Norsan Bethone medlcal Univ.    566    0        NA      425    0    NA      511    0      NA    496    a    NA        IIA  NA       NA    NA       NA   NA        NA
R.  Shanhsai First M4edical College 1067   54        46    1661   36    45    2221   25        42   2579   19    41       NA   NA       NA    NA        NA   NA       NA
9.   h.andong Nedical College         1199   75     42    1323   32    31    1764   25         34   2Z03   20    29    2126   IR    1955    18    17sn   20            0.90
10.  Sichuan Medleal College           642  100      48    1232   48    48    1824   32        47   2303   21    49       440   NA      440    NA       NA   NA       NA
11.  Vchen N-dleal College            1309   51      38    1844   29    31    2368   22        31   2955   20    34    2450   IS    2111    17    1800   20             0.85
12.  Klan ledical College              507   44       a    1021   20    39    1422   29        39   1900   25    39       942   49    1862    25    1840   25           0.99
13.  Zbogashan Medleal College         409    0      NA      449    0    NA      448    0      NA    394    0    NA       310   NA       NA    NA       NA   NA       NA
:t  Percentage of students that are In first year.
bl Percentage of female students that are in firsr year.
eI Vle-a denoce ratio of change of nusber of enrollment betieen 1989 to 1985.
3i



Table 4.3:  MIIMBER OF UtDIERGRADI1ATES BY SPECrALIZATIONS, 1981-82
Hedicine 0/ Pedlatrics   Stomatology  Public Health  Pharmacology al   Other
Colleges                              T bJ I F    T    I F       T      % F    T   2F           T     IF        T    t F   GRANU TOTAL
1.  Beijlng College of TCSt              624   52    -      -       -            -                203      42       -    -          8z7
2.  Beijing Medical College             1315   52    -       -     220    50    30       48       302      52       -    -         2138
3.  Capital dileal College                -    -      -      -      -         -          -         -      -         12h   52        120
4.  China ledilcal University           1910   52   298    66    110    47   270         45        -      -          50    0       2618
5.  Guangzhou College of TCh            1346   28    -      -       -      _     _       _-   -       -       -                    13Rf1
6.  Hunan Medical College               2209   50    -       -      -      -    266      25                    -          -        2475
7.  Norman Bethune Medical Univ.        1636   45    80    60    135    51   240         37        -       -        314   36       2405                                 t
8.  Shanghai First Medical College   1479   8         -      -       -     -    615      40       485      50       -    -         2579                                 '
9.  Shandong Medical College            1451   35    -       -      152    39   276      29       325      43       -    -         2204
10.  Sichuan Medical College             1630   46    _       -     392    52   455       49       527      48        28   43       3032
11.  Wuhan Medical College              175   39   239    50        -      -    712      28        -       -         29   41       295S
12.  Xian Medical College                2083   40    -       -      162    41    -       -        133      43         5   40       2383
13.  Zhorgshaa lie4lcal College          I997   36    -       -      143    25   149      26        -      -         -    -         z2z89
A/ The columns Indicate number of  rtudents In traditional medicine and treditional pharmacology for
colleges of traditional medicine.
bl Total (T) nutber of students earolled in each college by aperIalty.
54



Table 4.4a   ts1 . OF sp0? ec1L17AZTXrS. Ank WK%Eg :P POSI- CRAMA.IS2 An11 PP_Pt-_lT,  21O3o4Ss, tQ(1-.3
_______________________  398)                    1~~942                        2-i982
e  tp.4f * S4t~te   (Kt I?)f * S-p.    Studenta (I ?)  I Sp.  I StdestttS (Fl       I s,    I Stuaenti        42 FT
t.  8besitugtColleg  of tC                                    ID lb   53        t            2      0      a          33     45         5             119         49
2.  SL?c?3ag Medical College                      7          22?      28        7          14?      33     1         164    413        32            968          47
3.  CapStal 1tt8ita&  college                     6           it      21        4           12      B    1221                24        26            203          34
4.  0nA R(dfcal Va0.2-.Iyt                      32           80       26      37           56      16    Zi          5t      t                      333          49
3.  Gusngz;hou Co5Stg  of TCK                     l            I      ItO       1            6       01    1          13     23       1to            177          i
6.  lane. Medlcel Co!llcre                       19           65       1S      Z0           83      17    26          Be,    tq        30            S4?          47
7,  Ntoran Bsethune wit1cal lat'2.               11           It       lB       9            9      33    20          60     30        20            270          44
6.  Shanmghat Firtt HeAtel College               4           49       31       4           69      19     4          80     21         2             56          e8
9.  Shandong Medical Coliege                     ta           17       29      11           22      32    16          33      IR        3            3Ht          53
In.  6     &n  %48,I.tSAt College                 t5           29       34      19           64      31    Z?         128      39       3l            825          55
1i. tah..medical College                          tO           to       Za      1            39     2a    26           63     2.         8            loo 00
\1. 15an IlaMesC ollege                           la           15       40       8           tl      36    15          ?7    40          4           2383          40                                  '0
13.  ?ho,goan Medlcel College                     t4           50      Z2       Z            1       22 2 2           92     tl        33                         42
1( I,    Q of 8ect1aIltCatSon3  Offsevd by eacb college.
b)  Perceteage of fecle atadeote ovt of tbToS n           o(- tf ec"dents cnrolled tn e.ch college.
-Is



Table 4.5:  EPLOYHFNT OF 1982 GRADUATES
Number of Graduates In                                                    Type of Job (K)                     Location (Z)
medicine  01  Public Health    Pharmacy   a/  Pediatrics   Sto.stology   trad. Hed.    AM.   Hospital   Teacning  Othe-   .Ithin  ..Ithn  outside
Colleges                         Uork  Study El work    Study  Work   Study    Work   Study  Work  Study  vorkStudy                   urban rural                       Prov.   Regi.o  Region
1.  Bejing Collge of O                   705   13         -        -      51       4       -        -      -      -      _      _       6      72    0        13        9       69       31        0
2.  5ejtlng Medical College              220   26         63        10  t1O       14       57       23     44      a     -      -        1     44    0        19       36       8n        7       i3
3.  Capital Radical Collge               C
4.  Chna Nedlcal UnIversity              417   34          6        11    -      -         67        2     -      -      -      -        1     50   (I        28       21        gq        1      10
5.  Cuangzhou College of TCH             233    6          -       -       6                        -      -      -      -      -       0      21   67        12        _        04       3        3
6.  Kunan Nedlcsl College                549    9         59         3    -      -         -        -      -      -      -      -        a     30   19        27       24        R8       4        8
1.  Norean Bethone Mledical snle.        533   29          -       -      -      -         _        _      _      _      _      _        3     32   46        1l        3        68       O       32
S.  Shanghal Plrat Medical College    2Z7   15           105        21    49       7       -        -      -      -      -      -        1     34    0        3t       31        58      28       14
9.  Shandong ledical College             216   11         52         7    59       1       -        -       3i     3     -      -       16     18   11        21        9        R9       11       0
10.  Stchuao  edlcal Collage              342   48        122         7   100       4       -        -      77    13      -      -       0      47    9        Z4       20        74       9       I7
11. 'uStan iaedical College               475   25        117        13                                     -             -      -        1     42   22        21       14       R7        5        8
12.  Va. n.d4cal College                 443   31          -        -      -      -         --              28      4     -      -        2     69    4        29        0        96        t       3 t
13.  Zhongshmn  edical College           475   29          59         2    -      -         _        _      28      1    -       -        a     46   20        31        4       8n       273       0
/ T-         col..I* isiea.te ..-br of sraduat.a in traditional .  edicin  and tredl1.on.l phaoacy Itor eollegea ot cadilonal aedielne.
bt Iober of graduates that continue In pout-graduate study.
CJ Inforatlcn v.as not proovlieA by ,apital nedical collese.
-PI



Table 4.6: TEACHING FACULTY - BY SPECIALTY, ACE, TRAINING
Professor and Associate Professor                  Lecturer, Instructor and Assistants
al   bl         ee Years Post 20 Rau CJ /                            Age            Years Post 20 Edu.
colleges                    T   xnf 2 45  1 46-60  7 60+  74-  1 5-6  16+          T    7M  S 45  14640  1604   24-   25        26+
1.  Beijing College of TCM            35  77     0       86    14      17     57   26      260   52    66    32       2     28     70       2
2.  Beijing Medical College          281  63      0      63    37      21     53   26    1015   46    50    48        2     42      54      4
3.  Crapiltt Medical College         121  54     0       50    501      0     54   46      353   45   5S    49        0     24     64      12
4.  China Medical University         231  83      0      72    28      36     58    6      725   66    36    63       1     26      11      3
5.  Guangzhou College of TCM          35  91      0      37    63      NA     NA   NA      348   67    67    30       3     17      NA     NA
6.  Hunan Medical College            138  64      0      i1    29       6     88    6      964   56    61    38       1     32.6   67.3   0.1
7.  Norman Rethune Medical Univ.   281  70        0      79    21      98       1    1     948   54    70    29       1     82      18      0
8.  Shanghai First Medical College 310  71   0.3         68    31.7   21       62   17     985   54    51    48       1     33      61       6
9.  Shandong Medical College          87  82      0      46    54      28      29   43     485   SB    56    42       2      56     41       3
10.  Sichuan Medical College          160  71      0      48    52      Zz      37   41    1064   60    66    34       0     30      69       1
11.  huban Medical College            257  73      0      68    32       1      53   46    1125   58    74    25       1     44      56      n
12.  KUan Medical College               0   0    NA       NA    NA      NA     NA   NA       72   68    68    32       0    100       0      0
13.  Zhongshan Medical College        152  78      0      60    40       3     38   59      828   79    SR    42       0     27      70       3
al These columns indicate total number of staffs under each group.
b, This column tndicates percent of sale Staff.
C/ Columns indicate percent of staff who received post-secondary education for less than 4 years, 5 to 6 years and more than 6 years.
D
X'



Table 4.7:  PRESENT - PLANRED OVERSEAS AND IN COUNTY TtAINING FOR UNIVERSI1T STAFF. 1982-R3
Nu.eer OL_XP. al _                                                                                                 b/
Colleges                    Overseas  In-county  overseas  rn-county  Overseas  rn-co-nty  Overseas  Tn-county  Overseas  Ia-County   Preventive Relates  Cianical  Fpideiniology  Other
1.  Beillng College of                   --                                 -          3           5                                                                              8 39  -  a    -
2.  Beijing Medical College               -          -          -           -         21           -          a          -          _          32                 1              2fl
3.  Capital Medlcal College               -                                 -        Did not cleastfy        -           --                                      -               66             -         -
4.  China Medical University              6          -           I          -         39          13          8          1s         -           -                 I              50             7          1
5.  Cual.gzhou College of TC0             -          -          -           7         12          II         -           -          -           -                -               it             -          t
6.  Hunan Medical College                 -          -          -           -         1i           -         34          2r-                    2                 2              39             1          3
7.  Norman Bethune Medical Univ.          I          -          -           -         23          25          -                                 -                -               23             -          -
8.  Shanghai First Medical College        -          -          -           -         34           4         In           9         -           -                 6              35             5
9.  Shandong Medical College              -           -         -           -          4          in         22          12         -           -                 -              25             I          -
10.  Slchuao Nedical College               -          -          -           -         19           4          -          12         -           -                 -              la             I          -
11.  Wuhan Medical College                                        I                    33           9         -2                     -           -                 2              31                       -
1Z.  Xian Medical College                  -          -          -           -          6          11         -            7         -           -                -                6             1I
13.  Zhongshan Hedleal College            -           -          -           -         26           8          4           5          1          -                 3              28             0
a/  The code for the types of training are as follow:
A - doctoral degree
B w uaster's degree
C - advanced nondegree training (I year or more)
D - short-term crsining (3 months - I year)
E - other
b, The nu,ber of overses fellosvahip whose content of training Is In the following areas: preventive, clinical, epidemiology, other (Include language, administration).
(DW
C1



Table 4.8:  LJAB0RATORY 3011IPENTS:  UlMBER OF EXPERIMENTS CONDuCTeD, ACTUAL AND REOUIRED, 1981-82
First Year          Secoind Near           Third Year             Yourth Year           Fifth Year
Colleges                     #S a/ #A D/ 4R c/   *S    #A    OR          PS    #A    4B         OS    JA    OR        tS     fiTA -R
1.  Beijiog College of TCH             14   231   334        13   260   364        15   308   447        14   277   362          3    60    80
2.  Beijing Medical College             7   380   473         7   757   954         7   707   967          5   333   464         3   185   228
3.  Capital Hedical College             5   540   288U7)    4   306   324           3   2t4   336          3   178   323        -      -      -
4.  China Medical Univeraity            4    76    85         4    96   103         6    63    65         11    93   117        -      -      -
5.  Guangzhou College of TCM            3    59    80         3   159   198         2    74    99         -      -      -       -      -      -
S.  f7unen K-d<Lcl Co1leie              4   115      -        6   379      -         5   162      -           -         -        5    /8      -
7.  tlormn Bethuac i'.dical Univ.       3    69    85         A   203   234          5   149   178        13   183   28Z         -     -      -
8.  Shanghai Fir3t Medical CsllcZe   3   243    10             3   613    21         3   298    17         2    88      8        1    96      5
9.  Sh2zdong iedicaL Collego            4   136      -         7   364     -         7   193      -        3   286      -        -     -
10.  Sichrugn ReAlcsl College            8   509   582          8   8n7   8.96        8   798   932         8   4b7   494         -     -
11.  Wuhan Mledical College              4   481   528         4   358   1.38         4   292   357         2    2(1   43         1    99    89
12.  XIan Medical College                1    26    22         -      -     -         2    33    23        -      -      -        -     -      -
13.  Zhongshan Medical College           3    58    67         5   109   IZ1         7   193   261          3    67    10         2     3      i1
al  #S - Nuiber of epectalizatUona that are offered by each ctllege.
b/  #A = Actual number of expertients that were conducted.
CI 8R - Required number of experiments that were conducted.
04
4D 



TaUle 4.9: EKISTING AND PLANI.D CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION
Clasaroz' (sqm)            Laboratory (sqc)           Library (sq.)            Other (eqa)
Colleges                      E&/ R         CE                   R       C l               R     C        E        R       C
1.  Beijing College of ICH          3530      -    7000       13701     24000   22000       885     -    5100    12088      -    1200
2. Betitng Medical College          4070      -        -      49451       117      785     1950    -        -     1760      -        -
3.  Capital Medical College          630    510      600        138(?)   980     8200      3000    -   12000      1200      -    4250
4.  China Medical University        4402   13nO    4000        8484      848     4238      3550   320    2500     9745      -    3n00
5. Guangzhou College of TCH         1992    379        -       1036     6906     4000        -      -    5130        -   2603    1000
6.  Hmunan l5dical College          5970   5751   10000       15164        -     6400      4000    -        -     6685      -    R000
7.  Norman Bethune Medical Univ.    4980      -        -       3444        -      1500     1410    -    6500    13344       -
8.  Shanghai First Medical College  3952       -    6900      45051        -    10000      3531     -   12000     8386       -
9.  Shandong Medical College         2000      -       -       4100        -         -     6000    -        -      1100      -       -
10.  Sichuan MedicaL College         3093      -    2376        6627     3564      1566     8461     -       -    31071      -        -
11. Wuhan Medical College            7289   2460    3500       11000     6500    13000      7163  2100    3000     2100      -        -
12.  Xian Medical College            1674      -        -       2608        -        -      5454    -        -    20055      -
13.  Zhongshan Medical College       4140      -    1800        5302      706    10700      3316    -    4000    19646   1239    2050
af E  - Existing area (sqa) that is available in the colleges.
b/ R - The area (sqn) that is planned to be renodeled.
C/ C - The area (sq.) that is under construction.
Ob
x >



- 45 -
RURAL HEALTH: BACKGROUND DATA FOR PARTICIPATING
PROVINCES AND COUNTIES
Contents
Page No.
Table 5.1:  General Summary, Heilongjiang, Ningxia, Shandong
and Sichuan, 1982 . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .   .    I -  4
Table 5.2: Health Services Utilization, Heilongjiang, Ningxia,
Shandong and Sichuan, 1975-1982 . . . . . . . . . . . 5 - 12
Table 5.3: Health Services - Growth. in Resources, Heilongjiang,
Ningxia, Shandong and Sichuan 1975-1982 . . . . . . . 13 - 16



Table 5.1:    GENERAL SUNMRY, HEILONGJIANG, 1982
Population                                   Production                    Health Status                                             Health ServIce.
Hitllon   2 Rtral    2 IllIterate            Agrlculture            Indu;strial     CDR 0100    CBS 0/00    Bed a 10   Staff    10           h. 0      Y        Cap. Const. Y  I wIth oHS 5/
per capita Y          per capSto *                                Pop If         o               per capita 31    per c.plta 47
Province lellonglang              32.6         62              16                 174                    764            5.2         16.1             17              29               4             1                    98
Shua (p) 6/                        5.9         83              RA                 221                    t79            5.4         15.6             14              21               3              .24                 98
Suihua (cy 71                     .7         75              17                 276                    227           4.9          16.6             14              20               3             1                    93
Hailun ')                         .8         e8              1i                 274                    128           5.3          16.1             13              19               2              .18                 97
Helhe Ip)                          1.5         75              NA                 167                    154            5.2         15.0             20              33               4             I                    99
aet'an (c1                        .4         66              16                 193                    221           4.9          14.1             12              25               3             1                    94
Hudanllane (p)                     3.2         60              NA                  130                   552            4.9         16.2             17              29               4             1                    97
Hing an (c)                       .4         .8              is                 256                    294           5.9          18.2             15              23               3            2                     97
ConahuajIa.X (p)                   5.4         80              NA                 191                    235            6.1         17.8             15              23               2              .2                  97
Slangzht (r)                      .6         69              22                 152                    255           4.7          13.4             11              21               2             1                    91
Btoalarx                          .6         84              22                 220                    126           6.5          17.5             15             IB                2             1                    93
l4.3Iang tDI                       4.3          ha             NA                  113                   377            5.0         15.7             17              30               4              .3                  98 .,
DiM   e                           .3         78              16                 165                    256           6_4          15.2             17              21               3                                  97 C
fPJin (C                          .4         4              12                 325                    M92            5.3        1.3              11              22               3              .                   93
sS " pang (p2                      4.4         86              NA                 230                    162            5.0         16.0             14              22               3              .11                 98
tZh.. (c)                        0.7         89              20                 1QI                    106            4.9         13.7             10              19               2              .)2                 96
p.rehan (c)                     0.5          85              !5                 4 1                    157            5.1         15.7             12              21               ?              .29                100
I'drbin City                       2.5         17              NA                   5                   1876            5.7         17.6             3R              79               6             1                   100
Olf0har City                       '.2         30              NA                   57                  1315            5.2         16.7             25              44               9             2                    99
legang City                         .6          17             NA                   35                   955            4.8         13.4              a              22               4             1                   100
Shoangyaah-. Cl-.                   .4          22             iNs                  25                   65c            4.5         13.8            I"               29               4             1                   ID0
Jill City                            .8        27              NA                   1                   783            4.7         13.0             12              20               3             0.4I                 98
fLaq1n- C!t)                        .8         '44                                 13                   9397            2.5         13.2             NA              NA              NA            SA                    NA
Yichun Zity                        1.2          13             NA                   73                   163            5.7        1.2               6              17               3             0.34                 98
Da Pinggenling p3                   .   i                      14                   76                   959            3.h         1'-2               7              il                            3 0.10               96
1f Total n.-.ber of beda in pro.tn e, prefectutre nr county, per te  th'isand population.
2t Total health staff in province, pret.- 're or countv, excluding staff fron enterprise health uoite.
3t Recurrent health expenditure (Y) for all health unite in province, prefecture or county (exclude enterprise health e.pendtture) per capita.
'I Capital construction expenditure in province, prefecture or county. excluding expenditure from. enterpriee.
5t Percentage of brigades with brtgade health 3tatioo.
61 (p) . prefecture
't (c) - county                                                                                                                                                                                                         fD i
I-4>C,
0t
HiU% 



Table 5.i: GEN~ERAL SUM4ARY, NINGXIA, 1982
Population                               Production                     Realth Statuis                                          Health Services
Killion   I 8bursl    2 Illiterate    Agrtculture             Industrial         CDRI 0/00     CEll 0100     Bed a  0      Staff It 10      6. Exp  T      cp        Cost    It  fth B3lS~I
Per Cspita Y         Per Capita Y                                    Pop3!         POP'!           per capitt3l  pe-t -apItal
Province Nitngxia                 3.9        82              29              197                    365            6.1          29.6           is             30               6                2                95
YI-nan (p16/                      1.3        es              27              247                    348            5.6          27.8           34             24               5                2                 92
Wuthong Tc9jI                    .2        83              26              261                    266            5.1          25.5           16              In2             4               NA                95
Toogxit2 Cc                      .2        96              35               89                     28            6.7          40.6           12              36              4                 .4              89
qht,ulshan (p)                     .3        60              20              238                    3162           4.5          20.6            9             20l             4                 16 
Pingluo (c)                      .2        as              28              243                     80            5.5          23.8            9             22               4                 1               66
*.".sun (p)                       1.3         96             39              300                    70             8.3          40.6           33              19                                2                91
C.uyuan (c)                      .5        95              36              106                     37            8.1          40.2            51             13                               3                 96
Ilalfuso (c)                    .2         91              39               49                     23            8.0          45.4           12              16              4                5               3320
YI~.cua  City                     .7        63              20              254                    653            4.3          19.1           130             73             23                5                 96
ritaJ iuasber of beds In province. prefecture or county, per ten thousand Population.
Z/Total heW2h3 stafft InProvince, prefecture or county. excluding staff from enterprfee health units.
if Recurrent health expenditure (Y) for all health units In province. prefecture or rounty (exclude enterprise health expenditure) per capita.
V Capita, roastructltn expenditure ini province, prefecture or county, excludinx expenditure from enterprise.
"/ Perrentage of brigtades t" t. brigade health station.
6/ (PI - prefecture
71 (c) - county
3-a



bU16'5.1: GENERAL SUMNRY, SHANGDONG, 1982
Population                                Production                      Health Status                                           Health Services
t11il ton   I tural    7 Ililitara:        Atriculture         IndustriSl          CDR 0D0l    CPI 0100    Bed X 10    Staff 1 10          h.  eCp           ap      onst    '     tI with   S51
per captta Y       per capit: Y                                   PopTl        io               per capita3l   per cmpita`/
Province So_ gdong               74,9         90              28                 301                   490           6.3         Id.1.            14              24              3             2                    88
')ingdao (p)6/                    4.2          70             20                 230                  l581           6.0          38.2            19              36              4              .2                  9t
J5aooan GC)/                      .8        96              32                 355                   281           6.3          16.8            13              17              2              .2                  98
Zibo (P1                          2.2          it             18                 239                  1771           6.0          20.1            20              32              4              .4                  96
Llnri (c)                         .5        A5              20                 325                   162           6.3         23.2             is              19              2              .2                  96
Jinan (p)                          1.3         66             19                 1s8                  1310           6.7          17.0            23              57              4             1                    97
Zhangqiu tcl                      .9        98              35                 304                   170           7.1          15.4             4              16              2             5                   100
Zatbuan (p)                      2.7          f9             31                 254                   489            5.4         19.9             IS             23              4              .2                  19
Tenaxco (C)                     1.5         93              32                 306                   301           6.5         17.3             12              IS              2              .03                 86
Vents$ (p)                          .2        91              16                 385                   516           6.7          17.9            IS              23              3             2                    96
1e1i80 (e)                        .t        95              17                 4SO                   4)0           8.1          16.2            10              16              2             1                    98
eieifgn  (p)                      9.0          93             25                 396                   471           6.4          16.9             14             20              2              .2                  94
Vidu (c)                         .t         92              22                 341                   578           5.4          14.9            11              16              2              .04                 84
Ibisn (p)                         5.4         92              27                 238                   I80           6.8          18.1            I5              22              3              .1                  71
l6jentei ('7                     .4         96              25                 4t?                   168           6.4          l8.]           1               19              2              .4                  96   1
Oexhou (p3                        5.6         93              29                 338                   269           6:7          17.4             t4             24               3             .2                  76  0
Finguati (c)                     .4         94              25                 560                   264           6.9          12.1            16             tlS              2           NA                     72
unyt (tP                         10.5         96              36                 274                   140            5.6         19.4            11              16               2             A                   67
R11sbo (e)                       .9         91              33                 380                    96           5.3          15.3            10              t6               I             .3                  99
Junan tc)                        .8         98              34                 422                    84           5.4          13,5            10              14              1               Oh                 98
tlaan (p)                          5.8         90             27                 269                   329            6.1         17.8             11             21               2             .1                  97
Taist ()                        1.3         to              21                 286                  1I1            6.3          Me.8             a              16               1             .1                  S
Latwu (c)                       1.0         93              27                 254                   440           5.5          14.4             9              15              1           NA                     97
Jiinit (p)                        5.6         91              33                 354                   304           6.2          20.5            13              23               3             .2                  89
QItu (C)                          .5        95              30                 425                   194           7.3          17,5            10              18              2              .04                 97
Lisocbeng (p)                     4.5         93              31                 347                   269           7.0         21.1             I5              25               3             .1                  C9
Cuansian (c)                      .6        96              3)                 403                   182           7.4 i9,7                     12              19              2              .3                  96
moe. (p)                           7.3         9S             38                 232                   107            5.9         22.0            l0              21               2             .1                  89
Jtsnxtin  cc)                    .9         96              38                 245                   102           5.3          15.4             8              19              2           tlA                   96
It Tot*l namber of beds in province, prefecture or county, per ten thousand population.
2/ Total health staff in provitnce, prefecture or county, exadudiog staff from enterprise health unite.
31 Recurrent health expenditure (Y) for *11 health units In province, prefecture or County (exclude enterprise health expenditure) per cepita.
41 Capital constructton expenditure in province, prefecture or county, excluding expenditure ftom enterprige.                                                                                                      b
5/ Percentage of brigade. with brigade health station.
6/ (p3 * pretecture
7/ (c)   c county



Tabe , 1  GENERAL SUMNARY, SIClIUAN, 1982
F_______ Populetlon  __        _         Production                       Health Stattu_                                          Health Seruteps
Hlillon    I Rural    2 Illiterate         Agric,ltare         lnd,srt rl.1        COR 0/00    CBR 010n    Ped    f l    S7rff f   11     h. Eu   Y        crar.                ,.tIh Bnls
pef capita Y        per capita v                                  P-,I/           27            ip. apit.11   "r -hpl; 
I-v nce Sichuan                  99.7         86              23                 234                   302           7.0          17.8            15                    24 7                         8h.
letIian (p)61                     7.9         93              22                 264                   181           6.4          17.2            12              19              2              .0o                 89
Zi:tonq (Z)71                  13.          93              21                 168                    91           6.4         18.8             In              16              I              .03                82
Wen3iaon  (v)                     5.3         91              22                 341                   280           6.0          15.5            16              19              2             2                    89
Shtfanq (c)                      .4         86              25                408                   268            6.4         15.0             17             22               2            1                    96
.uRlghan tc)                     .5         87              22                 371                   333           6.1         19.1             19              25              2              .04                 95
Chongqting (o)                    6.5         56              14                 184                  1036           6.2          17.4            19              37              3              .23                 82
Qt]jang (c)                      .9         o4              21                 212                    98           6.9         14.5              9              16              1              .33                 73
Ct..geob  Cc)                    .8         89              I?                 241                    74           6.4          18.9             8              16              I            n .                   7l
De.. Ce)                         .8         92              24                241                    107           6.0         20.0             I2              17              1              .04                94
'Cengdf   (p)                     4.0         31              16                 197                  1206           6.2          17.0            24              62              4              .44                 96
Shusniltu fc)                    .8         91              15                 319                   148           6.1         15.3             15              17              1            0.                    82
HianyanS (p)                     12.2         87              26                 246                   156           7.5          14.7             if.            19              2              .05                 91
Sant4i (C)                      1.3         95              26                211                     82           6.1         14.0             14              IS              I            0                    88
Daxian (p)                        9.1         95              26                 250                   115           7.2         16.3             14              17              1              .04                 98
Dathu (c)                        .9         93              25                 3127                  142           7.6         12.5             11              16              1              .03                 98
NaneoanCg (P)                    10.1         95              26                 206                   107           6.9          17.0            13              16              t              .04                 93
ce3SI*n (C)                     1.0         95              25                206                     65           7.1          15.5             9              13              1            0                     90
rtbin (p)                         9.4         90              24                 214                   174           6.7          19.8            It              22              2              .,th                84    1
IfJ1.0og ;c)                     .8         92              24                 245                    80           6.4          15.6            10              is               1             .03                 955
118015t (yl                       31.7         47             20                 193                   S57            6.0         18.3             IR            U17 1                                               97    D
Fahua (Ce)                      1.0         90              19                 235                   119           7.0          19.8             9              3F              I                                  96
Ledhan  IP)                       6.1         79              20                 2sn                   207            6.3         18.4            13              71                              ..                  9
Eset (C)                          .4        76              17                 204                   127            5.6         18.0            10              21               !             ."t                 8,
Yaan (p)                          1.3         90              21                 265                   191           6.3          19.3            21              41              sIrX                               58
lnu ali tc)                       .3        94              27                 245                    Sh           7.6          23.7             9              24              2               23                 83
Fultng (p)                        5.8          95             25                 210                    92           6.8          19.3            12              18               2             .12                 92
Ianehnan Ce)                     .6         91              19                 237                   156           6.2          15.7            12              15               1             .12                 96
Uanxfon Cp)                        7.5         94             24                 205                    98            7.8         16.8             12             19               2             .05                 83
UJangpit (ce)                    .8         94              20                 198                    91           7.4          14.2            12              16              1             0                    65
Dulkou City                         .8        35              24                 123                  1328            4.9         15.7            19              38              6              .65                 69
TongchnS  (p1)                    7.2         95              21                 256                  18            6.2          17.1            12              38               1             .08                 91
Abhsaag (p)                         .7        80              31                 324                   259            9.4         27.3            26              47               9            2                    70
Ganeuant (D)                        .7        94              44                 295                   114           Il.R         29.2            30              67              11            1                    26
LanegabsI  Ci')                    3.2        93              38                 212                    93          11.1          32.0            18              32              4             1                    39
11 Total nmber of beds in province. prefecture or County. per ten thousand population.
2/ Total heclth staff In province, prefecture or county, excluding cseff from enterprise health units.
31 Recutrent health expeodlture (Y) for *al health units In province. prefecture or county (exclude enterprise health e.pendit,.re) Ver capita.                                                                       0
C apit-al con.tecc-ian eP-endirre tn provfnce, preFrecure or county, excluding expendlture from enterprise.                                                                                                           .1Si
51 FercAUtate of brigadts with brigade health station.                                                                                                                                                                0
_-un
6, ip) . preleetur.
71 tC) ' County



TaVle- 5.2: HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, P4EILONGJIANG, 1975-1982
County Hou p. beds/                           C                 o. 21         Entergrlte  leds 31    Other 8ledt 4/               Onpatten Ih 0 Pop.                1*utps t Len*t /      upo.
I982    7 Ct.s.    S Chnnsc            11                                         000  P.  -9B2   2 CO..s.   2 C                                     e       982 Z    C-nR.    7, xCh.o.,
1915-80       *980-82                   1975-80      1980-82               1982                   198*                   1975-80      1980-82                1975-H0      1989-82
Avwrag  ot all couottle. (4b)                 3          12           5              7         20          -I                     4                      1           It          23            7        315          14           11
A-0s.ge of   .1lo..Rgjtog  -o-nti..           6           3         -1               6      -0..            7                     6                     2            12           2           -I       366           -3            6
8o1*wa (p)
Saiho  I.)                                 4           4          -2               6        -6          33                     5                      3           10         -12             7       231         -34           -9
Hallun tc)                                 4          -7          19               8          s           7                   NA                      2           11          -5            11       229           -I           -3
H.1b. (p)
Bei'an(c)                                  4          -6          -2             -5           9         29                    NA                      3           11          -6             7       429           IU            S
16.d.-n.j*. (P)
Iling'an (e)                               5           0           0               8       -12           14                   18                      3           16          -7            16       *54         -12            16
Somshoe71-n8 (p3
Shangthi (c)                               4         -12          -1               6       -t0          -I                     9                      1           12            5         -II        143         -2S             6         tn
sin.lon (c)                                4          15          -1               9       -10          20                     1                      2           11          16             2       266                         2          
Heijiang (p)
8o0l  (c)                                  6           1           4               9          6           5                                           1           I1t           I                   534,           1          -4
F.Jln (e3                                  5         -11         -12               5         -3         -8                    1A                      1           12          -9          -1       4'.'           J             3
fntn8jI- (P)
Ne.h.   )                                  4          18           7               4          6          13                    1                      2           *0          15             1       149         -1            40
Keahan (c)                                 5         -11          -I               6       -29           -6                    5                      2           14          -6            4*       386         -23            38
F0'
P,
I-. ?
03'.



Tab1e-.2f HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, REILONGJIANG, 1975 - 1982
(continued)
ten1th ot Stay (days)                Occupancy Rate    S/   I Referral to County HONP)'0OOl Fup             I Delilerlesl/noo Pop.
1982   Z Cban8e   2 ChanSe        282   x Chnge   t Change    Tvo2            ange    g Chnnge           I8 Zl   Changte   1 Change
1975-80    1980-82                1975-80    1980-82               1975-80    1980-82                    1975-80    1980-82
Average  f all c..untrie  (46)           12          2            5         90          2           4         5         22           S             10                   49
A.e.ege of NeIlolgjIang counties         12         -3            2         92         -4           4         8          6          2              11         6         43
Sulbus (p)
SuLhus (c)                             13          3          14         88        -13           24         7        -14          4             NA         NA         NA
ltaiun (c)                             13         -8          19        103         -6           13         7         22         It               4       -21         23
Relbe (p)
ael'an(c)                              14          4          -7         94          5            2         7         -2         13              20         4         12
Kudanjiiso  (P5
Ming'an (C)                            11          7          -8         94           9           9        III       -24                         2I t 1 n
Sooghoajians (3I                                                                                                                                                                             1
Shsngthi (c)                           33         -8           9         97          10          -I         1         27         27               7        is         J9 
ainilan (c)                            11         -3          -7         89         -2           -4         7         17          3              20        3)          a
HeJMang (p)
toll 8 c)                              12         -3           7         95         -3            5        i0         -I         10               5         3         14
Fejtn (c)                              10        -13         -14          70       -11         -14          8        -13        -11              10       -53        254
Renjling (p)
Hehe (C)                               14         -4           6         93          -6           S         S          9        -20               2        -2         15
Keahan (c)                             13         -6          -4         93        0.4          1.0         a         13        -16              17       -26         63
2/ Nu-ber of beds in county hospital per ten thou6and population.
2/  Total number of beds in conaune health centers per ten thousand populatlon.
3/  Tot.1 number of beds tn health unic within enterprises per Len thousand populatlon.
41  Other beds viathin county per ten thousand population.
31  Occupancy rate l  cal ul-ted by (8 of lnp,tlents x ave dura;ton of stay) t (hospital beds X 165).                                                                                     0b'
0'



Table5.;2. HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, NINGXIA, 1975-1982
Co...c  Hoe* 3~dl  o     OC 3.d/'OOOPaP.   7/   Zt~..  jk.  Oth-  ak..it                     zs.Ptf.nt./PoOO EP        ~     Otp.tf.nC./ro     P~.E
iTit2        gi    inga            1       2,,-c  Change   2 Change     '0000 Pop       '0000 Pop      1982   2 Change   I Change    1982   2 Change   I Change
1973-80    1980G-2                 1975-80     1980-82           1982            1982                  1975-80      1980-82              1975-80      1980-82
Average of all counties (464              3        22                        I 7      20           -I          4                     I          10         19           5        115          9           10
A.erage of Iingslto co.uati.              5        23           16           5        13          -4           7                     2          12         28          26        446          0           34
liann Cr)
I&,o,g lc)                              a        -7           9            3        47         -2S           2                     4          21        NA            4        707        NA             7
Ton41tn (e)                                                  52            7       -It          -7          NA                   NA           12        85           27        682       -24           181
SbiIs.b4.. (pl
Pingluo le)                             6        26          -2            2       -31         -23          12                   NA           16         3           21        428        11            -8                I
G,n"   (p)                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ln
Co,uan (a)                              2        80          -4            3        34           16         NA                  0.1            4         if          19         94          1           _9 -
HIaiumn (c)                             3        -4          24            8        29            2         NA                   '.4           7         13           6        117         12           -5
92N
I-I 



Table  5.2i   HEALTH  SERVICES UTILIZATION, NTflKIA, 1975  -  1982
(continued)
Length of Stay (days)           Occupancy Rate  SJ   U Refgrral to County Ito pooo Pop   * Delvet1O5hI0OO Pop
1982   2 Change   I Changi       1982   1 Change   2 Change  1982   2 Change   1 change            1982   t Change   2 Chance
19I5-80    1980-82               1975-80    1980-82             1975-80    1980-82                 1975-80    1980-82
Average of all counties (46)           12         14           4         90          2          4          5         14          7         10        90          49
Averale  of Nilngila counties          13         16           6         81         16         16          9         60         29         20        41           48
Yinnon (p)
Yaahona (e)                          10         NA          -I         72         NA         -5         13        NA          15        49         NA         121
Tongain (c)                          13         11          29         79         74          8         12        166        45           5        92          26              qn
Shtzutshen (p)
Pngluo (c)                           13          4          26         86        -15         56         12        11         52         3S         96          57
Cuyumn (p)
Cuyuan le)                           I4         59         -14         79         -2          7       0.5           2          2         10        -5           19
Ustyuso (C)                          11        -1t         -12         91          s         13        NA          NA         NA          2       -18          -1
1/ Number of beds Itn county hospital per ten thousand populatlon.
21  Total nmuber of beds In comune healtis centerg per ten thousand populaLlon.
3/ Total number of beds In health unlts vithin enterprises per ten thousand populatton.
41 Other beds withio county per ten thousand population.
51  Occupancy rate ts calculated by (I of  lnpattents x ave durstlon of stay) t (hospital beds x 365)O
Oi
W;N
LA



Table 5,2._ HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, SHANGDONG, 1975-1982
Coont, Hoop. Aodo7'Od    3 Pop.If      'AC Bed.P0000 Pop.   8    Et.e p             J..e  Vedehi Oth-e 0cdu t     .n2.otePO030 fPop.           Ootpo.leonto/7'0 o' _
1982   2 Change   2 ChUnge         1982   2 Change   I Change           '000              0000 Pop         1982   t Change   2 Change        1982   1 Change   2 Change
1975-80     1980-82                1975-80     1980-82           1982             2982                   1975-80      1980-82               1975-t0    1980-82
Aeng-     f .11  --oIn.i. (46)             3         22             5             7        20         -I             4                  1            10          19          5        315          9          Jo
Awe..g, of Shendong countles               3          33            7             8        40         -I             2               0.6              7          36          4        235         21           6
Qingdao (p)
Jtotu.n (c)                              3         49            -2             9         8         -2            N5               0.1             10         ff^          I        163      N.A.           -1
Ribo (p)
Unilt (c)                                7.        tiN           -3             3        24         -)            tI               0.6              t         87.         11        254        124         1l
J2nan (p)
Zbangqtu (c)                             2         63            -2             1        2           3             1                 0              6         28          -9        244         17          -2
Z-.bno.. (p)
Tenltn (c)                               2          8            -3             7        4b         -o             2                  3             7           8         -8        188         -2           1
W..t-W (p)
Teseata(c)                               3          4            19             7         6         -4             1.                 I             5          11         -S        2' '5                   1     
WUnf..s (p)
Idu (c)                                  3         25            27             8        It          2            NA                                                      It.2  I  '.  II  1.1  ,           -2
I.to1i (p)
Ru*ataI (c)                               3          3           13            11        n9          -2           NA                HA              6          19        -I1         .R,.       49           5
Vs.h- (p)
PIlaltyn l(e)                            4         33            16            12        32         10            NA                NA             II         5I           0        338       -11           19
Lt.yS (p)
lidgao te)                               2         68            12             8        89         -2            NA                NA              4          2          32        139         I0          11
Juna (c)                                 2         16            15             7       237         -2            NA8              0.4              6         25         -11         8e8       21           -8
1.I.. tP)
Tuls  (e)                                1         -2             1             6        21           2           ffA                 I             4          38          4        182          5          19
L..(e)                                   2        102            -2             7        24          1             5                NA              5         77          -7        139        75            5
Jilnitl (p)
qof. (c)                                 4          I3           -2             6        45           t           MA               0.1             t0          54        -13        402         30          I7
UIsoieng (P)
G n-I.. (c)                              I         50            17             9        14          3            IU                12              8         S2          50        268        81           Is
Re,. (p)
sbgaalan Cc)                             3         15            -3             5        51        -10            NA               V.2              6         13          -9        360         to           9
tn



55                                                            ANN        - 5.-.
Page 10 of 16
Tfible 5.Z*i HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, SHANGDONG, 1975-1982
(continued)
4nsb o         Sy d.ys3      _    oceuspl-   M te   SI          referral to County oosp/ 000 Pop            I Dellv.rtr o'00 Po0p
198t   S Change    UChang.          1982   t Change    2 Charge       1982   S Change   Chng                   19821   Chansn   S Chan
1975-80     1980-82                 1975-80     1960-82                1975-80     1980-82                    1975-o0      1980-82
Av.nag.   .l11 ..untles (46)              12          14            4         90           2            4        14           7           5              10        9D          49
Aver.&* of Smadona countles                12           7            5         87        10.1            1         3          IA        -11               17        31          76
ilaonun  Ic)                             11         MA           -5         102         NA           -2         NA         NA          NA               11        NA        533
Zibo (pI
Lie    c cC)                             1o         MA          -14         207         HA           17          3         NA                                     MA 3  HA    67
Jlna (p)
Zhangqlu.  c)                            12         IS            3          82        -10           -3          2          11          6              13         19          by
Zsochuon (p)
Tenxian                                   9         -3            9          91         -3            3          5          A         -14              24         28          l8
YontaL (p)
Y xl.n (c)                               13        -15           17          71         -7           -6          1        -3;         -19              12         37        194
Welfang tp)
Y14u (c)                                 12        -11           26          86           4          12          2         46          12               13       -17          10
Nulimn (p)
iluantal (c)                             14         20           13          74          38         -16         NA         NA          NA              20        -29         124
DeZhou (p)
Ptngyuan Cc)                             11          a           -2          83         22          -15       u.3          11         -56              27         22         -4
L2nyt (p)
iosheo (c)                               14         38           13          e5        -16           32       0.2           5          -5              Li         26          9
Junan Cc)                                13         -7           17          8I       0.03           -9          3         38         -12               6        189        -21
Talsn (p)
Titon (c)                                t0        -11           -9          85         25           -7      U.01         -24         -41              17          7         54
Laiwu (c)                                13         Sl            7          89         32            2       0.1          16          14               9         32           1
J0ln8g (p)
Qufu (e)                                 it         -3           14          90          13           1          1          74        -32               55        39          78
Llsochang (p)
CuMaflin tc)                             14          6          -18         102         36            6        NA          NA          NA               7         38         21
Had (p)
Shansian (c)                             13         -I            7          t3         -3          0.3        44           3           7              10         16        -17
1/ Number of bod. In tounty hospital par ton thousand populLtIon.
2/  Total number of bde4  in comuno hIalth centers POT ten thounand populatiun.
if  Totat number of bed, tin   asitMa   untt wItMhLn entstps4ae  per ton thou%4Ad populatIon.
4/ Other bed* within county par ten thousand population.
/  Occupancy rate 1t  calculsted by tt of inpatsnto   a sve duration Ml stay) * Chospital bds * 365).



Table 5.2:  HEALTH SERVICES UTILIZATION, SICHUAN, 1975-1982
County Hosp. Bcd .'000         Pp.4   0lC Beed'.V0000 Pop.         Ent'.         de    Other Yed.           InpacIents/'O0U  Pop.           OoIpstsenta/FOOo 0  P0
t98l2   2 ChangBe   t Change      1982   Z Change   S ChanSe           '1100 Pop        70    Pop       1982   2 Change   Z Change    982   S Change   Z Change
197S-80    19S0-82                1975-80     1980-82           1982             1982                  1975-80    1980-82                1975-80    1980-82
Average of  II -,,qotee (46)               3       22            5          7         20            1               4               1             10       19            5        315          9          IO
Average ot Sichuan counties               1        23            S          7         35            1               3               1             10       24             7       316         17          11
b'et jlan (P)
Zizbong (c)                             3        16          22          7          32            5               1            0.3               8      1U             3        234        16           9
wenjieug (p)
Shitang (c)                             5        14          45          7        -20             9               5              4              14       44           14        772        23           16
G-snghta  (c)                           4        34          22          11         13          -13            0.3               4              11       16          -14        574        17            4
Chongqing (p7
Qljiang (e)                             3        -1          23           5         -1           44               9            0.1                       t oB         IS        104        32            I
Chansbtaos (c                           3        67          -2           4         -3           -2               6            0.3              It       24            0        220        -3            4
Data (c)                                2        24           2          9         90          -13                1            0.2               J       25           -4        294        49           11
Chengdu (P)
Sluangllu  We)                          A        38          10          11         W9           l8               7              1              It       r4           32        631'        f,          it
Hlanyang (P)
.naIt (e)                               2        -2          -I          10         28          -II            0.2               * .                     1             I       .           ::          1.
ILaXilas (P)
Dah  (c)                                2        -2          -I          8          -r           -I            0.s               2               7       ->            *        *1        -it          1
lanchrong (p)
Gasnogn (e)                             2        64           4           6         21            S               I               I              a       18           31        2131       6            is
tibin (p2
Heljlto  (c)                            2       100            0          r        250            0               1            0.3               6      168           -9         ZO0        -I          -l
Zlg0n6 (p)
FUsIun (C)                              2        23            6          6         16            0             0.4               1              r       21           I2        243         IS          39
lashman (p)
mel (c)                                 3        -3          -3           5          S          -18              12              2              36        0           23        406       -18           -2
Y'aan (p)
Hanyuan (c)                             3         7           .3          S          9            8               1            (1.5             11      I3            33         333         1           2
fuling (P)
IISacbuEa (c)                           3        -2          t0           7         3S           -8               6              2               8        2           -3        229        29            3
Vaamln (p)
langp8ng (c)                            2         3          -1          9         104          -11               I              I               7       40            2        381        34            a
0~



Tabie 5.2;   EHALTII SERVICES UTILIZATION, SICH1JAN, 1975 - 1982
(coQtitued)
Len55boS Stay (4*9)              3kcu9a     gay iat  6,   * V8elertl to  .eto ll-P0'Doo 0      p       I  t.el1es-OVtO  tbp.
18     Cte          t9B2   Y Chage   I Change 29WO   I*i,,e                Change           1982 ,    Change   I Change
1975-80    1980-82                1975-80         980-82           1975-S0    1980-B2                    t915-80      9980-82
^Aege Dtof .11 Co-t es  (463             12         14           4         90           2           4         S               1        7                     90         49
Average ct Sichuan Caottee               11         -1           7         9            1           5       Z.l         81         11              12       E4          aU
N/eill-n Iv)
Elthor4 (c)                            12          7          25        l02          tO           4         2         15        -12              2         9          *9
tevijt-0  (p)
Sblfang tc)                            12        -1S          21         87           3          -5      .Z           to0         9              14         2        102
G6uaghao (cI                           12         14          88         as         -_            4       2.5          4         -e              39      13J          15
Chonogins (pI
OIJI&rg (c)                            12        -10          18         B9          8           11         2         89          9              9         18        1I
c-oaa*o.U (c)                           9         -1         -_          89        -28         (I.5      2.7          20          4              a       -*9         69
Dazu (e)                               12         -4          16         9S         -I           10      1.9          23         -1              5         i         100
ChenSd. (pI
Shoagil. ()                             a         -8          -1        101          9           IS       2.E         -I        181              17       -2          25
3tn
Hl noa..l Ip)
Stnc.t (e)                             14        -11           4         91           3           a       L.b         12         -8               1.     -11)         Zl
Dax3ao (p)
lah.t  I-j                             13          4          19        1l0           I          30       2.3         -6        -25               6      *02          14
Nenc*hattt (p)
cGnS56  (a)                            11         i3 -s                 102        -IS            4       2.4         1          36               '       86          28
liblo (p)
*elianeg (c)                          12         -5           9          92          2         0.)       1.)         82         -4               3       341         47
211098 (p)
W"t 0ne3                               12        -12          -5         %q         -14      -Oles         40         41         17              14       121         Jr.
Lash-U (p)
fteS (e)                                a                    -31        III          6           12         3         -5         17              O       Z7S          ZO
Ta'zn IpS)
Oa.yon (c)                              9          1         -25         91          12           2        3           6        -12               9       -40         23
f4ltlu (PI
ifanchuan (c)                          1)                     13         91           7          -*       2.2         72         -8               1       40          43
danztan (p)
Lsaptaus (cl                           11                     -2         90         3',           2       2.3         40          a              20       2t3 10o                                       IQ
if  Number of beds In countt  botpttal per teA thousan6 populatiou.
Zt  Total number of beds In comane bhe1th  -arter. per teo  tboomand popal4tton.                                                                                                                              Lt
yI total nber ot bed. In eltllD uattS within enterprises per ten thouaend populatlon.
41 ot'lCt beds withIn county per ten thousauI poptlation.
St Occupancy race 1t  c.Ila&ted by (  of tnpatient. x ave duration of .*tq   a thostptst beds 'A 165).



Tabie 5.3:    HEAI.TH SERVICES - GROWTR IN RESOURCES, HiEILONGJIANG, 1975-1982
Coopt1 St.ff p.eJi    Co-I,  Ho p          Cony fItop 5DO,--or. p.erl               0 NR eed.             EpIde.lc Stp.afn             EpIdelc S1.51oo                 rId  21.fl per
aID   pop             Staff xlO.POk                X1  POP                  A   COGt! j3bP             Area p-e .10  pop            Stall per .10   opp
1982  t CS..s. 2 ChnSno           1982          1982  r ChnnSf  r Ch.n8e   1958Z  r ch.o. r C(2ror 1982  2                                  z.Se  8 cg.   1982  2 chofg. X chal'4    1982  r Cr.ngc t Lto tSe
1975-80  1980-82                                1975-80  1980-82             1975-80  1380-82            1975-El)  1980-52            1975-80  1980-82            197S-fO  1980-82
Avera4e of all countiles (46)         l6       27        6               4            12       37        16        14       44        16       13       76        lb         7       5S        12         4       75      26
A.e.-ge of  llonaitrn.
counties                            17      22         7               5            IS       IS      -0.4        17      20         7        13       25        19         7       40        8         6       52       2?
S.Ihom (P)
Sulbus (c)                          14      24         6              S             to       14       13        45        0         0      22.6       -6       19f         6        9         5       11       -1        3
fallun (c)                          19      24        16              4              9     -10          5       20        0         0       4.6       -8        -I       0_4        1      -93          6     227        5
e*lbe (P)
BeL'an(c)                          25       13         4              6             16     -20          I       NA       MA        MA      30.3       21        -2         a      64         6         7       28       59
nudesjlaog (p)
llg'an l(c)                         17      49       -23               5            1l       22      -20         12       0        33       6.6       -8       -24         0t      66       10          7      37       -6
SOnghai..9ng (p)
Shoogsl?l (C)                       17      11        22               5            17       iS        4         8       NA        HA       4.7      -12        -I                 26       2')        '       35       18   C
21tnafan fc)                       14       28        10              4             10      -6        13        10       0A         0       8.9       -6       -Ii         7       17       26          5      93       53
H ejtang (p)
&oll (c)                            IZ      22        13               6            19       21         7       KA       NA        NA      21.8       -8         4         a       46        11         *      SI       10
Frijln (e)                          16      -7        -S               S            17       -8      -1          t o0    NA         O      18.8      -11       -12         9       22         1        6        3       3i
eojIang (p)
Nete (c)                           IS       40        17               3            10       70      -10         12      NA        NA      14.?       40        34         6       31        34        4        5       54
Kealan (c)                          11      34         6               6            18       51      -21        tlA      NA        NA      16.8      246        -1        12       64        50         4       2       12
It  Total nbtter of teChnIcal health  taoff In county per tgn thousgnd populatlon.
21  Nuoaer of technical health staff in tcnoty hospital per ten thooand pop.latlon.
31  No.ber of tradItIonal *nd  dester.. dOc.. pe  h.adlad chou--nd pop.l.tgon.
IQ-s
0 
0%.



Table 5.3:  HEALTH SERVICES - CROWTH IN RESOURCES, NINGXIA, 1975-1982
n  Stf P.r1    Co-ty tla  F      County flo:p; Dppt2rs prr-          l         8 "at                       StatEo0             Epidextc Slatton                    1       per
.10  pop              Izafi ni0D  pop               x10  poP                        '00t, o 0 popArea Per olP  pop  S_ att P   P-         r  per...I   _                    lO  pop
1962  2 Ch..8. 2 Ch.nft.          1982           1982  I Caonge Z Change   198Z  Z Change X Chsnge   1982  X Chasn,e I Chanege   1982  2 Change X Change   (1982  t Clnge I (3-.nge
1935-S0  1980-82                                t975-80  1980-f2             1975-80   1980-82            1975-80  1980-82              1975-80  1981-82             1975-61i  I980-d2
Average M  a11 cuuntles (4b)         16      24          5              4             12       37        16        14       44        16         13       76        16         J       55        12         4       7S       26
6notage of (Nfgsla countles           i5       21          3              S             17       14        12         4        0         0        23       16         a         It      ((0         1         6       19       25
Ynon.. (p3
Uuobong Ic)                         24       -4         2              so             35       -3        21         7       MA        NA      ti/2      -13        -4      16.2       82         45      11.1       6 h4
Tongaln Cc)                         12        9         0               5             i5        9        15         a       NA        NA      12.4       70         2       9.4       42        -15       4.7      -t6        I
Shl.1ssha. (pl
Plealuo (c)                         18       51         1               6             17       32         3         0       MA       N(A      26.2       85        -2      10.0      178          7       o.8      ((I        8
Cuyu  (P)
Cayusn (c)                           10      11          S               2             6        9        -7         6        0         0      20.3      -14          3       5.8       86      -21        1.4       -        40       1
B(y-n  fC()                          ()       39         4               3            11       22        26         9       MA        NA        44         1        40      (5.6      (6?       -11       S  1      22       21      t51
1/  total nusber ot technical health staft *n co.ty per t.. th o...d popup.ttin.
21  lueber of treholc-l he.lth stff So ..o..y hospitll   per teo thound population.
3/  Masther of traditional and mestern doctors per hundred thousand population.
tIQ
t8
4  :
t_..n
(-a



Table 5.3':  HE-ALTH SERVICES - GROWTH IN RESOURCES, SHANGDOON, 1975~-1982
Co-tit  Cti   e!          ounty 33olp2        Countyi 133n1. Doct.rs pery             I NC0R Beds              Epldn..1c St.nI,-             Epfdest  St.;I.                  310     f ..f
POP_______                    .10af   .I105 POP                                  Pr'O          -             Area per .39o po             Sratt per z15L pop1(J..k                              -
1982  2 Change I Change            1982           1982  2 Change 2 Chsnge    1982  8 Change 2 Change   1882  t chn.ge 2 Cho,,ge    3982  2 Change 2 Change    3982  I Cbange I Change
1975-833  1980-82                                 1975-50  1980-82              197$-Ba   1986-82             1975-80  1980-82              1913-80  1980-82              1975-80  1980-82
Average of oil C..ntles (46)            16      24          S               4             32       37         36        14      244         16        13       74        36          7       35        12          4       75       26
Average ofShandong counties             14      26          5               3             30       44        27         13       75        44          9       90        it          6       56i       12          2       56       26
Qtnad.. (p)
JItaoean(e                           34       22        30)               3              9       as        is         6             NA  ,h    34.8         355         -2       4,9        32         9       3.3       -3        30
134b- 'p3
Li .1 Cc)                            Is       45        -1                3             it       NA        50        IL.,      NA        NA       5.3       -1         -3       5.8      332       -30        2.1       -7       3
linen (p3
Zbaaocqt  (c.)                       13       12          a               2                      hi4       22          0       NA        KA       6.2        3.38      -2         4       132        3b       239       1431      3
2a.ohuan (p3
Tenxtro (t)                          12       30          1               2              8       48        32         so        0       3SO      34.4        19        -2       5.3        16         3       3.3        3 9      69
faucta (PI
leases Cc)                           33       32          6               2              a       43        22         NA       NA        NA       9.3       309        -!        i.l                 I:        I.,       I.'      U      C
Ielefang (p)0
hAdn (c)                             34        9         -3               2              9       43         8                  " A       NA       9.81       2(3        3       47         %93                                    Al3er 2  4
1(olain (p3
fluaotai (c)             ~4                    29         5               3             32       65         39        "A       NA        NA        9.8       el         -2       9.4       IS.       -2        3.8        9       -2
D41z3o. (p3
piagyusa (o)                         22       26          2               4             14       90         3        KA       NA         NA       4.8       -5         -3          1     -32         la         4      147        20
ULiny (p3
Zabzan ce)                           14       45          a               3              a       12        is        NA        NA        NAh       3.6       -1        -2         S       41         12       3.93      Is?       16
Janan (c)                            33       80          2               3              8       36        29         NA       NA        NA       4.7        76        -2       5.3       333         6       3.6        66       -2
Tatao Cp)
Tate* (el                            1.        3          4               2              6       24        22         8a       N         33       8.5       200        -2       4.5        20        32       2.6        Is       40
LaiconC(e)                           12        6         31               2              1       62        34        "4       N           A       2.S        50        -2         4        16        43       2.8      175        32
limIng (p)
QU9aoCe)                             Is        12         a               4             32       54         0          7       NA        NA      28.9        40       327       7,.6       41        12       3.          $       20
Uaoceaa (p)
cmuanian (c)                         16       43          2               4             is       is        23        KA        KA        NA       7.9         1        64       9.5        65        so       3.6       46        Sy
Naote, (p)
shanatan (c)                         16       28          5               A             13       10        31         is      350      '40        5.0       225        "2         6        67         4         2        -8
J/  Tocal oiber of  tecnca   se.tt staff 1o c0uMtF Per ten thousand population.                                                                                                                                                        ta~
3/1 N,ube of technicAl eealtb staff in county hoapital Per ten thousand population.
21 Number of tradittonal and heetern doctors per hundred thousand population.
0%



Tdble 5.3-  HEALTH SERVICES - GROWTH IN RESOURCES, SICHUAN, 1975-1982
Cougtt  Staff per.-    Coumty Ho           County Nop fbetore per3/             * HI SCH  s             Epldeslc Uni51on            EpI4esLe StI*3an               311 5ltf per
__ I(J  po           S".staff *104 Pp            :105 Pp                  pet  000    t              Ales per :30  pop          Sta.I per xlO pop                x:1   POP
5982  7 Change I Changc          1982          1982  1 Change I Change   1982  1 Change I Change   1982  t Chanp  t Cl-.ae   1982  2 Cwhege 2 ChanS    19982  2 Change I Crk..ge
1975-8O  1980-82                               1975-80  1980-82            1975-bo  t980-82            1975-80  938(1-82           1975-80  1980-82            I975-80  1980-82
Average of *It n.-untle  (46)        16      24         5              4            12       37       16        14       *4       16        13       lb        lb        7       55        12        4       75      26
Average of SLehuan counttes          t6      30         a              3 1i                  51       i8        17       60       15        13      116       21         6       46       17         2      120      26
.le1jlao (p)
Zilt30re (c)                       16      26        16              2             6      47        10        20      NA         0       S.2       1.9      -2       3.8       48       16       1.3       56      13
ISnjian (p)
Shift8s (c)                        22      14         3              4            15      62        16        47       0        18      27.2     t3A        -2       7.8      122      317       6.3       35      30
Guaosgha (c)                       22      31         2              4            16      89        29        20       28       Zs5      5.e       -4       -2       7.5       52       -5       4.8       92       17
Ctonaqgln (p)
Q1tjJ4 (c)                         14      29         0              2            It        9        17       12       NA(      NA      i4.9      531       -2       4.5       S0        20      2.4      511       38
COangaou (c)                       14      35         4              3             S      26        10         0      NA        lt      I5.3      62        23       5.1       20       t4       1.7        7      37       t
fetx (c)                           15      12         4              2             7      64         9        i8       0        20      51.5       46       -3       4.9       71       35       2.8       62      42
CheagdU lp)
Sh33nsngu (c)                     t7      31         8              1            10       62       16        21       NA      lNA      1.9       -l6       -2       7.2       61         5        z      23        18 i
Misysagx tp)
Santat (c)                         13       a         2              2             1       21       18        20       NA       HEA     11.2       -2      272       2.1       z3       19       1.3      3 .      -3
Boston (p)
ltehu (e)                          14      21        20              2            12      83         5        211     Na        "A       6.9        6       -1       4.8       36        12      2.5      t4       52
tnauchoeg (p2
Cbgragn (e)                       tl      I0         4              2             6       61       27        10      100        0       4.3      384       -I       1.7       28        8       1.9       69      17
V3bta (p)
HIailang (c)                       16      84        12              3             8       56        4        20       NA        0      11.4      226       -1       6.1       21        31      1.4      349       16
ZISoag (p)
Fusat?u  (c)                       15      36        10              2            11       80        3        20      150        0       2.8       -3       -2       4.4       48        4       2.2       69      60
Lesha, (PI
gSoa  (c)                          20      28         5              4            13      23        33         0      HA        NA      36.8     478        -2       8.3       J4       26       1.9       52     -14
ts,&. (p)
sanyuan (e)                        22      31        It              3            13       40       50        16        0       lao     36.5       -1       -3      m(.6       67        0       6.9      210      2S
FolIoS (p)
Uanchuan (e)                       14      46         5              3             9      27         8        35       Na        0       6.5      -2        -2       8.1       18       e5       3.8      341      25
lIasaisa (p2
Liangpln  (c)                     16      18        13              2            31      6s        14        30      43         o      I3.6      49        67       4.5      50         8       1.9      G8       24
t1  Total numcr of tehebatl heslth stalf tn county per ten thousand populatioo.
21  NumSbe  of tleaeleal health staff In c-ouoy tospit.l Par ten Ihousand populatn.1                                                                                                                                          ;
37  YIber of ttadItIonal *r4 weatern doctors per bundred thousand population.                                                                                                                                           0
H,N



- 62 -
PROJECT COST TABLES
Contents
Page No.
Table 6.1: RURAL HEALTH SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE . . .  1
Table 6.2: MEDICAL EDUCATION SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE . . .  2
Table 6.3:  STRENGTHENING MANAGEMENT, EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY, INCLUDING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE . . . . . . . .  3
Table 6.4:  PROJECT SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY
(TOTALS INCLUDE CONTINGENCIES) . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Table 6.5:  PROJECT SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE . , . .  5
Table 6.6:  PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YE!kR
(TOTALS INCLUDE CONTITIGENCIES) . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Table 6.7:  PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR, BASE COSTS AND
CONTINGENCIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Table 6.8:  PROJECT SUMMr -r , ACCOUNT BY COMPONENT, WITH FOREIGN
EXCHANGE PiRCENTAGE AND PERCENTAGE OF
TOTAL BASE COSTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Table 6.9:  SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  9



Table 6.1;   RURAL HEALTH SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND  BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING  FOREIGN EXCHNGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE
(Y '000)
Base Costs f
Price Cont.
Base Costs                      Foreion Exchange    on Base     Total Inc.
-   -----                                                Costs         Cont,
1        2         3      4    5     Total        X     Ahount    (U5 '000)   (us$ '000)
I. WENSTMENT COSTS
At C0NSTRUCTION                          53t731.1 23.019,1  7,608.1    -    -   84,358.3      0.0       0.0      43,990.5    48,389.5
B, EUIIPPENT AND UENICLES
EQUIPMENT                             37i&5.3 13,679.8  3,W41,Q    -    -   54 371.1     926  50,341.0       28,212.8     31,034,1
_ _ _ _ _  -  ___-__ _ _-__-_-_---_    _   ___ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ - ---   ------   -
Sub-Total EWUIPOENT AND VEHICLES         37,650.3 13,679.B  3,041.0    -    -   54,371.1    92.6  50,341.0       29,212.8     31,034.1
C. TRAINDIG
LOCAL                                  4,332.5  4,i?2*9  2,958.4    -    -   11,483.8    0.0         0.0       6,129.7      6129.7
Sub-Total TRAINING                        4,332.5  4,192.9  2,959.4    -    -   11,483.8      0.0       0.0       6,129.7      6,129.7
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                        382,2    437,8    140.3    -    -      960.3      0.0       0.0         508.5        508.5
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              382.2    437.8    140.3    -    -       960.3     0.0       0.0         508.5        508,5
E, PERSONNEL RECRUITIENT                  34357,8  3,0525  2,7?2.5    -    -    9,202.8       0.0       0.0       4Y929,2      4t?29.2
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                      99,453.9 44.382.1 16,540.3    -    - 160.376.3    3'.4  50,341.0        83,770.7    90,991.0
Total BASLINE COSTS                         99,453.9 44,382.1 16,540.3    -    -  160,376.3    31.4  50S341.0       83,770,7     90,95I.0
Phisical Contingencies                     9P138.1  3,66?.?  1,064.?    -    -   13,872.?    36;3   5,034.1              - 
Price Contingencies                        1,970.9  3,357.7  2,404.1    -    -    7,732.7    26.6  2i058.3               -            -
latal PROJECT COSTS                         110563.0 51,409.7 20,009.3    -    -  181,982.0    31.6  57P433,4       830770.7     90??'m.0  
__-- __ ---    _=_=== =         Z= == == === _===  ==__-=  __ Z-==  ==____=    ___=_
Foreign Exchange                          39,187.8 15f181,1  3,064.5    -    -  57,433.4       0.0       0.0             -    29,716.7
April 19, 1984 10:32



Table 6 .2:  MEDICAL EDUCATION SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE
(Y '000)
Mase Costs t
Base Costs                          Foreign Exchange  Price Cont. on  Total Inel.
-   -----------------         Base Costs.      Cont.
1         2        3        4        5       Total        %     Amount     (US$ '000)    (US$ '000)
1. INtESTKENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                          39,495.2 39495.2 26,330.1 13#165.1 13J165#1  131}650.7       0.0      0.0        74,727.6    82p200.4
B. EQUIPIfNT AID VEHICLES
EIUIPHENT                             4b8334.9 249167.4 37,315.2 11,019.7        -  120,837.2     44t2 53y451.2        67,244.4     73Y968.8
Sub-Total EQUIPNENT AND VEHICLES         48,334.9 249167.4 37,315.2 11,019.7        -  120v837.2     44.2 539451.2        67,244.4    73,968.8
C. TRAINING
LOCAL                                  1,2B6.2  1.286.2  1,285.4  1.285.4  1W285.4   69428.6       0.0      0.0         3,785.6      3,785.6
OVERSEAS FELLUSHIPS                    2,246.9  2,336.2  2,336.2  2,246#9  2,246.9  11,413.0    90.0 10,271.7           6,717.6      6,717.6
Sub-Total TRAINING                        3,533.1  3i622.3  3,621.6  30532.3  3f532#3  17,841.6      57.6 10,271.7         10,503,2    104503.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   2,143.5 2,201.3  1,978.2  1,978.2         -    8,301.2   100.0  8,301.2          4,726.4      4.726.4
LOCAL CONSUTANTS                         665.5   665.5   633.0   633.0           -    2,597.9      0,0      0.0          1,480,3      1,480,3
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTNE              2,809.0  2,966.8 2,611.2  2.611.2         -   10,898.1    76.2  8.301.2           6,206.6      6,206.6
Total INVEST)(NT COSTS                      94,172.2 70,151.8 69N878.0 30,328.3 16v697.4  281r227v7    25.6 72,024,1        158,681.8   172,879.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                         94,172.2 70151.8 69,878.0 3063283 16,697.4  281,227.7     25.6 72,024,1       158,681.8   172,879,.0           x
Physical Contingencies                     8M783.0  6,366.3  69364.5  2,418.5  1,316.5  259248.8    21.2  5,345.1                 -            -           cz
Price Contingencies                        3,737.3  8,214.4 13,446.7 8,096.8 5,796.3   39Y291.5       24.5  9,606.8
Total PR0JECT COSTS                        106,692.5 84,732.5 89,689.3 40,833,6 23Y810.2 345y757.9       25.2 86,976.0       15B,681,8   172,879.0
Foreign Exchange                          29,689.2 17,797.5 26,280.0 11,546.4 2,672.9   86,976.0       0.0      0.0               -    43,488.0
APril 18i 1984 10V42



Table 6.3: STREN&GTHENING MANAGE1MENT, EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY, INCLUDING
FOREIGN EXCRANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE
(Y '000)
Base COgt 4
Price Cont.
Base Costs                    Foreign Exchange   an Pase      Total ocil
Costs        Canto
1       2        3       4    5   Total         I    Abunt   (US$ '000)  (US '000)
I. INVESTiIENT C&'TS
A. C0NSTRUCTION                        5W981.1  9,026.4 3,243.6      -   -17,251,1        0.0      0.0       9,451.0    10,39L.1
E. EIIPiENT AND VEHICLES
EQUIPENT                            2t86T.? 8:035.7 5,676.4       -   - 16,582.0    31.5  5t229.7         9,275.0    10,202.5
-  --  --  --    --   - -      --  --  --   -      - - -- - -- - ---  -  - - -
Sub-Total EOJIPNET AND VEHICLES        2,869.9 89035.7  5,676.4       -   - 16,582.0    31.5  5,229.7        9,275.0    10.202.5
C. TMiNING
LOCAL                                 225.8   230.8       9.7   4.6   -   470.9        0.0      0.0         253.4       253.4
MOERSE  FELLSHIPS                   1,051.7  2,829.6  1,853.5  75.6    - 5,910.4    90.7 5,270.7          3P249.0     3r249.0
STUDY TogRS                           260.3   260.3        -      -    -   520.6    90.0   468.6            27?.0       27?.0
bTotal nRININB                         1,537.8  3,320.7  1 863.2  80.3    -  6,802.0    84.4  5.739.3        3,781.4     3,781.4
D. TECNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECICAL ASSISTARE                   1688.1  2.071.    360.5  23.1    - 41143.5   100.0  49143.5           2,248.2      2W248.2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         1,699.1  2,071.7   360.5  23.1    - 4,143.5   100.0  4,143.5          2,248.2     2,248.2
Total ISThE T COSTS                      120764 21,454.5 11143t7  103.4   - 44,778.6    33.7 15,1125           24i755.5    26,628.1
Total IASELIINE COSTS                     124076*9 21,454.5 11i143.7  103.4   - 44,778.6    33.7 15,112.5       24,755.5    26,629.1            x
Phisioal Continiemion                     885.1  1,606.2   992.0      -    - 3,393.3    15.5   523.0                -           -
Price Continssneies                       470.5 2.475.6 2,122.7  25.5   -  5,094.4    31.2  1,588.9                 -           -
Total PRQJECT COSTS                       130432.5 25,536.4 14,158.4  128.9    - 53Y256.3    32.3 17,224.4      24,755.5    26.628.1
:_- 4__.4  _ _  7.2 -3   -11.-   ===12         ===0- _            =      c     =      2
h reisn Exchande                        4,086.4 8.474.2  3,850.0 113.7   -17,224.4         0.0      0.             -      861.
Aril 1R. 19M  1a.--5------



Table 6.4:   PROJECT  SUMMaRY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY
(TOTALS INCLUDE CONTINGENCIES)
(Y '000)
Totals Includind Continencies
1          2          3         4        5        Total
I. I)JESThIENT CDSTS
At CONSTRUCTION                         112,O16t7  84,975.8   47,789.3 18,057.8 17i141,3  281,971.?
B. EQUIPNENT AND VEHICLES
EQUIPHENT                            1O0,536.9   55y325#5  59,433,2 15,115.2          -  230,410.8
Sub-Total EGUIPHENT AND VEHICLES         1006536.9  55.325.5   5?2433.2 15t115i2          -  230,410.8
C. TRAINING
LOCAL                                  5P978,0    6.165,8    4,885,9  1,608,6  1,699.0   20,337.3
OVERSEAS FELLOMSIIPS                   3,418.3    5,720,3    4j?28.6  2896.1  26?.?  fl??33.2
STUDY TOURS                              269.8       288.3          -         -        -      558.0
Sub-Total TRAININO                        ?.666*1  12.174,3    ?P814.5  4Y504,7  4,668,?   40yi.825
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   3,970.7    4,731.8    2,751.1  2,495.6         -   13,949.2
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                       1,078.8    1,205.3      ?04*1    78?#3         -    3,977.5
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANOE            5,049.5   5,937.1    34655.2  3,284.8           -   17y926.7
E. PERSONNEL RECRUITMENT                  3,419.7    3,265.8    3,173.8         -         -    9,8S9.4
Total INYESTtIINT COSTS                     230W68840  161,678.5  123,857.0 40i?62#5 23.810.2  580,996.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                          2306989.0  161,679.5  123.857.0 40,962.5 23,810.2  590,996.2
April IS# 19 U 10:#11



Table 6.5: PROJECT SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY YEAR AND BY CATEGORY,
INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE AMOUNT AND PERCENTAGE
tY '000)
Base Costs t
B;se Costs                              FoTr9ignE ixchanSt   ?Ti[P tont.sn      CotlIntl.
-----------------~-- - --------~---~--------~------------~-~-----  -~~---------------    2se Costs        Cornt.
1          2           3         4         5       Total        X      Aiounrt      (US$ '000)    (US$ '000)
I. INUESTHE1T CDSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION                           9?9?07,4   70,540.7   37,181.9 139165.1 13165,.1  233,260.1          0.0         3.C       128,169.1    140,926.0
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
EQUIPMENT                               898855.1   45,882.9   46,032.6 11,019.7           -  191,750',4    56.8  1 0?022.0        104,732.2    1157205.4
Sub-Total EQUIPHENT AND VEHICLES           88i855-1   45,882.9   46.032.6 11,019.7           -  191.790.4    56.8  109,022.0         104,732.2    115,205.4
C. TRAINING
LOCAL                                    S,844.5    5,709.9    4,253.5  i.290.1  1,285.4   18,3B3.4         0.0        0.0         10,163.7      10i168.7
OVERSEAS FELLOISHIPS                     3,298.6    5,165.7    4.189.7  2r322.5  2&246.9   17,223.4    Y0.2   15Y542.4              9,966,6       7,i6606
STUDY TalRS                                260,3       260.3          -         -        -       520,6    90.0       468.6            279.0         2'9.0
Sub-Total TRAININ6                          99403.4   11,136.0    8,443.2  3,612.6  3,532.3   36,127.4    44.3   i6,011.0             20,414.2      20,414.2
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     3,831.6    4,273.1    2F338.7  20013             -   12,444.7   100,0   12J444.7           6J974.6       6,974.6
LOCAL CUONSULTANTS                       1,047.7    1i103.3       773.3    633.0          -    3,557.3      0.0        0.0          1.988,7       1,988.7
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              4,879.3    5,376.4    3,111.9  2,634.3           -   16,001.9    77.8   12.444.7           8Y963.3       8,963.3
E. FERSDONNEL RECRUITMENT                   3,357.8    3,052,5    2,792,5          -         -    9,202.8      0,0         0.0         4.929,.       4t929.2
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                       205,703.0  135,988.5   97,562.0 30.431.7 16697,.4  486,382.6    28.3  137,477.6            267,208.0    230,498.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                          205,703,0  1350988.5   97,562.0 30,431.7 16,697.4  486,382.6    28.3  137477.6             267,208.0    290,498.1
Phisical Contingerncies                     18,806.2   11.642.4    8,321.4  2,418.5  1,316.5   42,505.0    25.6   104902.2                     -
Frice Cor,tingencies                         6,178.7   14,047.7   17,973.5  8,112.3  5,796.3   52,108.6    25.4   13,254.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                           230,688.0  1612678.5  123,857#0 40,962,5 23Y810.2  580r996.2    27.8  161Y633.8            2672OB.0    290s498,1
Foreign Exchange                            72,663,4   41t442.8   33,194.5 11,660.1  2,672.9  161,633.8         0.0         0.0                -     20^816.9
Apr-il 18, 1984 10:11



Table 6.6: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(TOTALS INCLUDE CONTINGENCIES)
(Y tillion)
Totals Including Contirnseries
(USS
1     2      3    4   5       Y   Nillion)
A. STREN6THENING OF RURAL HEALTH                                 110.6  51.4  20.0   -   -  182.0    91.0
B, STREN6THENIN6 OF MIEDICAL EUICATION                           106O7  84,7  89.7 40.8 23.8  345,8   172.9
Co STRENGThENING AlNMAEJA   , EvALUATION AND RESEARCH
1. ATIWUL CEITER FOR PREVENTIVE HDICINE                         0.9  13.6  13.9   -   -   28.4    14.2
2. SICIM  ISTITUTE OF CHINESE iATERIA IEDICA                    3.4   3.1   0.2 0Ot    -    6.?         3t4
3. RESEARCt CENER fUR HEALTH PLANNING AND STATISTICS            4,5   4.9       -   -   -    9.4        4.7         x
4. PMiCE  INPlETENIAIIDM AND PRARATI9N
IIEIICAL EDUCATION AND TECNOLODY DIVISION                   Z2?   2.1        -   -   -    4.?        2,5
UAL I(ALTH DIVISION                                          0.5   0.5        -      -   -  0.9      0.5
STRENSTllENINB PROJECT OFFICE                                1.3   1.4       -   -   -    2.9        1.4
Sub-Total PROJECT INPLENENTATION AND PREPARATION                4.6   4.0       -   -   -    8.6        4.3
Sub-Total STRENlTHENI6 IWA IT  . EVLUATION AND RESEARCH           13.4  25.5  14.2  0.1    -   53.3    26.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                230.7  161.7  123t? 41.0 23.8  581.0   290*5
April 18, 1984 10:12



Table 6.7; PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR, BASE COSTS AND
CONTINGENCIES,. . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . ..
(Y million)
Total
ase Costs
----                        --            (USS
1      2      3     4    5       Y    Killion)
A. STRENGTHENING OF RURAL HEALTH                                        99.5   44.4   16.5    -    -   160.4        80.2
B. STRENGTHENING OF MEDICAL EDUCATION                                   94.2   70.2   69?9 30.3 16.7   281.2    140.6
C. STRMNTHENING MANAOEENT , EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
1. NAIIDNAL CENTER FOR PREUENTIVE HEDICINE                            0.9   11.3   11.0    -    -    23.1        11.5
2. SICHUAN INSTITUTE OF CHINESE HATERIA HEDICA                        3.0    2.6    0.2  0.1    -       5t?       2.?
3, RESfARCH CENTER FOR HEALTH PLANNIN6 AND STATISTICS                 4o0    4.0       -    -    -      8.1      4.0
PROJECT IIIPI.EENTITION AND PREPARATION
MEDICAL EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY DIVISION                          2,6    1.8       -         -      4.4      2.2
RURAL HEALTH DIVISION                                              0.4    0.4       -    -    -      0.8      0.4
STRENGTHENING PROJECT OFFICE                                       1.3    1.3       -    -    -      2.5       1.3
Sub-Total  MROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND PREPARATION                     4.3    3.5       -    -    -      7.8       3*?
Sub-Total STRENGQ HENING  ANAEWET, EVLUATION AND RESEARCH               12.1   21.5   11.1  0.1    -    44.8        2:.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     205.7  136.0   97.6 30.4 16.7   486.4    243.2
Phvsical CantinGencies                                                 18.8   11.6    8,3  2.4  1.3    42,5        21.3
Price Contingencies                                                     6.2   14.0   18.0  8.1  5.8    52.1        26.1
Total PRUoXT CT STS                                                      230.7  161.7  123.9 41.0 23.8   581.0    290.5
= ==                  =_ ~   =-Z ===
foreign Excag                                                          72.7   41.4   33.2 11.7  2.7   161.6        80.8
April 18, 1984 10:12



Table 6.8: PROJECT SUMMARY, ACCOUNT BY COMPONENT, WITH FOREIGN
EXCHANGE PERCENTAGE AND PERCENTAGE OF
TOTAL BASE COSTS
(Y Hillion)          (USS Million)
-----        - ------- ---- - ------ - --- - Z-- IXForeign  Y Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange  Base Casts
A. STRENGTHENING OF RURAL HATH                                   110.0   50.3 160.4   55.0   25.2  80E2          31.4        33.0
B. STREN6THENING OF MEDICAL EDUCATION                            209.2   72.t 281.2  104.6   36.0  140.6         25.6        57.8
C. STRENTHENING MANAGKNT s EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
1. NATIONAL CENTER FOR PREVENTIVE HEDICINE                     16.8    6.2  23.1    8.4    3.1  11.5          27.0         4.7
2. SICMJ INSTITUTE OF CHINESE HATERIA fEDICA                    4.1    1.8   5.9    2,0    0.?   2.9           30,7        1.2
3, RESEARCH CENTER FOR HEALTH PLANNING AND STATISTICS           6.4    1,7   8.1    3.2    0.8   4.0          20.8         1.7
4. PROJECT INPLENENTATION AND PREPARATION
tiEDICAL EDUATION AND TECHNOLOGY DIVISION                    1.7    2.7   4.4    0.8    1.4   2.2           61.7        0.9
RURAL HEALTH DIVISION                                        0.3    0.6   0.8    0.1    0.3   0,4           67.6        0.2
STRENBTHENING PROJECT OFFICE                                 0.4    2.1   2.5    0.2    1.1   1.3           84.4        0.5
Sub-Total PROJECT INPLEIENTATION AND PREPARATION                2.4    5,4   7.8    1.2    2.7   3.9           69,6        1,6
Sub-Tot,l STRENGTHENING iIANMENT, EVALUATION AND RESEARCH         29.7   15.1  44.8   14.8    7.6  22.4           33.7        9.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                               348.9  137.5 486,4  174.5   68.7 243.2          28.3       100.0
Physical Continmencies                                           31.6   10.9  42.5   15.8    5.5  21.3          25.6         8,7
Price Contingencies                                              3B89   13.3  52.1   19.4    6.6  26.1          25.4        10.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                419.4  161,6 581.0  209,7   80,8 290,5          27.8       119,5
April 18, 1984 10:14



Table 6.9: SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Y '000)
STRENGTHENING MANAGEHENT . EVALUATION WND RESEARCH
PROJECT IH8LEHENTATION AND PREPARATION
SIChVRN      RESEARCH   -------------------        ------
NATIONAL  INSTITUTE OF  CENTER FOR      NEDICAL                                        Phusical
STRENSTHENING OF CENTER FOR   CHINESE       HEALTH     EDUCATION AND RURAL                             Contingencies
STREN6THENING OF    MEDICAL      PREVENTIVE   NATERIA    PLANNING AND   TECHNOLOGY   HEALTH STRENGTHENING
RURAL HEALTH     EDUCATION       KDICINE      ?IEDICA    STATISTICS     DIVISION   DIVISION PROJECT OFFICE   Total     I   Amount
I. INESTMEJT CSTS
h. CONSTRUCTION                             84,358.3        131,650.7    6,487.2      3,718.8      6,012.1        1,033.0       -              -  233,260.1  10.0 23,326.0
B. EQUIPiNT AND UEHILES
EQUIPIfNT                                54,371,1        120,937.2   12,507.6      1,257.9       1,004.1         892.6   227.3          702.4  191,790.4  10.0 19I179.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMET AND MEHILES              54,371.1        120,837.2   12,507.6      1.257,9      1,004.1          882.8   227.3          702.4  191.790.4  10.0 l19179D
C. TRAINING
LOCI                                     11,493.9          6,42B.6          -         38.7         103.3          204.9   124.0             -   18,383.4  0.0      0.0
DUERSAS FELLOISHIPS                             -         11,413.0    3.392.0        630.1         714.0          165.3   495.8         413.2   17,223.4  0.0      0.0     '
STUDY TWS                                       -                -          -            -            -              -        -         520.6      520.6  0.0      0.0
Sub-Total TRAINING                          11,483.9         17,941.6    3,392.0        668 9        817.3          370.2   619.8          933.8   36-127.4  0.0      0.0
Do TED9ICAL ASSISTANCE
TECIUICAL ASSISTANCE                            -          98301.2      674.7        231.4        227.3         2,142.4       -         867.7   12,444.7  0.0      0.0
LWCL C8NSULThNTS                            960.3          2.597.0          -            -            -              -        -             -    3,557.3  0.0      0.0
Sub-Total TECOiICAL ASSISTANCE                 960.3         10,898.1      674.7        231.4        227.3        2,142.4        -         867.7   16001.9  0.0       0.0
E. PEllS0ISI RECRUITJII                      9.202.9                -          -            -            -              -        -             -    9,202.8  0.0      0.0
Total INUESTElfT COSTS                        160,376.3        291,227.7   234061.i      5,976.9      9,060.7        4,428.5   847.1        2,504.0  486,32.6  8s7 42505.0
Total BASELIINE CSTS                           160,376.3        281,227.7   23,061.4      5,876.9      2,060.7        4,428.5   847.1        2,504.0  496,382.6  8.7 426505.0
Phssici LontiNsries                          13,972.9         25,248.8    1,899.5        497.7        701.6          191.6    22.7           70.2   42505.0  0.0        .0 
Price Contisencies                            7732.7          39,281.5    3,437.0        491.2        629.4          299.5    62.5          184.9   52#108.6  7.8 4,075.2
Total PROUJCT COSTS                            1819982.0        345,757,9   29s397.9      69855.8      99391.7        4,919.6   932.3        29759.1  580,996.2  8.0 46,580.2      o
Foreign Exchaet                              575433.4         86,976,0    7,362.2      2075.9        1,979.4       2,976.2   626.9        2,303.9  161,633.8  7.3 11.745.3
April 18, 1984 10.12



CHART  I
Orgonizatlon Plan of the Mlnistty o Publlc Health
= Cl 04   .4W00.oI ItPocI, &   I=   I,00
W.,.osl P\hw Nco  ofn
*Veofm 0001-1 PasJICCIIOO
insoolfl 40004  P0400sIledclmrtfa
.|hnicel Cof .1og r I*olonjolc Mcdho f1001 
ClononocAcodoonyo of.lod,l'ono' Md c.no
s l,roso          C,AC 0c10 don  s r   dK    0c.0,
fgo0w101Sflto0I
PlOlolAlI111  CUfll,lCnlOOl -    PhldOllflOGOldOlOCO 0,00
()oo'saono.oo& IOOnnrg 4)0000
e      rXd rs lluned*s     -   ~~Wolo~ Supply 14010 I Oco
Vl,l,OOO-COcIIIIOt
nO.40, ello lo     ,     k    .  II F1 hr      A  -      DNI
lf11000l                       llOnomOcse:l 0.1,010   olNcrshl Ma
I~ ~ ~~~~- st t
5          Ch.W 1loozl- =                  lmwo  aoool    D            -
Wh7d~~~.119-   C   n-b|l.no lS( e 1m-slo  Dh.
9WA   edcol an4 Dm0 cn
=    _                        E~~~~~~~~F4loW .og0n      00001 S001 Ceh oOIIOJ P lorw.o0Col 
00r140.ft00 -l                 l o _1 0 _o o 0-
-  1ione Of    uo 0000044510004 D   cooo Dm
- 1,- 9ra   0-osc IDl
("-a0 00, 0   o-.
l,od,,040                00f Dd On0C    =    rvl 0 a 0 00 & WollOeIn 4010.00 D,oso
Secoon E0000lon  01
pu nng oS ro rc  0  <e SC,oo 0 1004004 _ A-h, D ono.l4D,0
OOVftlOe Cf00 1 P 1.Ol 1vh   h 401g .00 1|hc
t   flOhnooOd   s 1.0,01fuofoDloo
001? 0000O0 &S-nCod. Or0s0
1000 SolOflo$   O0         C
40.00040 ~ ~   ~ ~ al Boon.. 000.00



CtIART 2
Orginnlzotlon of Health and BIrth Planning Services
|   Provincial Level  
Vertical Preventive P'ogroms                           Clln,cBosed Med cat SeNIcos                                   8irth Ponning Prrgrams           L      Lnonning 8 
UJniflea acrnlrisrratlorr witt)                                                                                                                           Sudeting
staft of rio provincl. pl. - i                                                         UrOan                      Responsible for
(OC tftl. aOn countryos                      Co r                              Distrt Gonorol Hospital              Plonning & momitoling ot
(on< p&claemic stations &            County General Hospitals                                                       birth plonninO
moatenal & tidhoairt 
centers) Responsible tor                                                                                           Inormation, educotion                  ei
infoclious dieuso          _                                                                                      cornamunicotirn                        taspris
&rveillanc.d n rvn  o                 Communo- Clinic                          Street & WCiCtplOCO                Llason wlth Clinicol Services
vc cmotbCnILdn                      (midloa love, ptyslons      rhyriao          HoaiIh Stotions
vaccinations)                           & ourtlIorie             ere
Hygonlo & public                        &                       "I;.                                         _ _         _ _       _ _
noarlnt Campaigns                      J                                        I            I
Monitoing tfo,d &                                   i
vvctorquilfty&                      PRoaduicon Brigade-                        Lone Heolth Stoans                                                        $chcotS
envircnmentol sanitation            Caaoerotive Modical
SChOoI hyglene                      Stotion (3 or d barefoot
industrial hygiene                        d o
Matemnal& ChildHdtH n  Tt/Medial,
I                                         I                                Ih~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eseorcnl
Proauctian teanm                                                    T                                             mistiruries
(Port-time hoolth aide)                                                                                           E r
=  Ttairnng
World bonk-26030



70o                                               E20                                           010                                            1040
LOCATION OF MEDICAL COLLEGES
1. Beijing College ol Troditlonal*Chinene Modicinee(Beijing)
2. 8eIjing Medical ColiegetBoijing)
3. Capital Medical College(Beiling)                                            S    0       V     I   E    T        U    N      I   O      N
4. China Medical UniversitylShenyangl                                                                                                r
b. Guangzhou College of Traditional Chinese MedicinecGuangzhou)                                                                   r        .
6. Hunan Medical CollegeiChin,gshal                                                                    _.                       r
7. Norman Bethune Medical UeniersitylChangchunl                       r                                   ' r                   e.
8. Shanghai First Medical CollegelShanghel)                                                                      \_ v
9. Shandong Medical CollegeJinanI                                                                                           -. 9J
10. Sichuan Medical College(Chengdu)                                                                                                                                             '.J .,._ 'r    
i 1. Wuhan Mediral Co,llege(Wuhan)                                         r
12. Xian Medical CollegalXilan)                                 r
13. Zhong shan Medical CollegelGuangzhou)                     /            '                                                                                          X ULAANBAATAR
S                                              Ao                             M  O   N   G   0   L  I  A
,&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y, J f A                                                                                                                                                             _i 
FGtHANiSTAN                                                                                                  '         
Thi map has been prepared by                       N                                                                                                              vrv;t     
The World Bank s staff or  us,vel y                        - i
tor the convenience ol the
readers ond s exclusively for Ihe                                                  /                            r hi,     1                                       N
internal use of The World Bank
and the International Finance
Corporation The denominations                                                                                                                               V
used and the boundaries shown
on this maP do not imply. oii the                                                                                                                                                 1 A .X-a0
part of The Worfd Bank and the                                                                                                                         "                          l2X,ee
International Finance Corporalion.                                                                                          '-,..
ivny judgment on the legal status                                                             -    .    -                 i         N       r
of any lerntory or any                -                                                                     'N.
er,dorsernent or acceptance of                                                                                                                                                  '
Such boundaties
X 1 7 A V (.
N                             oChengdu
l                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~94.                                  I c   (J A y 
f. i-i;                ~~~~Ch.ngsha
C H I N A
RURAL HEALTH  AND                                                                                                        I
MEDICAL EDUCATION  PROJECT   26K
Project  Provinces                                                                                                                                               t3A
Medical  Colleges  
-  Provincial Boundaries                                                                (JN  
I International   Boundaries                                                          .,          h                                    J    i      >
BURMA                                        (HANpBlA                (
0         200         400        600         800        1000  KILOMETERS                      ;                   LAO  PEOPLE'S a
I |  E   |   E         s                                                     - <,^7DEMPCRATICJ                NA   M
0                200                400               600 MILES                                THAILAND  "REPUBLIC A                 .N VI         A
THAILAND  5VIENTzAN5}_  'I1.  \Ip0



IBRD 17638RI
10,0,,,o0                           1$so                                    ,300                                      '               APRIL 1984
- ~ ~~      ~~~ .>-                          -'.v fi'rrer'9
-,_                                  /                   '                   0 (  G JI A N G(
@ ULAANBAATAR                 \            .,,*
G     0      1    I    AJ
,    ,   (  ,~~~~~~~~~~r  OgYang ' 
*                                                                              0tMyhflg .~1 */ r   '  ;>,t'    :.DEMOCRATIC
--" -  f  i 'PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
. . ', -' J . ~~OF KOR'EA !
0
3,E   G                      PYONGYANG --
I I SEOUL                                V' TOKYO
'           i                         t~.. f--, * r REPUBLIC                           /
<     , ,, >f ;-    *OF KOREA
NlNi.r,.:    'C                        S   VJinan    A '   G
X   [                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~S14i A 4,10-9  A G              '    '' 
, 2 A0XIan
*Ahai8ghai
-                                                   0;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANGhAi
.Chen9du                /Owhn
.I      I  .' 4  AJ V                 .          ,:
;   r;    1 \    . r     Changsh 
IAl,', IA'
I MACAO, PORT.
IN       L~~(9HANQJ>(
PEOPLE'S-            ~        ~        --          ~        '
~COCRATC. 
'UBLIC ".VIE   NAM
,1                                          HONGKONG .PHILIPPINES
IANHAN-                           4'-
-t-   'sXpec |                                                     l18                                                          1300
\j,, .e 



IBRD 17043
1250                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIIL iM8
125                                           1300      CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
/   /   Guliaa      J      >      <.                                            |         | PROJECT AREA(PROJECT COUNTIES)
RO ADS
>eZ,.                                                                               -.-.      - J  _ -RAILWAYS
t3   {/-   Bishui  )&   0   % <~')                             -      -   COUNTY BOUNOARIES(Incomplete)
jo rOHS{//  |             fif         |   Xiz-                                           -    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-/     - Jr  _  * INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To Nonlap,                                               Ki LOMETERS 0     50   '00    150   20
MILES'          0         loS        60
/V   IFd/                                     Heihe<}.
MS O N G G   O 1   
2 < u. S. S. R.
To WT Toh /  )Iao
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y 
-'                             rh, nap hAS boon p0ihHl Hp         -n
SEPUSLIC            C0000On 1he d      .,\uboOoe .h
USSR~~~~~0 KO5                      0.0 an J to / OdOO l   J    N   ol/                  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 lb ra do no mp{                                        0O Pvn         rOT
C H I N AOe                                  partofruo ue O/tAB .h   e ,ml                        S.
OF eFnEA       us~~kleroQoaI Feo,ran.e Copnof  r                    
aoerrpoorenrl on Do IT .ega alas           DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S
I    ond0loonatsoaCInE p                          REPUBLIC  CF  KOREA
_                         2S~~~~~~~~~~~~ocshbne. da'ro



IBRD 17046
rd44                          IE05                         ioeO                     T.rO Saarow                          o08C   MARCH 1983
C H I N A                                                               )
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDiCAL EDUCATION   Wu.hat
PROJECT
NINGXIA (AUTONOMOUS REGION)                                      ToJd,ta         _
PROJECT AREAi RO.':CT COUNTIES)
-   ROADS 
-t---  RAILWAYS                                           :)                ,A
390                           RiVERS                                          iShizuish390 5
-  COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                 ip%
-  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    :
.                      A/E,,cl AIIONGOO0L
KtlQ"ErERS |   ~15         30Qk7   /t iz
KILOMETERS
_     MILES O             10          0                 /        I 
Zni gtonDingbia3
380                                                                                                                    'N370L
> y                         /T .Ouzhunang 0
GNua                  350GG   O  Z  j   1 v p   7\  j?   <   anchi
,  ~~~~~    0 ~~~~~~            Z                  <    f4~~~~~~~~Hui'anp  /      J 
> ' ^   ~   |  ( hongning5'                                                         . 
OGHOIA 5A 
-370                                               -                Tongxin nJ                                                                              37i_
9             (_~~~~Hnhui(  r"                                                             9>                                       t
u             dPingan \                                   p'0an                   ,j\
/~~ ~ ~~ ~~~                                                 ~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '>  ...P.R.
G ~~~~~~~A                  ?S' U                                /                     Guyuan          36_ro#svJ7l8
Ip_       Lanzhou >Xe                                     t       X       iji          7                    !                   U.S S.R.    !
_~~~inya                                          _                  2 r K  ONGR LIA \t~,
'02,81' hAs I,    22ep.1'a .0 I'~  rife *1.10 P,2A S 0  e,rA , t, t_e   0N..REPUBLIC
350                                  1M  ,12,2/.   .  U, 2n                             r .22.00  0/ r2  l a sA    r a the nhshrtoa  350o \   e  - :
1S4T.T1                                     2 P  '   *          10p.  , .    th1 07ot   she'  07' 7200 ff7.  0l2 aot               4
1040              To Tonlos,i   05"                            tqO8PxCfc



To 7ianjin 117                             180                              1190
MONGOLIA
''    -    ~~~,v    I. 4(
of ,angzhou
*        '..--     g                                                                     C7e:,-  /  2f<  
X   S7    T  E  E JS RKO f tl Al f                                    ,        _       
115',                       TO                                                                                     - ,ghu
1 1 5 To H4engshui > i,   Ping
H        B    Lc                                                                                                   oxi,  -->5ng 
37'             r       /                                              TH,} i n  _Luantaiw  V
!9/  X    ,g   t                      ,                         .          >        /    P   tt, ~~~~~~~~~~~1Zhu c hn  1'
Lin \ 5 2-n g I  aota           SThngxli~ianvungang
Sha .ngqZazhangiu                                                                             z           /. Lianyungana
1-/E N           A N )S            ian       ' g
utun                                                 iyn /                LI
H F N A  ~~~ =.2 G    s + J/ N G S Un9A 
iHeze16                                                                                                                                     zhaoXZOU18  1(
,                       I    .                             I                                  I                 .      _~~~~~xi  



IBRD   17044
1190                          12t00                          l2iU                           1202                            MARCH  198
380
i ; . .~.   >   -\                        La(t}ang0k                                                                         370
ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~na
~~~ Weifeng             K         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eia
e i~xian
(.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7L
\\) t   rJ  /      t              Laoshan                             ~~~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~~~~~~C H, N A  36t1
U  Zhucheng                                 Qingdao
/ s                             .Jiaonan                    RURAL HEALTH  AND MEDICAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCE
/ . >,. PR OJ ECT AR EA (PROJ ECT COUNTI ES)
- /     ROADS
/  ---@ -  RAILWAYS
-   ' h      i(Rizhao                                   _                         RIVERS
/ COUNTY BOUNDARIES
9Junba n                                                                          _        PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          35rJ
KILOMETERS    _       15          30
/J        XMILES                                                                              [           1     1
Lianyungango
LtonYiunqan
-,'s ronts flfebrn piopsarr a by The Wo010 EtM S sfaTf SlJcivs,rie to, the conleen,ance of
Mie re,   and,. e  ol f  the  -l,snal use of The World Blank and the Infe,naborioa
irnari,. r0~00,e1h,, ilrornr,orrrnr vsed -d the bound.7ics shown on th,t map do not
*'iifr) on  f Pil' l Isf fhe Wind fit uk arid ffrr t ntr,rlti,ee    fsianhce Coiporatron. anyurjugment
an tir  ign,  550 tn   /la  e,n4trr,torv ii' aDr  endors, entr-  in accertfnce ot such boundaries
5  U,
1 ICt'                  ~~~~~~~1270t                     12,10                           12|20                          12|30



I BRD 17043R
r5-  Oo.-           )                           10$'            CH I N  A                               JANUARY 1984
r               RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Q I N G H A I-    c-GANSU 
QINGHAI      *'~~~~~~~~**~~N    ~          G A N S L U             .
S H A A N  X I
130'                                                                                                 - ..I.ZNGI                   H O  U    E
Y,'~~~~~~~~~~3'
HN A
to.
Y U  N  N  A N1                            J gs             .                                               SVE    ID'           1
SOVIT 7UNION
r l..J  Proiect ATeVOSROJECT COUNTLESi
Roods                                              ~-'   -- 
-.--------'-  Railways
-   County Boundoriesi-con,p,it                                                                   C H I N A 
-    P-ovincicl Boundaries                                                                             L
-- - - RiverS               F4
-  Internchtional Boundaries                                 **,'-."'^   .                             tS 
[ O N I Elt tR 5     0 to o    20 0      3 0 r                            .                            'i. -,  -
I                   100              200                                                    I  .'5,_-
t_ _ 



