Dowmnen of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqeort No. 12046
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHIN
RURAL HEALTH AND MDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1472-CIA)
JUNE 22, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :12046 CHA   Type: (PCR)
Title: RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCA
Auzhor: pIKER, RONALD
Ext. :31757 Rooo:T 9017 Dept. :OEDDI
Environment, Humna  Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
Yl.0O - 100 fen
At Appraisal:                       At Credit Closina:
US$1.00 -        Y 2.0              US$1.00 -            Y 5.42
US$1.00 -      SDR 1.06             US$1.00 -    SDR 1.43
ABBREVIATIONS
CNTIC          -    Chinese National Technical Import Corporation
MCH       -    Maternal and Child Health
MOPE      -    Ministry of Public Health
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
WHO       -   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BJANK
Washington D.C. 0
U.SA
Om" of OlOor4onerl
OpMalons Ev-alu an
June 22, 1993
*=!EMORA-NDUM TO. 1                 EXD  DIECrIORS ANDPEiDN
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on China
Rural Health and Medical Educaion Project (Credit 1472CHA1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China - Rural Health and Medical Education
Project (Credit 1472-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
Tne project objecdves were to strengthen the national health planning capability, reform
higher medical education, and moderize rural health services. To accomplish these objective the
project supported development of 3 national health research isttutes, upgadng of facilities and
teaching at 13 medical universities, and modernization of management, health facilities, technoogy,
taining, and prevention progrms in 46 rural counties.
Apart from underestimates of the time that implementation would take and of the recrent
costs required to support the new technologies, implementation was highly satsftoy and substantial
institutional development occurred. The objectives were achieved and appear to be sustainablh As
this was the Bank's first loan for health in China, an audit is planned.
Attachment
This documt has a resrtd drbuion and may be used by rcipiets onty In the pefform   of
dRebJolfiW duis Its cnts may not otew  be dslosed wioU World Bank authua



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RURAL HEALTH AID MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1472-CIA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF COUTENTS
tate No.
Preface  ......                        .     ,      .......... l
Evaluation Sumary  .....,...............................   ii
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW nROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity  .................*.......*............      1
2.  Project Background                                            1
3.  'roject Objectives and Description                            3
4.  Project Design and Organization ................*.......    3
5* Project Implementation .... .....o.....*....*.*.......         4
6.  Project Results  .......s.............*...........            7
7.  Project Sustainability and Replicability................    8
S. Association Performance..r   o     n m a n ce......................  9
9. Eorrower Performance           .......o.. *.*..oo*.   10
10. Project Relationships        ...................... oo..............   10
11. Consulting Services ....o..*.....*........ 0...00.....0..    10
12. Project Documentation and Data .........o.............o.   10
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Comments on Part I  ........................o...........   11
2.  Evaluation of IDA's Performance  ......,.........,......   12
3.  Evaluation of Borrower's Performance                         13
4.  Project Relationship              ...........                14
5.  Evaluation of Co-Financiers' Performance                     14
6.  Comments on Part III Tables              ....15
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                        16
2.  Project Timetables  ......                               16
3.  Credit Disbursements ...                                 17
4a. Project  mplementation in the Provinces                  18
4b. Project Implementation - Universities                    19
S.  Project Costs and Financing ........................   20
6.  Project Results  .....21
7.  Status of Covenmants    ........... ....................   22
8.  Bank Group Staff Input ...  ..............000   22
9.  Bank Group Missions ..............................   23
This document has a rsticted distdbuton and may be used by rcipients only in the peormnume
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwi be disclosed without Wodd Bak authorization.



CHINA
RAL HAJTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1472-CIA)
PROJECT COOPLETIOR REPORT
PREAC$
This is the Project Completion Report for the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project in China, for which Credit 1472-CIA in the amount
of 8DR 80.2 million (US$85 million equivalent) approved on May 8, 1984.
Appraisal took place in September 1983. The Credit closing date wvs
December 31, 1991, two years behind schedule. The Credit fully disbureed
and the last disbursement was on April 24, 1992.
The ECR was jointly prepared by the Environment, Human Resources
and Urban Developmsnt Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department of
the East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), =nd the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision missiou of the project in 1991, and is based, int2r alua, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, Staff Case Studies and Technical Notes, the
Development Credit and Project Agreemets, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Association and the Borrower, and internal Bank
Group memoranda.



- ii -
RURAL KEALTn AND MKDICAL EDUCATION POJECT
(Credit 1472-CBA)
LVALUATIOI SUNNARX
Proiect Obiectives
1.        This was the first Bank Group-supported health project in China.
The Project evolved from the Government's objectives to: strengthen tho
national health planning capability; reform higher medical education; and
modernize rural health services. The project supported: a) the development
of three natio%aal health research institutions to assist in the first
objective; b) upgrading of facilities and teaching at 13 leading medical
universities to support the second; and c) the modernization of management,
health facilities, medical technology, personnel training and preventive
programs In 46 rural counties of Sichuan, Neilongjiang and Shandong
Provinces and Ningsia But Autonomous Region as pilot areas in which to
demonstrate practical policies for the third objective.
IUwmmnieation Excerience
2.        Implementation was efficient but somewhat slower than planned,
particularly in the case of procurement. Utilization of foreign technical
assistance by the universities presented some difficulty and rather hasty
construction of rural hospital buildings affected the design and qualLty of
some new facilities. The personnel training program In rural areas Lar
exceeded the planned requirement. Equipment provided was generally
suitable and well utilized by the universities, but rural Counties tended
to over-estimate the level of sophistication necessary. All beneficiaries
under-estimated the recurrent costs of supporting the new technology.
3.        The project significantly Improved the planning and evaluation
capabilities of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPS) by establishing the
three national health planning and rosearch institutes. A good model for
future rural public health services was developed which is in the process
of review and replication throughout the nation. Medical education
benefitted significantly from modernization of the 13 universities.
S8-etaInALL11t
4.        The project outcomes in terus of the planned modernization of
China's health services and medical education are likely to be sustained.
The new "One-third Counties Upgrading Program", Initiated by the
Government, now has clearer protocols for health facility rebuilding, re-
equipamet and personnel training. Initial reform of curricula and teaching
metho4ologies for higher medical education has been accomplished and
educational research goals and review mechanisms established.



- iii.
PindinAs and Le_saoas Learned
5.        The project provided the following valuable lessons to China for
future health projects and to IDA for similar efforts in China and
elsewhere.
a)   Large-scale overseas professional training and technical
assistance components yield best returns and become most cost-effective
only when the placement of the trainees and the follow-up activities are
planed properly.
b)   It is important to ansure that competent hospital architectural
services are available to plan technical building proposals for
satisfactory functioning, durability and ease of maintenance.
e)   The establishment of well-organized and staffed project
management offices at all operational levels made a very significant
contribution to the smooth implementation of the project. Projects should
always include necessary personnel training and equipment for these
offices, including, vhere necessary, foreign tralinig and technical
assistance.
d)   In the case of new and innovative project components, clear
guideline, should be developed to enable proper planning of the component.
In this project, counties and universities experienced difficulties in
developing strategies for chronic disease prevention on their own.
e)   Sophisticated items of equipment should be acquired after
careful reviews not only of their need but also of the availability of
future recurrent expenditure, spare parts, availability of properly trained
operators, and the system for monitorin, their use and maintenance.
f)   China urgently needs to establish a national office of medical
technology assessment.
g)   The Project in this now sector would have benefitted froa the
provision of greater assistance to develop the Borrower's procurement
skills.
h)   The gains made in improvements and management of the
universities must now be followed by advancements in financial planning and
budgeting as teaching costs would inevitably rise due to the demands
generated by the reforms.



CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AMD MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1472-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Proiect Identity
Project Name:       Rural Health and Medical Education
Credit number: 1472 CHA
RVP unit:      East Aunia and Pacific Region
Country:       Chins
Sector:        Health
2. Proiect Beekaround
2.1       In three decades since its inception in 1949, the People's
Republic of China had improved the health status of its population to
levels wvll beyond those of most developing countries, doubling the average
expectation of life from its previous low level of 34 years. However, a
substantial proportion of the poorer rural population (roughly 201) failed
to benefit from the general improvement. By the early 1980'., large
investments were needed to modernize the mostly outdated rural health
facilities and to alleviate a severe shortage of adequately trained health
manpower. This was largely the result of ten years of isolation from world
progress in medieal elucation after the Cultural Revolution, which left
medical colleges in substantisal need of educational reform. Furthermore, a
shortage of village health workers was an unintended result of the
introduction of the responsibility system in agriculture in 1980, when many
village 'barefoot doctors' gave up health work to parsue more profitable
farming or other small scale rural enterprises, leaving village clinics
understaffed. In the meantime, the pattern of illness also changed to
increased prevalence of chronic diseases due to changes in demography and
lifestyle. This, in turn, czeated demands for more sophisticated health
facilities, better trained health staff and effective preventive measures
against newer leading causes of death.
2.2.      In response, the Government declared high priorities to: a)
rebuild the rural health care network; b) improve the quality of training
of higher level health personnel; c) develop research institutions capable
of elucidating the epidemiological transition facing the country; d)
retrain village doctors to a three-year professional level; and e) improve
Lealth management.
2.3.      In the rural health area, in 1980, the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPE)o in association with provincial and local governments, began to
upgrade health care in the nation's 2,100 counties in three stages, each of
5-years duration. National and provincial governments jointly contributed
about half of the capital needed while county governments, health bureaux
and end-user institutions made up the remainder. Early results were



disappointing due to funding, planning and implementation weaknesses.
Wealthy counties benefitted most while poorer ones, usually those with the
worst facilities and least trained staff, could rarely approach the
standards set by the Ministry.
2.4.      For improvements in medical education, MOPE designated 13
leading medical universities, including two specialized in traditional
Chinese medicine, as 'key' institutions to restore standards of
scholarship and research after the Cultural Revolution and to speed up the
flow of high level graduates into the health services. They were provided
with modest increases in budget, and permitted to reinstate older
professional staff displaced by the Cultural Revolution. The rights to
send teachers overseas for training and to invite foreign visiting faculty
were restored and undergraduate medical curricula were lengthened to a
minimum of five years. These reforms required the colleges to recruit or
train teaching faculty who would be aware of international progress in
medical education and were able to develop aud introduce new curricula and
teaching methods. Modern facility planning skills and large civil works
outlays ware also needed to update or rebuild libraries, laboratories and
teaching hospitals, many of which were in poor structural and functional
condition.
2.5.      The promotion of effective Chinese traditional medicine
techniques as an integral component of the health services is a basic
objective of Government health policy. There were few institutions in
China capable of the necessary research to validate the therapeutic
properties of the vast national store of medicinal herbs. Therefore, MOPE
instituted modernization of a respected research institution, the Sichuan
Institute of Chinese Materia Modica, which had relatively good research
staff and access to large botanical gardens for experimental cultivation of
medicinal plants.
29-6.     Both the rural health and medical education initiatives were
conceived as pilot activities to provide up-to-date planning and budgeting
information to guide the modernization of the nation's entire health
services. There were, however, no suitably staffed national institutions
to provide timely and reliable research data to support public health
plasing and evaluation needs.  To remedy this problem the Ministry created
a new Research Center for Health Statistics, in 1982, with a mandate to
improve and coordinate the national health statistics systems. Similarly,
although there were a number of national technical institutions responsible
for advanced studies iii public health$, such as the Institutes of
Epidemiology, Parasitic Disease, Virology and Industrial Hygione, their
concerns were mainly with pure research, rather than with operational
studies of the nation's emerging problems in public health, health
management and the preventive medicine needs identified in a recent health
sector study.  This task needed close coordint .ion of the several
institutes under a common managment and with a greatly strengthened
capability in modern epidemiological methods, including those applicable to
chronic disease prevention. Therefore, in 1983, the Ministry established a
National Center for Preventive Medicine.



-3-
3.   Prceect Ob1ective and Deacrintion
3.1.      The main goal of the project was to support the high priority
objectives of the Government, namelys to develop a cost effective strategy
to upgrade the rural health services; to modernize medical education in the
nation's most advanced medical college.l and to develop national
institutions capable of providing the scientific, statistical and
epidemiological bases needed to strengthen national health planning and
disease surveillance.
3.2.      The project consisted of the following three parts:
Part A. A rural health component, about 302 of the total
investment, in 46 selected counties of three provinces and one autonomous
region, serving over 30 million people. The project included financing for
the rehabilitation and upgrading of the health facilities, provision of
essential equipment, personnel training, technical assistance, and a small
amount of incremental staff recruitment and training costs. It also
included inputs to strengthen management capabilities of the four
Provincial and 46 County Health Bureauz.
Part B. A medical education component, about 60% of the
investment, covering 13 key medical universities. The project financed
necessary construction and equipment, faculty training, technical
assistance for modernizing teaching, research, and developments of
cont- Auing education.
Part C. Strengthening of national management capability, about
102 of the investment, in: a) the National Center for Preventive Medicine
(later the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine) to undertake research,
coordinated national disease surveillance, advanced training and public
health information services; b) the Research Center for Health Statistics
(later the Central Health Statistics Institute) to carry out health policy
analyses, research, and data collection and processing for the MOPE; c) the
Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica to undertake research on the
efficacy, safety and modern production of therapeutically important
traditional medicines; and d) the two MOPE bureaux responsible for
management of rural health services and medical education as well as the
Ministry's World Bank Loan Office (later the Foreign Loan Office). The
project provided appropriate physical facilities, equipment, staff training
and technical assistance.
4.   Project Desian and Oranization
4.1.      The project concept was based on the findings of the Bank's
health sector work (China. The Health Soctor, April 1984), which was
carried out by a mission that visited China in September/October 1982, and
on the experience under UNICEF and WHO primary health care activities in
the early 1980's. In line with the recoumendations of the sector report,
the project was designed to meet both existing and projected health
problems of the rural population, to begin reorganization of the training
of health manpowet in China, and to assist in strengthening MOPE'. planning



-4-
capability. This project was China's largest internationally assisted
health project at the time, helping major reforms in the most influential
medical universities as well as improving rural heal7;h care directly
benefiting over 30 million people.
4.2.      Timing of the project was fortunate, meeting the need to provide
technical and financial data to guide the Goverrnment'e recently proposed
plan to upgrade rural health services in "One-third Counties" upgrading
scheme. It also provided timely assistance in the development of the 13
key medical universities, begun in 1977 but inhibited by lack of adequate
funditg snd technical support.
4.3.      There were three new features in the medical education component
in the Chinese context. Firstly, it introduced new subjects into the
curriculum, notably the social and behavioral sciences and chronic disease
aspects of preventive medicine. Secondly, it piloted the introduction of
modern learner-centered teaching methods in place of outdated didactic
teaching. Thirdly, each university was required to assume an expanded role
in further education by establishing national specialized centers in some
of the newly introduced clinical and pedagogical disciplines.
4.4.      A major design factor which was to contribute to successful
implementation was the prompt establishment of project leading groups as
well as the well-staffed World Bank Loan Office (later renamed the Foreign
Loan Office) in MOPE, and similar offices in the provinces and the
concerned institutions. An expert advisory group was set up to coordinate
the activities of the medical universities and, in 1987, the first of
several annual national conferences on the progress of the medical
education project was held to review initial outcomes and to inform all
higher medical universities in the country of the progross of curricular
and methodology reforms.
5. Prolect Imniementation
5.1.      Implementation of most project component. weut better than might
have been expecteJ in view of their complexity, the wide dispersion of
project units, the radical nature of the educational reforms and the
weaknesses of rural health service management. However, the project was
completed in seven years, two years behind the appraisal estimate. The
main reasons for the delay were the time required to build necessary
iustitutions, to gain experience with Bank Group procedures and to carry
out additional activities mentioned in the next paragraph. Procurement
under the project took longer than expected because of the delay In
familiarizing the newly established MOPE Loan Office and the Chinese
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) responsible for importing the
equipment under the Bank Group's procurement procedures. Due to
inexperience, cumbersome methods were used in preparation of large
tendering packages, evaluating bids, arranging contracts and opening
letters of credit. End-users were frustrated by resulting delays In
eelivery. Towards the end of the project, MOPE undertook more frequent and
smaller tendering to reduce the workload.



- 5 -
5.2.      Midway through project  aplementation, it was evident that the
project required a careful review to take stock of the progress achieved
and to identify additional steps needed to meet the original project
objectives as well as to address a few emerging priorities. There were also
unused credit funds due to difficulties in utilizing allocations for
techni_.i. assistance (Gee next paragraph) as vell as due to appreciation of
the SDR vis-a-vis the US dollar. Therefore, in mid-1989, the credit was
reallocated through some reductions in technical assistance and inereased
funding for equipment, program support, and for disease surveillance and
prevention, including activities related to chronic diseases.
5.3.      The government was able to utilize foreign technical assistance
provided under the project less effectively than was previously
anticipated. This was mainly due to the inexperience of the government
departments in p-oviding adequate guidance to the end-users in the
selection and briefing of appropriate experts, insufficient planning and
preparation of in-country activities to yield maximum benefits to all
parties, and lack of overseae follow-up. MOPE has now taken serious
Interest in strengthening its capacity to utilize external technical
assistanee.
5.4.      In the rural health component, the upgrading of equipment,
capital construction and training goals surpressed expectations as the
local governments provided up to 502 more counterpart funds than planned.
As indicated in Table 6 (Part III), there have been significant
improvements in health indicators.  Referrals from lower levels to the
county hospitals decreased to about 502 in Shandong and Sichuan and to
about one-third in Ueilongjiang and Ningxia. Bed occupancy  and average
length of patient stay in hospitals were both positive. A total of about
85,000 bealth workers were trained in the project areas as compared to the
target of about 41,000 workers; the proportion of 3-year trained village
doctors rose by 302 to 502; the numbers and capabilities of higher level
clinicians and laboratory workers increased dramatnically. Both infant and
maternal mortality indicators showed pronounced improvements; and the
prevalence of common infectious diseases recorded substantial decline.
There were also substantial management gains, including improved and better
utilized health information networks, disease surveillance, program
planning and equipment management. All project provinces and counties
established equipment maintenance centers.
5.5.      There were some problems in the rural component, however. Most
counties tended to give priority to strengthening the higher level curative
services to the detriment of primary care and prevention. Sometimes, new
services and clinical or laboratory procedures were developed that were
Inappropriate to the role of county level institutions. Construction of
now rural hospitals was frequently undertaken too soon after the project
began and, in some cases, both the appropriateness of design and the
quality of construction were suboptimal to the demands of modern medical
and nursing practice. Rospital buildinge were often more difficult and
expensive to maintain because of poor quality construction. Most counties
overestimated the level of sophistication of equipment needed and sometimes
rejected quite satisfactory Chinese-made items in favor of more costly



- 6 -
imports without due regard to the utilization rates, long-tenrm recurrent
costs and likely benefits of the equipment. There was also a tendency to
make a profit by over-using new procedures and equipment to generate
revenue for the institutions, regardless of clinical need. After a review
of equipment utilization by the MOPE in 1987, the equipment plan for rural
counties was revised to counteract these trends and there vas a
considerable improvement during the later years.
5.6.      The medical education component sharply increased both the
numbere and the proportion of trained faculty, as more than 1,000 teachers
benefitted from overseas training. In-country selection and preparation of
candidates for overseas training, including language and computer literacy,
were generally performed well. A few problems arose from the failure to
plan the location and duration of overseas training posts adequately, and
from the distribution of fellowships pro-rata to departments rather than
according to institution-wide needs. On the whole, the overseas training
experience was highly beneficial. A small percentage of teachers has so
far failed to return to China after training, most having obtained
temporary or permanent positions in the host countries. Nevertheless, in
many cases, they continue to provide useful linkages between their Chinese
institutions and host colleges. Foreign technical assistance was neither
fully implemented nor utilized as well as possible by most of the 13
universities.
5.7.      Overall, student-centered learning was given a much higher
profile with more uncommitted study time available for the students,
supplemented by better access to improved library resources, modern
audiovisual teaching aids, computers, well equipped laboratories, and
foreign language training. Practical clinical training was improved by
partial decentralization from tertiary teaching hospitals to include field
experienc, in small hospitals and clinics at new community teaching bases,
which enabled the students to mdertake epidemiological studies of common
problems and brought them into closer socio-medical contact with the rural
people and their health problems. Enrichment of continuing medical
education was a particularly effective subcomponent, with more than 70,000
in-service students enrolled in various types of general and specialist
courses. Stomatology, an area of manpower shortage prior to the project
and a weak area all over China, was considerably expanded by many colleges.
5,8.      The Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPS) implemented
the project smoothly. By 1987, it had established a computerized disease
surveillance system for the whole country, routinely collecting data from
71 surveillance points in 29 provinces. The program was, however, shown to
under-represent the poorer rural areas and in 1989, 145 randomly selected
surveillance points were added, leading to more accurate and timely data on
infectious diseases. More recently, work has begun to add some major non-
communicable diseases to the network. The Academy has carried out much
major research; examples include the study of the national prevalence of
hepatitis B; national smoking-related mortality and costs; occupatiomal
disease patterns in rural enterprisesl and the early diagnosis of naso-
pharyngeal cancer. It collaborated with Cornell and Oxford Universities in
one of the largest studies of risk factors for chronic disease ever



- 7 -
undertaken and with WHO and UNICEF in studying nutrition in rural children.
These studies have contributed important data for health policy analysis.
CAPM has also developed rapid and cheap laboratory methods for diagnosis of
the common viral diseases and has become the nation's leading producer of
hepatitis B vaccine. The academy has implemented a large program of
technical assistance to the provincee, including professional training in
epidemiology, direct consultations, and support for field research and
program development.
5.9.      When the project began, China had no unified nationwide health
statistics reporting system and no regular tabulations of data on health
manpower, facilities, workloads, economics or effectiveness of public
health programs. The National Center for Health Statistics lacked trained
staff and equipment to achieve its objectives. In 1985, external technical
assistance helped to plan and organize the unit, establish links with
leading foreign institutions, develop a staff training plan and identify
necessary computer and other equipment needed. During the project period,
the number of professional staff reached 30, two thirds of whom received
substantial training overseas. The Center has developed into a training
institution since 1987. In addition, several universities introduced
training for specialists in health statistics and computer science, thereby
providing about 130 graduates to staff the national and provincial
institutions involved in the processing of health statistics. A large and
well housed computer system with database library, survey analysis
capability, signal/image processing and nationwide networking was provided,
together with appropriate commercial software. The center is now producing
software for specific national statistical needs and for the operational
needs of the line departments of the Ministry. Production of computerized
national health statistics has been implemented in phases, initially, in
1986, using floppy disks mailed by provinces to the Center. By 1989,
several provinces were able to transfer data electronically and the basic
in-house Ministry network has now been completed.
5.10.          Under the project, the Sichuan Institute of Materia Medica
received overseas training for ten executive staff, external technical
assistance, in-country training for 60 supporting research personnel, re-
equipping with modern analytical facilities, revision of research
methodology, clinical trials, and new building. (from counterpart funding)
for a library and several laboratories. The library has developed an
impressive collection of Chinese and foreign texts and journals and at the
same time initiated English language training for many of the staff of 400
technical personnel. Eight significant research projects were initially
developed and five were successfully concluded.  Many other studies have
since commenced on the therapeutic efficacy of frequently proscribed and
empirically effective herbs.  The Institute has developed an extensive
training program in modern analytical and clinical pharmacological methods
for research workers of other Chinese traditional medicine institutes. It
has also become the main reference center for native plant studies in China
with extensive international connections.



6.   Project Results
6.1.      The project was very vauccessful in achieving practically all of
its basic objectives. As stated above, the original project targets were
exceeded in many key areas, including the construction of hospitals,
provisior of essential equipment and materials, the training of rural
doctors as well as the improvements in higher medical education. There was
remarkable progress in the building of important national health
institutions. The mapower study was completed in two provinces in 1988 and
that provided valuable planning information. Improved management method.,
in the context of project preparation and implementation, benefitted
considerably the MOPE, provinces and counties. Notable improvements in the
approaches to equipment requests and the planning of hospital facilities
were evident in the later parts of the project. Many long- term agreements
have been concluded between the major Chinese colleges and institutes
included in the project and leading overseas centers. Major reforms were
achieved in the key medical universities whose effects and academic
exchanges have favorably influenced the curricula and teaching methods of
other non-project medical colleges in China. The number of higher academic
posts increased in all colleges.
6.2.      Protect Imiact. The training of village doctorss the provision
of equipment, and the improvements in management practices introduced under
the project have significantly improved the quality and utilization of the
health services in all project countieso. Most rural hospitals have
reported lower average lengths of stay for patients and a rise in the
proportion of outpatient attendance. The availability of more adequate
tranaport greatly strengthened field supervision and enabled more rapid
life-saving emergency services to be provided for maternal, neonatal and
other cases of acute illness. Utilization rates of lower level services
have risen with a reduction in referral rates for higher level care. At
provincial level, the quality of planning and supervision of rural health
programs has improved as a result of the management training, and its
impact bas extended beyond the project counties and benefitted rural areas
province-wide. The MOPE has reported that the response of the project
provinces to the "one-third counties upgrading program" has been far better
than that in non-project provinces, in terms of increased local interest
and funding, better disease surveillance, efficiency in immnization and
NCM activities and the prevention of chronic diseases. However, two issues
have been identified for further attentiou by most counties: the
improvement in the training of epidemic prevention station (BPS) staff and
the strengthening of the county level management awareness of EPS and MCE
staff in modern health edLucation theory and practices.
6.3.      Medical technology policy in China has benefitted greatly from
analysis of cost-benefit relationships and of recurrent costs as they
relate to the provision of advanced medical equipment under the project.
However, despite the existence of stricter guidelines for requests by end
users, China still lacks a national office of medical technology
assessment. This is a serious weakness which is retarding improvements in
the quality of care and cost containment efforts.



9 -
7.   Project Sustainabilitv and Renlicabilitv
7.1.      There is little doubt th&t all project beneficiaries will have
both the interest and ability to sustain the reforms introduced under the
project. However, it is also clear that the rural health service units as
well as the medical universities will have to do a better job of eatimating
and providing the necessary recurrent costs for expendables, spare parts
and maintenance in the future if the modern equipment and procedures
introduced under the project are to be continuously and effectively used.
Provision for amortization and equipment replacement must also be made from
the revenues accruing from its use, but care should be exercised by the
county health bureaus to prevent over-use of tests and procedures solely to
raise income and without clear clinical benefit. Regular maintenance of the
n.iv and renovated hospitals will be essential if they are to remain in good
functional and hygienic condition; this implies the need for proper
maintenance and for economic use of expendables.
7.2.      Educational reforms in the 13 universities have progressed to
the point where reversal to outdated didactic teaching is most unlikely to
occur. But the reforms are not yet complete. The new emphasis on student
self-learning requires that libraries be fully developed as learning
resource centers. Future training of faculty will need to ensure that the
attitudes and skills of younger staff are consistent with the new teaching
theory and practice. There is some risk that the teaching of strategies
for preventing diseases, including long-term care and rehabilitation, may
decline in importance after the project has ended. This can be avoided if
preventive medicine is emphasized In teaching by all the clinical
disciplines, not only by departments of public health, and if sufficient
progrcm cupport funds are made available to mautnin thz  reutl -'
community based experience for senior medical students. The subjects of
mental health, geriatrics and child development still require further
development by most of the colleges. The MOPH should consider the
establishment of more National Centers at selected colleges to encourage
research and enrichment of teaching in preventive and social medicine.
7.3.      Improved financial management by the colleges, and possibly a
change to global budgeting of colleges by the MOPE, will be necessary as
the colleges absorb the full burden of operational costs. The rural
counties may need to divert a proportion of their diagnostic and treatment
revenues to support the important but non-revenue operating costs for the
preventive program.
7.4.      Replicability of many of the project inputs and methodology to
the nation's rural health and higher medical education systems is fessible
and the process has actrially begun in rural health as well as in medical
education. MOPE should anlyse the costs and benefits of various
components in collaboration with specialist line bureaus to identify
critically important follow up actions, such ass a) review of the cost-
effective aspects of the project that could modernize teaching in the
provincial medical culleges; b) establishment of a national center for
medical technology assessment; and c) strengthening of Foreign Loan Offices
in the provinces to reinforce the improvements in rural health.



- 10 -
8. Association Performance
8.1.      This project was the IDA's first experience working with the
Chinese MOPH and it was an intensive learning exercise, for both parties,
in identifying the components that matched the modernization objectives of
the Government and that were also potentially replicable to the rest of the
nation. The strength of thc Bank Group's contribution lay in thorough
preparation by a large team of Bank Group staff and expert consultants,
supplemented by inputs of WHO and UNICEF. The 1982 health sector study
clarified the dynamics of China's health system and its changing health
needs. This information was supplemented by case studies in each project
province and some medical universities. The IDA assisted the MOPH to
establish efficient loan management departments for the project. These
efforts were effective in ensuring an efficient administration for all
future health projects.
8e2.      The Association's missions provided important technical know-
how. There were eight supervision missions with experts in many
disciplines, such as computer science, technology assessment,
institutional development, audio-visual production, hospital design,
technical assistance management and equipment maintenance.
9.  Borrower Performance
9.1.      The Borrower's performance was excellent, especially because of
well-organized and staffed loan management offices at the center as well as
at local levels. Lack of familiarity with the Bank Group's management,
financial, procurement and supervision requirements posed some problems in
the beginning, but these were soon overcome as staff were trained. During
the life of the project, the MOPE has adopted many of the lessons learned
on project preparation, data presentation, reporting, facility design,
equipment selection and procurement and project management in its regular
practice.
10. Project Relationshins
10.1.          Relationships between the Bank, the MOPE, provincial
governments, health bureaus and health institutions were cordial.
Throughout the project, the effectiveness of post-mission meetings with the
provincial authorities, the Minister or Vice Minister of Public Health,
supported by appropriate line bureau staff, and UN agencies was noteworthy.
11. Consulting Services
11.1.          The project depended heavily on the technical assistance
provided by more than 200 foreign and many local experts. Some disciplines
were new or poorly developed in China, e.g., health management and
economics, clinical epidemiology, social medicine, medical psychology and
health education.



- 11 -
12.  Prolect Documentation and Data
12.1.          Several background working papers were prepared by IDA
staff on the health status and services of the four provinces. The Staff
Appraisal Report provided satisfactory guidance for project Implementation.
The Development Credit Agreement was amended, in mid-1989, to reallocate
the unspent credit balance from the technical assistance component and
savings generated by SDR appreciation to cover unforeseen local costs of
some rural counties, to add additional training for one province and to
postpone the Closing Date for two years.
13. Pro1ect Monitorina
13.1.          MOPE carried out the overall coordination of the project
activities through its Foreign Loan Office (FLO), which is the successor of
the World Bank Loan Office established in connection with this project.
Although PLO initially suffered from the unfamiliarity of the Bank
procedures, it gradually developed into a very efficient department of MOPE
and was effective in monitoring the project's progress and coordinating
different components of the project. Similarly, Loan Offices were also
established in each of the other implementation units, like the
universities and the provincial and county-level health agencies
responsible for the implementation of different components of the project.



- 12 -
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTITVE
------------------------------------------------------
1.   Comments on Part I
1.1       In PART I of the World Bank Project Completion Report, a brief
introduction was given to the background of the project, its objectives,
isplementation plan, components, and goals expected to attain through the
Implementation of activities under each respective component. It has
analyzed the implementation process, the achievements and experiences, the
existing problems, and the tendencies of a general nature as observed in
its implementation. In the Borrower's view, this is a good, comprehensive
summary of the project.
1.2        The evaluation in PART I of the Project Completion Report has
mirrored, in the main, the actual reality including the level of
sophistication and utilization of equipment. In fact, the situation of
over-sophistication and under-utilization of equipment did exist in the
initial stage of project activities performed in certain county epidemic
prevention stations (EPS). Professional staff at county EPSs in all project
provinces wers found unfamiliar with, and incapable of, handling these
certain advanced monitoring and surveillance equipment. Therefore, the
health bureaux of project provinces sponsored training courses with the
hope to help them understand, in a shortest possible time, the way of its
operation. The under-utilization of some equipment has thus been overcome
leading to the attainment of the goals established for the project and to
the fulfillment of the surveillance taske assigned to them by the project.
But due to the lack of experiences, a few project provinces (i.e. Ningxia)
got som more advanced and sophisticated equipment which were not suitable
for the EPSs. The provinces corrected this by assigning those equipment to
the higher level institutions and providing the county EPSs with more
suitable ones.
1.3       Compared to BPS, the problems of over-sophistication and
under-utilization of equipment were not so terrible at hospitals, both at
county- and township-levels. It has been found that the advanced
equipment, as purchased, have enabled them to improve and strengthen the
quality of their diagnostic and therapeutic services. Actually, through
the strengthening and improvement of equipment, the hospitals both at
county- and township-levels enhanced their capability in providing
qualified services, hence, reduced the rate of referral.
1*4       The Bank report ha. stated that the input from the counterpart
funds to capital construction surpassed the original planed figures. It
indicated that government at various levels were determined firmly to
remedy the lack of health service facilities caused by the past "Great
Cultural Revolution" by increasing financial input from the counterpart
funds on one handg and on the other, it indicated the inappropriateness of



- 13 -
plan. Since the project preparation had not paid attention to the entire
plan, the Government had to increase the counterpart fund for construction
during the project implementation. The rising cost was another major
factor causing increase in counterpart funds.
1.5       The irrational designing and .1.nadequate quality in hospital
construction, as seen in the project implementation, have aroused the
attention of the Ministry of Public Health, and governments of the project
provincee, vho have respectively set up specific institutions to cope with
it and adopted measures for a remedy. For instance, the Department of
Planning and Finance under the Ministry of Public Health has set up an
office specifically for the study of hospital construction design. The
office is to take up the overall responsibility for the examination and
verification of the conceptual design and blueprints of hospital
construction with the aims to standardize the hospital design and
construction, to ensure the functioning of hospital facilities to meet
medical services' needs, and to improve quality of construction.
Corresponding institutions and mechanism have been set up at all project
provinces; and the system of examination and verification have been applied
in the implementation on Health II and, even more effecti-elys, in Health
III projects'.
1.6       Certain challenges and difficulties in organization and finance
vere encountered in the carrying out of chronic disease prevention and
control at the county level, but these are problem. over the whole nation.
The Ministry of Public Health has become aware of it and has taken lead in
the carrying out of control activities of the four target diseases in large
municipalities such as Beijing and Tianjin where conditions are ripe as
pilots.
1.7       At the initial stage of the project implementation, there was an
issue of inadequate project operation and recurrent costs. This reflected
the general tendency of putting more emphasis, when planning and financing
health services, on one-time investment, including the physical facilities,
but less attention on program activities and their operation and recurrent
costs. The project provinces tried with every effort to re-adjust their
plan and to find remedies. And, the Chinese Government and the World Bank
decided, after discussion, to establish a disbursement category of "program
support" to partly solve the issue of lack of operation and recurrent
costs, and the shortage of these costs was overcome.  Thesestablishment of
"program support" has played a supportive role in the implementation of the
project at the later stage. It is particularly crucial to the successful
completion of a number of sub-items of research arising in the course of
the project implementation; and the Program Support is of help to
construction of community training bases for medical universities.
1. Health I means the Rural Health and Medical Education Project (Cr.
1472-CM), the subject of this PCR9 Health II means the Rural Health and
Preventive Medicine Project (Ln 2723/Cr. 1713-CMA, of January 1987)9 and
Health III means the Integrated Regional Health Development Project (Cr.
2009-CMA, of September 1989).



- 14 -
However, its optimal solution depends .An certain changes and re-adjustents
of policy at the national level.
2. Evaluation of IDA's Performance
2.1       Health I project was the first project with foreign loans
implemented through the cooperation of the World Bank sad the Ministry of
Public Health of China. The Bank officials have contributed fruitfully to
the project in its course of preparation and evaluation as well as in the
aspects of giving guidance and supervision in its implementation.
2.2       Most of the Bank officialo and the consultants invited for the
project were most competent, and many of them were familiar with the
conditions of the China. Their instruction and guidance have greatly
inspired the project managerial staff of this side.
2.3       During their stay in China, officials on the Bank missious have
manifested themselves with a rigorous scientific working style, and with an
experienced and managerial skill. Their admirable performance is an
inseparable constituent part to the success of the project.
2.4       In the first three years since the implementation of the
project, five missions were despatched by the World Bank for investigation
and supervision, and more than three missions for supervision were sent in
the following years. The missions had an important role to play in the
supervision of the project implementation, particularly so for departments
concerned that are responsible for the implementation of project with
foreign loans for the first time. We hope the Bank would continue the
effort of making such supervision.
3*. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
3.1       The Health I project is the first project undertaken by MOPE
with large smount of loans from external sources. The project covers the
sensitive issues in areas of rural health development, medical education
reforms, and the raising of capability at the central level in managerial
activities and policy studies. However, project managerial staff at all
levels of this country are inadequate in their experience and are
unfamiliar with the managerial procedures. As a remedy, foreign loan
offices were set up and properly staffed respectively under MOPE and under
each of the project provinces and counties.
3.2       In order to play its role to the maximum, the Foreign Loan
Office of MOPE serves as a department directly under the Ministry and has
due authority in the management and supervision of project activities
performed by project provinces. While paying attention to the development
of hardware facilities, it stressed much on activities relating to
technical assistance and manpower development. It is through the visits of
consultants and training of its working staff that the managerial
capability of the Office has emoothly undertaken the increased workload
arising from new health projects, including Health II, III, the Infectious



- 15 -
and Endemic Disease Control Project (Cr. 2317-CdA of December 1991) and
others under preparation, with a few additional new recruits.
3.3       Another causative factor of the smooth !mplementation of the
project was the proper handling of working relationship in all departments
concerned. They include the departments of MOPE and other ministries,
commissions at the central level, the State Planning Commission, the
Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade. In health sector, the concerned departments weret the Foreign Loan
Office of MOPE and other departments under the Ministry, including the
Department of Medical Education, the Department of Medical Administration,
and the Department of Planning and inance; and the governments and health
bureaux of project provinces. The project objectives were unlikely to
attain without the cooperation and support of all departments listed above.
It was, therefore, the coordination role played by the MOPE and its Foreign
Loan Office that facilitated the coordinated efforts of all departments and
thus ensured the success of the project.
3.4       Foreign loan offices at the provincial level have played a
prominent role in the implementation of project mainly in the management,
supervision and giving guidance to activities performed by the foreign loan
offices at the county-level. They have been proved competent not only in
their managerial capability over the project counties, but also in their
guidance to the routine health activities of non-project counties of the
province, particularly in their dissemination of the modern managerial
procedure as learnt from the World Bank. Health services as a whole in all
counties of the provinces have been strengthened. Take the disease
surveillance activities, for instance. With the establishment of the
project with foreign loans, the provincial network of disease surveillance
has taken shape and perfected. It helps to further improve the accuracy of
data collected and further lower the drop-out rate. Thanks to the efforts
and work performance of the foreign loan offices at the provincial level,
health and other services of the project counties have become, in general,
model and exemplary counties of the province.
4.   Proiect Relationship
4.1       In the course of implementation of the project, there has been a
good cooperative relationship between this side and the World Bank, and
between MOPE and its affiliated Foreign Loan Office and the World Bank is
particularly fruitful. There has been an attituds, of friendly cooperation
and mutual support prevailing in the past seven years of project
implemeatation between China and the World Bank
4.2       The World Bank has rendered important support and guidance
relating to hard- and soft-ware facilities to the MOPE and its Foreign Loan
Office by despatching its top-ranking consultants to this side. Errors and
difficulties in implementation activities have been properly handled after
reaching a consensus through consultation. In the course of
implementation, both sides tried, with every efforts, to exchange views and
opinions in order to attain common understanding and agreement for
solution of issues.



- 16 -
4.3       The fruitful cooperation between this side and the World Bank
has found its expression also in the close communication by the electronic
mail between the two sides. The Foreign Loan Office of MOPS has maintained
a very frequent contact with the World Bank, which ensures a prompt
feedback to all information and proposals provided, and both sides are vell
informed of the latest progress of the implementation activities of the
project.
5.   Evaluation of Co-financiers' Performance
5.1       This project received, from its preparation stage till its
completion, valuable help and support from all departments concerned within
the country and all international organizations from outside, a clear
manifestation of their solicitude for the project. Of particularly worthy
of memtion is the efforts extended by the World Health Organization (WHO)
in the preparation stage of the -roject. WHO played an important
promotional role in the establishment of the first health project in this
country with loans from the World Bank. The Chinese side is deeply
impressed with the efforts extended by all international organizations
concerned towards this project.
5.2       Due contributions have been made towards this project by the
State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the governments at
provincial and county levels, and local health bureaux of project provinces
and counties. The guidance and input of the State Planning Commission and
Ministry of Finanue is a good manifestation of the importance attached to
and supports toward the health
services of the country, as well as the strong determination of the state
for the realization of China's modernization. The active inputs (in terms
of manpower, material and finance) of prov*icial and county goverments is
a clear indication of their confidence in the success of the project. The
endeavor of all staff of health bureaux and all professionals at the
grassroots have been proved fruitful constituting a basic guarantee to the
successful fulfillment of the project.
6.   Comments on Part III Tables
6.1       It is confirmed that the factual information provided in Part
III are adequate and accurate.



- 17 -
Table 1 - Related Bank Logas and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit         Purpose                   Year of         status
Title                                     Anuroval
Rural Health  Improve access and quality    June        All component
& Preventive   of rural health, immuniza-    1986        satisfactorily
Medicine        tion, drug quality and                   completed.
Project        chronic and communicable            Vaccine plants
diseases care.                      under construction.
Integrated          Introduce new apprvaches       April
Satisfactory
Regional       to health policylplnaning      1989      progress.
Health Devel.  of integrated health to
Project        improve health services.
Infectious &   Support national program December  Implementation
Endemic Dise-  to control TB and schisto-    1991        started satief-
ase Control         somiasis and to stren;then                actorily.
Project        related institutions.
Table 2 - Prolect Timetable
Item                     Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification                                     December 1, 1982
Preparation                                             June 1983
Appraisal                                           September 1983
Negotiations                                       March 1984
Board approval                                     May 8, 1984
Credit Signing                                     June 1, 1984
Credit Effectiveness           September 4, 1984              August 29,
1984
Project Completion       June 30, 1989             December 31, 1991
Credit Closing           December 31, 1989              December 31, 1991



- 18 -
TJAI&3t Cumulative Eetmated sad Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative     Actal      Actual
Appraisal gstimated       Actual         Actual       as 2 of     as 2 of
Bank FY   Estimates  Cumulative  Disbursement Disbursement  Cumulative    Total
1985
lot         --          --          1.90          1e90            --         22
2nd       15.5        15.5          4.61          6.51           422         72
1986
1st       15.5        31.0         18.84         25.35           822        262
2nd       13.0        44.0         15.26         40.61           922        422
1987
lot       13.0        57.0          7.46         48.07           842        502
2nd        9.5        66.5          8.62         56.69           852        592
1988
lot        9.5        76.0          3.66         60.35           792        622
2nd        3.0        79.0         13.67         74.02           942        772
1989
lot        3.0        82.0          1.32         75.34           922        78%
2nd        1.5        83.5          1.16         76.5            922        792
1990
let        1.5        85.0          1.33         77.83           92S        81X
2nd         --        85.0          4.49         82.32           972        852
1991
lot         --        85.0          3.49         85.81          1012        892
2nd         --        85.0          2.85         88.66          1042        922
1992
1st         --        85.0          5.85         94.51          1112        982
2nd         --        85.0          2.16         96.67a1        1142       1002
a/ The actual amount disbursed Increased in terms of US$ due to devaluation US$ vs.
SDR durinS Implemetation.
Sources MSI Disbursement Information



Table 4a. P   lt bM   an In Prowincas
Shandong              toIlonga                 Sichuan                 Nlngxla
Ruml Co1aniIs             Plafl Actual Remars Plannd Acual  Remars Planned  MaI  ROmarks Planned ,Actual Remarcs
Total consuctin (mi)       91400 164637      (1)   74.5 152494          190486 320087            37202  50455
HospkalbedfW000             1.01   1.18             1.46   1.66            1.18   1.26     (6)    1.10   1.18
EqulpmentproWded(US$10Q    7900  08          (2)  7000   7768            10605  11792.            3219 3821.00
Told count lecWfprsJO000    1.41   1.55             1.77   2.12                   1.49             1.70   1.78
Chief & atending pysninO0O  00004  0.021         0.0034  0.022                    0.29                    0.32
Vilagedoctoru'1000          1.54   1.61             0.7   0.84                    1.29              0.9   0.97
VUL  s. &Jun.med. tralned %   15     47            3906  10874      (5)    sO  72.01                80  81.13
Tolal tech. persons tmd     7008  19414      (3)  8578  20771        (5)  13399  23579             966   1896
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (4 5 81 )  ( 9 7 84 )  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. The numbw of 91400 m Is composed of 290 m contrucd for the province evel
2. The diference between Planned and Actual Is caused by the exchange rate.
3. In this Une, the mmber of village doctors trained Is Included.
4. In this ene, the number of village doctors trained Is not Included.
5. Person times
6. Hosptal bedsIlO00 of 1.18 under the column ot Planned" In Slchuan
Is thenumber In 1984.



- 20 -
TABLES
A. PROJI COSTS (US D1?LLARS 1.000)
Appraisal EsUmate        Actual
Local     Foreign    Local      Foregn
Cos        Costs
Construction                   140.986               248,408
Equlpmnt, Vehices              497,769     65,436    100,539     74,412
Tralning                        10,168      9,221      5,824      9.054
Tech, assistance                 1,999      6,974      1,809      3,215
Pesonnel Rcuitment               4,929                22
s. PROJECT FINANCING (US S 1.000)
Source of Funds                     Planned               Actual
A. Rural Health                 28,800                           37,406
8. Medical Educatlon            36,000                           46,00
C. Strengheonn of
management miatlon
research                        4.8                              6,482
D. Project ImplemeoL             2.700                            6,694
E Confngencies                  12,700
DQMEESI
A. Cntal Govt                  178,400                          124,663
B. Provincial Govt.             14,300                           82,105
. County Govt.                  38,400
0. Sub-County sources            6
1t IDA sJar Incred  In terms Of US dollar as SOR spprOciated
21 Fncana reoranizaton in China changed the shares of different
Pawes&



TABLE 4b: Proect  leMeaon - UneutMles Enrotlments and Faclt Stall
W___      ____    _     _                  Enrollment                                         St'           __
Undergraduate         Graduate          Faculty Staff       Faculty Stalf       Facutly Staff
(numb)              (numbe)          posls total         Prof. & Assoc.      Lectr. & Assist.
Before    After     Before    After    Before     After    Bstore     After    Before     After
Project   Prolect   Project   Prolect   Prolect   Prolect   Prolect   Prolect   Prolect   Prolect
L1)0   (1991 1!  f            Lili)    11f~       (199f     (j!       1991)    (18)    (1991)
song Colle deTCM                 240        258        24       316      261       434        47   ',145         234       289
BeqlngModlcal Unlvty             426        630       130       267       529      1086      281       359       248       n7
Peking Union Medical Unet                                                                     121
ChlMedloaldiUnW y                536        435       164       184       956       969                 92       266       377
Guangzhou COlW  of TCM                                                    383       785       35        151      348       634
Hunan MdlcalUnbvrsky             248        630        51       125                 916       138      283        156      508
NomrnBelmeMedlcalUnher           496        630        13       130                919       281       443       154       476
hanghaMedlcaUnverufty            400       58          78      241                 878       310       575       154       603
Shandog Medcal Unverst           353       5iB         40        96      572       753        87       215       156       538
West Chlna MdlcalU Wnlv          342        610        s0       165      1224      1012       160       291      160       720
Tong  Medcal nWety               473        600        63       202                 859       257      293       158       620
Xlan MedkaUnlveruty              240       540         37       82                 1104                314       168-      790
SunYatsenUrdv. ofMed.So.         400       470         62      183                 650       152       189       179       479
ToaJ~~s>   :~'~          ~       '4154~;  5885    274g'991              3925    1036   t.1335   i. 1.676" * t



Shandong               HeioajIngw                f4ngxa                  Siciwuan
Beore   After           Before   After          Beore   After           Before   After
pW    roecgj  Remar s o          fc  Rein    P  Prolec   Pjdj Remark    Pe           t Remarks
Infan motaly ras               21.65   19.67           35.53   23.21           45.50   34.41           42.09   31.34
Matemalamonttyr"d               0.05    0.04            0.08    0.02            0.11    0.09            0.12    0.06
Antenatal exam. rae            62.66   85.38           68.90   97.30           54.51   84.75           61.95   75.05
Incidence nfetilous diae      339.28  127.76          243.90  142.14          490.81  238.14          436.64  351.41
1_c1dEnce To                 338.68  163.48          528.54  445.33          1155.80  567.70          743.24  531.44
Incidence lnfant  pneumonia    4.77    4.24             688 0    .71           30.38    5.68            4.71    3.17
lcldemcelnfantdarrhoea         1659   15.13             7.26    6.99           56.49  .11.96           11.29    6.66
4-vacne rate children          89.05   97.56           88.56   97.73           91.79   97.26           74.53   93.58
Hoskal oopaM nre              38.21   59.04           5645   57.03            69.70   77.61           61.33   60.96                "
Refer to county rate            0.10    0.06            0.10    0.03            0.14    0.04            0.01    0.01
Aveae lenh hoSp. stay           7.55    8.74            7.43    6.18           12.24   10.56            7.09    7.22
Heafteducaton stall no.       24300  330.O0           56.00  190.00           88.00  105.00          745.00 1109.00
% heallh educ. In pmay school   0.81   70.21          12.32   80.99            2.05   52.42            5.81   59.74
% health educ. In scdarysch   10.16   82.95           3.22   80.40            12.84   43.90            7.02   80.18
Comet on Takbe 6 .Itesulsl 8Seected cositiv Indcaors
1. Substantial falls In IMR and MMR, folowing improvements In MCH care.
The mbovmen was lss In Shandong. where pre-proect URand VWU were already low.
2. Ag prOvinces report large reductons In communcable diseases.
3.  Health eduation progams have been considerably deveoped.
4.  Immunatin of school children has reached almost 100% cove,ag



- 23 -
lz~be Z   Staras of CovNants
Covenant                Subject                      DeadlLiae   Status
Credit Agreement
Section 3.02           Borrower to pass part
of Credit to local
Entities under terms
satisfactory to IDA/GOC       N.A.       Fulfilled
Section 3.03           Employ conxultants With
terms/qua'lifications
satisfactory to IDA            .A         Fulfilled
Section 3.06            (a) Carry out health
manpower study;              6/30/86      Completed in
June 1988
(b) furnish report
for IDA's coments                        Fulfilled
Section 3.09            laintain KOPH Loan
Office with approp-
riate staffing                   -       Fulfilled
Section 4.01           Submit audited accounts       Each 6/30   Fulfilled
Prolgct Agremet=
Section 2.01 (a)       Each Local Entity to
provide adequate funds
to implemet its part.           F- Fulfilled
Section 2.0'           Each Local Entity to
maintain a Loan Office
throughout project
implementation                ---        Fulfilled
T*be 8A - B*k  rn  Saff Innue
(Staff veeks)
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned                 Actual
Preappraisal                                                80.2
Appraisal                                                   62.2
NegotiationA                                                28.0
Supervision                             _IZ
Total                                                295.1



- 24 -
Table 9 - Bank Group Missions
Project Cycle       Month/    No of     Specialization'     Performance
Year      Persons                       Rating
Reconnaissance      3/82      4         PH, EP, EC
Identification      9/82      5         EC, PH, EP
HE, PE
Preparation         1/83      4         EC, ME, PH
Preparation         3/83      2         PH
Preparation         4/83      2         EC, HE
Preparation         6/83      3         PH, FMi
Appraisal           9/83      7         EC, PH, FM, AR, ME  -
Post-Appraisal      2/84      3         EC, PH
Supervision         7/84      3         EC, PH, HE          1
Superwision         3/85      2         PE, EC              1
Supervision         8/85      3         PHt, PR 
Supervision         5/86      7         EC, HE, PH, MEI     1
Supervision         10/86     1         pH4                 1
Supervision         12/86     3         FM, EC, PH          1
Supervision         3/87      3         Pit                 I
Supervsion          11/87     1         Fl                  1
Supervision         9/88      6         IN4, CH, PH, ME     1
Supervision         4/90      1         P1M                 1
1 Specialization:
AR - Architect      CM - Computer       EC - Economist
Specialist
E1 - Epidemlo-     FM - Finance &      HE - Health Economist
logist             Managmnt
HE - Medical        PE - Population     PH - Public Health
Educator            Economist           Specialist
Pa - Pharmacist



