Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE QC11~cl, 'A
F- 
Report No. P -3 7 7 9 -CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 80,200,000
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
April 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 = Y 2.0 (December 1983)
Y 1 = US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
CNTIC                   -    Chinese National Technical Import Corporation
MCH                     -    Maternal and Child Health
MOPH                    -    Ministry of Public Health
NCPM                    -    National Center for Preventive Medicine
RCHPS                   -    Research Center for Health Planning and
Statistics
SICMM                   -    Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica
WBLO                    -    World Bank Loan Office  .
WHO                     -    World Health C)rganization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 People's Republic of China
Amount                    IDA Credit:  SDR 80.2 million ($85.0 million
equivalent)
Terms                     Standard
Project Description       The project would provide funds for civil works,
furniture, equipment, technical assistance and
fellowships to help: (a) improve health status in 46
counties of three provinces (Heilongjiang, Shandong
and Sichuan) and one autonomous region (Ningxia Hui);
(b) enhance the quality of education, training and
related research in the country's 13 core medical
col.leges and to increase these colleges' capacity to
provide continuing education and training materials
to practitioners and to faculty of the over 100
province-level medical colleges; and (c) develop two
recently created national institutions -- the
National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM) and
the Research Center for Health Planning and
Statistics (RCHPS) - and support applied research at
the Sichuan Institute for Chinese Materia Medica
(SICMM).
The main project risk is that the Ministry of
Public Health (MOPH) staff may lack the necessary
management skills and breadth of experience to carry
through proposed changes in medical education and
training and proposed creation of new institutional
capabilities. This risk is reduced, however, by
inclusion of substantial technical assistance and
overseas training, by provision for careful selection
of key project staff, and by establishment of a
project monitoring and reporting system to allow
prompt identification of potential problems. Since
the project is the first major externally aided
activity in the sector, some degree of risk is both
anticipated and acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -.
Estimated Cost:                                    Local       Foreign      Total
---   (US$ million)…---------
A.  Strengthening of Rural Health
1.  Construction                                 42.2           -          42.2
2.  Equipment                                     2.0         25.2         27.2
3.  Training                                      5.7           -           5.7
4.  Technical Assistance                          0.5           -           0.5
5.  Personnel Recruitment                         4.6           -           4.6
Subtotal, A                                 55.0         25.2          80.2
B.  Strengthening of Medical Education
1.  Construction                                 65.8           -          65.8
2.  Equipment                                    33.7         26.7         60.4
3.  Training                                      3.8          5.1          8.9
4.  Technical Assistance                          1.3          4.2          5.5
Subtotal, B                                104.6         36.0         140.6
C.  Strengthening Management, Education
and Research
1.  Construction                                  8.6           -           8.6
2.  Equipment                                     5.4          2.9          8.3
3.  Training                                      0.8          2.6          3.4
4.  Technical Assistance                           -           2.0          2.0
Subtotal, C                                  14.8          7.5         22.3
Total Baseline Costs                       174.4          68.7        243.1
Physical Contingencies                           15.8          5.4         21.2
Price Contingencies                              19.5          6.7         26.2
Total Project Costs a!                     209.7          80.8        290.5
Charge on Use of Foreign Capital                 32.3           -          32.3
Total Financing required                   242.0         80.8         322.8
Financing Plan:
IDA                                               4.2         80.8         85.0
Government                                      237.8           -         237.8
Total                                           242.0         80.8        322.8
a/  Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY          1985    1986       1987   1988    1989   1990
Annual          15.5    28.5       22.5   12.5       4.5    1.5
Cummulative    15.5    44.0        66.5   79.0    83.5   85.0
I
Rate of Return:    NA
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4864-CHA, dated April 13, 1984



I
a



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a rural health and
medical education project. The IDA credit, for SDR 80,200,000 ($85.0 million
equivalent), would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic
mission is now in the field. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Re-volution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average or other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low-income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. Tle economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-



- 2 -
ment in 1979.  Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) improving the quality of central planning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumption and investment in national income, some major sectoral and
subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade. In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households.  A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization with-in ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way.  Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
S.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred.  Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.



- 3 -
9.         Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic ser-vices, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, si nce substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport sysltems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.        During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.        These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.        Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the real
increase in per capita incoraes was about 12% p.a. While more prosperous areas
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, maany poor areas and households have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.
13.        The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program.  But achievinig such a cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth in



--4 -
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. ks a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally financed
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from aLbout 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports. The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. A substantial :increase in imports is
expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands its investment program and imports
more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by thet end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were nearly $15 billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be heLped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through economic reforra. Rapid and equitable economic
development is constrained by a number of factors, however.  There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current- enrollment in universities and
technical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the
cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capacity constraints iin the transport and commercial



- 5 -
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time
when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been gvowill,m rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agri-
cultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The cormmercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units were economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. Hlowever, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to
market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development
will be particularly heavy. By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate



- 6 -
of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs. For
example, an acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, cou:Ld result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7% p.a, during the rest of lhe 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.        China also has a strong claim to 20oncessionary lending because it is
still one of the poorer countries in the world.  However, access to                               J
concessionary capital to finance its development and modernization program is
limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s.
22.        For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China'sflarge
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less con-
cerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the effi-
ciency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substantial
increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this potential can
be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of the Governmen-t's
program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERkTIONc IN CHINA
23.        In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now under way, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its
considerable development experience and institutional knowledge.   Moreover,
working with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its
position in the world community after lts lengthy isolation.  Secondly, the
Bank should assist China in removing the major constraints on development:
shortages of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern
technology. Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use
these and other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and
investment control, as well as overal:L economic management and planning.
Finally, the Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's
remaining poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the
basic needs of most of its people, these effcrts should concentrate on the
poorest rural areas.



-7-
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 13 projects involving lending of about $1,434 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), three in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation and Rubber Development), two in transport (Three Ports and
Railway), one in industry (Industrial Credit), and one in technical
cooperation (Technical Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary
statement on these loans and credits as of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981.. A follow-up country economic memorandum (Report
No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the Bank has
undertaken studies in severa:L areas important for our understanding of the
Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. The economic mission now visiting China will prepare a report on
long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been developed with
Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment
Bank. The Bank is now helping the Agricultural Bank of China to develop a
similar manual in connection with the proposed project. A program of economic
research on China's development problems, aimed at the application of advanced
analytical techniques, is under way in collaboration with Chinese economic
research institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of
structural change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, agricultural manpower
and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project, and a
rural finance study for the Rural Credit Project. A health sector review is
being circulated separately.
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first two, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies. Other operations are likely to



- 8 -
continue support for electric power and involve development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work is
proceeding on a second railway project and a second port project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through a second
agricultural education project and another iniversity development project.
Support for agriculture would continue through projects to provide further
assistance in agricultural research, and to assist the Governmert in Eorestry
and seeds. In industry, further loans will be made to the Chin- Investment
Bank, and there will be projects for technical renovation and modernization in
industries such as fertilizers and machine tools.  In health, the proposed
project will help improve rural health care services and medical education.
Bank assistance is also planned for a rural water supply project.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Introduction
30.       China has made remarkable progress since the early 1950s in improv-
ing the overall health status of her population. Factors contributing to this
achievement - a multi-sector approach to defining health policies and an
effective health delivery system - have influenced the thinking of health
professionals throughout the developing world. Yiet, not surprisingly, given
the country's vast size and population, now recorded at 1,008 million, success
has been uneven: while health conditions in most u-rban and in some rural areas
are quite satisfactory by any reasonable standard, those in many rural areas
are not. Moreover, China is currently undergoing changes in the social,
economic and epidemiological profile of the entire population that will place
new demands on the health system. Major challenges for the health sector in
the 1980s and beyond are twofold: (a) to maintain and extend gains already
achieved in delivering basic health care services to China's rural population
of over 800 million; and (b) to develop the capacity for efficient management
of the health system and development of appropriale, cost-effective strategies
for emerging health problems.
Health
31.       Although few good data exist for the early 1950s, it is evident that
health conditions in China have improved enormously. Life expectancy at birth
is estimated at 64 years in 1975-80, compared with 34 years in 1950-55; infant
mortality is estimated to have been 65 per thousand live births in 1975-80
compared with 235 in 1950-55. However, these national averages mask wide
variations, with life expectancy higher in the more heavily populated and
advanced northeastern provinces and coastal areas than in inland and border
1/   Separately available is Report No. 4664-CHA, "The Health Sector in
China," April 13, 1984.



- 9 -
regions.  In the mid-1970s, life expectancy in urban areas probably exceeded
that in rural areas by 12-17 years.
32.       Concerning overall trends in mortality and morbidity, many once
important communicable diseases such as smallpox, cholera, plague and Kala
Azar have been virtually eradicated; diphtheria and poliomyelitis have been
almcst eliminated; and the incidence of other infective and parasitic disease
has been reduced and controlled. However, continuing deficiencies in hygiene
and human waste treatment are indicated by the persistence of diseases such as
hepatitis and dysentery. Malaria and schistosomiasis remain problems and
their continued control is a public health priority. Tuberculosis, the main
a        cause of death in 1949, still affects nearly 1% of the population and remains
a major problem. Chronic bronchitis is reported in 3.5% of the population,
reflecting problems of smoking and air pollution. Both because of increasing
prevalence of dietary and behavioral patterns leading to chronic disease and
because of an inevitable aging of the population, morbidity and mortality due
to chronic disease can be expected to become much more frequent, and, indeed,
stroke, heart diseases and cancer are now the leading causes of death.
Health Policies and Programs
33.       China's success in improving the health status of her people is
attributable to the following factors: First, more than most low-income
countries, China has emphasized preventive over curative services. Major
efforts were mounted after 1949 to improve environmental sanitation, vaccinate
against and cure infectious diseases, and to control the vectors of the main
parasitic diseases. Second, China pioneered the development of community-
financed auxiliary health workers - subsequently known as barefoot doctors -
as the only practicable means at hand, given the lack of financial resources,
to provide basic curative services in the rural areas. Third, China since
1949 has made available a substantial volume of financial resources - the
present figure is over 3% of GDP - for health care, particularly in poor
areas. Fourth, China's policies have always reached well beyond the health
system itself, with improved nutrition, water supply and sanitation, education
and reduced fertility being related and independently important policy
goals. Finally, Chinese health policy appears to have combined successfully a
specific emphasis on categorical (or vertical) disease prevention programs
with coordinated administration and implementation through commune- and
county-level service delivery systems, thereby achieving a functional integra-
tion of policy and practice. Current health policy places continued emphasis
on strengthening preventive services and upgrading the rural health delivery
system. Medium-term goals also include integrating Chinese and Western health
care methods, supporting family planning services, improving the training of
health service professionals, strengthening management efficiency and develop-
ing production and distribution standards for pharmaceuticals. To carry out
these goals the Government has defined major programs to (a) upgrade the
health facilities of China's 2,100 counties; and (b) improve the quality of
medical education and research.
34.       Rural Health.  The care oE China's health care services is the rural
collective health system, which is organized on three levels: the county, the
commune and the brigade. At the apex are approximately 2,100 counties each



- 10 -
typically having four health care institutions: a county hospital, a sanita-
tion and epidemic prevention station, a maternal and child health (MCH)
clinic, and a health personnel training center. County facilities are funded
by the Government through the province and county health bureaus. Below these
are health centers at the commune level: in 1981, some 55,000 or 90% of all
communes had such centers. Likewise, almost all of the approximately 715,C0O
brigades have a health station with one or two barefoot doctors.
35.       Most county-level health facilities are Limited in their effective-
ness by the following weaknesses: (a) insufficient basic laboratory,
diagnostic and therapeutic equipment; (b) low level of utilization of
appropriate standard procedures for laboratory anad patient management and for
pharmaceutical utilization; (c) inadequate emphasis on prevention of cancer
and cardiovascular disease; (d) inadequate capacity to extend health care
services to remote segments of the rural population; (e) lack of opportunities
for training and retraining staff; and (f) inadequate county-level statistical
and disease surveillance capacity. The major foci of the Government's county
upgrading programs are to strengthen the four county-level health institutions
and to assist in strengthening selected cormune health centers. These "major
commune health centers" are intended to become an intermediate level of refer-
ral between regular commune health centers and county hospitals; by making
them competent to handle moderately complicated cases, access to quality
health care would become much more widely distributed and accessible in rural
areas than it now is.
36.       Medical Education.  Thirteen "core" medical colleges are directly
administered by the Ministry of Public HealLth (MOP'H).  This includes the
country's six key medical colleges as well as two colleges of traditional
Chinese medicine. The MOPH estimates that the number of doctors (both Western
and traditional) is currently 0.8 per 1,003 poptLlation, and that this ratio
can be maintained during the 1980s without increasing medical college
enrollment beyond what will result from the currenit level of about 30,000 new
admissions each year. Meeting the MOPH-approved target of 1 doctor per
thousand population would require increasing medical college output by 12,000
per year to over 40,000 or increasing the rate of upgrading of assistant
doctors.  An output of 40,000 would be roughly consistent with the target in
the Sixth Plan (1981-85) to increase the total number of doctors by 180,000
during the Plan period.
37.       Though China's medical colleges have begun to recover from the
massive disruptions of the Cultural Revolution, they are still hampered in
their efforts to respond to the national need for well-qualified medical
personnel by: (a) poorly qualified staff: many teaching staff have no post-
graduate education and their undergraduate training is now outdated; (b)
inadequate equipment: teaching laboratories are under-equipped and often lack
any up-to-date equipment, computational facilities are weak or non-existent,
and libraries need strengthening; (c) curriculum weakness: the medical content
of the curriculum often fails to provide adequate treatment of subjects that
have advanced rapidly in recent years (e.g. virology, epidemiology and immuno-
logy), and other relevant subjects such as management, health economics, and
behavioral sciences are lacking; (d) weakness in instruction: teaching methods
are often highly didactic with little scope for active student involvement or



- 11 -
individual initiative and, frequently, there is an inadequate supply of
teaching aids; and (e) out-of-date examination and certification systems. The
MOPH will give priority in the 1980s to improving the quality of education and
research, retraining the large numiber of doctors who graduated during the
Cultural Revolution, and the building up of teaching and research staff
through postgraduate training. Some quantitative expansion of high-level
manpower is envisioned, but the numbers involved are relatively limited. An
important objective of the MOPH is to reduce the emphasis on factual learning
in the curriculum and to strengthen the teaching of scientific and epi-
demiological concepts and their application in problem-solving. This is to be
done both through the development of appropriate teaching materials and
through the structure of the examination system.
Health Finances
38.       China is now spending an estimated 3.3% of GDP on health services
(1981), which is relatively high compared with other low-income countries. In
1981, total health expenditures were estimated at $7.50 per capita, of which
about $7.15 (95%) was for recurrent and $0.35 for capital expenditures. A
high proportion of total health expenditure is mediated through insurance
(labor and rural collective) schemes of various kinds, with perhaps only a
third of the population, almost all in rural areas, uninsured. Urban expendi-
ture is estimated at about $16.50 per capita, more than twice the national
average and almost four times the estimated $4.50 per capita rural expendi-
ture.  Government subsidies inl urban areas are estimated to be almost ten
times those for rural areas due to operation of various civil service and
state enterprise insurance schemes. In rural areas, cooperative insurance
schemes provide limited pooling of risk within production brigades, but, since
these schemes are entirely financedl out of whatever local resources are
available, there is no scope for redistributive subsidies from richer to
poorer communities. Moreover, early evidence suggests that the economic
responsibility system has affected in some provinces the collective insurance
and labor mobilization schemes that have hitherto financed the preventive
activities, including indirectly the costs of the barefoot doctors.
Sector Issues and Bank Objectives
39.       China's health sector now faces two priority issues: (a) that of how
to maintain the gains already made in large parts of the country, to extend
them to presently underserved areas, and to strengthen the basic health infra-
structure; and (b) that of how to identify and implement affordable strategies
for dealing with chronic diseases that combine prevention, cost-effective
treatment, rehabilitation and humane care. The first of these issues, given
high priority by the MOPH, concerns mainly the future development, including
the financing, of the rural health care delivery system. Development of rural
health services faces challenges of effective transfer of technology and
procedures from abroad, of identifying and institutionalizing affordable
approaches to a new range of preventive and curative services, and of
developing appropriate insurance mechanisms. The second set of issues raises
a new and complicated set of problems for MOPH. Prevention of chronic
diseases is far more difficult and costly than is prevention of communicable
disease, and the approaches developed for curative care in industrialized



- 12 -
countries have costs that are simply unaffordable in a country at the level of
income China can expect to attain in the next few decades. A high premium
must therefore be placed on strengthening the capacity for the system to
develop innovative strategies for handling the emerging pattern of diseases
and for strengthening the capacity for evaluation of program impact against
costs. Initial steps in this direction inc:Lude strengthening the institutions
that have key analytic roles in the health care system, including importantly,
the leading medical colleges.
40.       The objectives of Bank involvement are to assist China's MOPH in
addressing these issues.  This will be done through long-term strengthening of
national health institutions - e.g. the core medical colleges - and the
quality of planning, monitoring and analytic capacities, and through helping
to develop and finance model efforts to improve the management and efficiency
of health services and their accessibility to the population. The project
proposed by the government and appraised by IDA :Ls intended as a first, modest
step towards addressing these priorities; possibLe future projects are
expected to continue this process.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       The proposed project was prepared jointly by the MOPH and three
multi-disciplinary IDA project preparation teams in March, April and
June 1983.  Project appraisal took place in September 1983.  Negotiations were
held in Washington in March 1984 with a Chinese delegation led by Ms. Zhao
Bingru, Deputy Director, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4864-CHA) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Objectives
42.       The project is intended as a first, modest step in addressing three
priority areas selected by the Government for irLitial IDA assistance: expand-
ing delivery of basic health care services, training high level health man-
power, and strengthening the national capability for health system management
and evaluation. The project would provide funds for civil works, furniture,
equipment, technical assistance and fellowships to help:
A.   improve health status in 46 counties of three provinces
(Heilongjiang, Shandong and Sichuan) and one autonomous region
(Ningxia Hui);
B.   enhance the quality of educatior, training and related research in
the country's 13 core medical colleges and to increase these
colleges' capacity to provide continuing education and training
materials to practitioners and to faculty of the over 100 province-
level medical colleges; and
C.   strengthen management, evaluation and research in the health sector
by support for two recently created national institutions - the



- 13 -
National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM) and the Research
Center for Health Planning and Statistics (RCHPS) - and for applied
research at the Sichuan Institute for Chinese Materia Medica, as
well as for project; implementation and preparation.
Components
43.       Rural Health.  (Proposed total outlay $91.0 million, including con-
tingencies).  The objective of this component would be to upgrade the quality
of health care provided at county level and below in Heilongjiang, Shandong
and Sichuan Provinces and in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region and to strengthen
management of the four province/region-level Health Bureaus for future county-
level activities. The three provinces and autonomous region selected for
inclusion in the project are together broadly representative of the diverse
economic, social, demographic and health conditions in China. Counties were
selected within the provinces in order to be geographically and economically
representative and on the basis of their willingness to generate resources of
their own to help finance the project.
44.       The project will support the rehabilitation, extension and upgrading
of existing debilitated facilities in the county hospitals, maternal and child
health centers, sanitation and epidemic prevention stations, and training
centers, and will assist in new construction where sufficient facilities do
not yet exist. In a majority of counties, the project will support the
construction of selected major commune health centers; in a few, it will
support rehabilitation of such centers. Construction represents about 46% of
the total cost of the rural health component. The construction and renovation
of the health facilities will be accompanied by the upgrading of existing
diagnostic and therapeutic tools as well as teaching aids in the country
training centers. The equipment will be for strengthening the following
areas: laboratories, clinical diagnosis, cold chain refrigeration, x-ray
facilities, operating rooms, training facilities, therapeutics, and
vehicles. About 30% of the cfDst of the component will be allocated to this
category.
45.       To improve health facilities staff, the project will support pre-
service training and in-service training covering: (a) management, primarily
for doctors; (b) upgrading of professional skills, such as improved clinical
practices for doctors and other health workers; and (c) initial training of
primary health workers. About 6% of total component costs will be allocated
to this category.  Trainers and consultants from the prefectural or provincial
levels will be needed to provide assistance in the design of in-service
training in specific technical skills. Technical assistance will be locally
recruited. Five percent of expenditures will be allocated to initial
training, housing, office space and supplies associated with recruitment, in
accordance with Chinese Government regulations, of additional personnel in the
areas of medical staff (doctors and nurses), laboratory technicians,
administrators and trainers.
46.       Each provincial investment and implementation plan includes a small
province-level management component designed to strengthen the four Provincial
Health Bureaus' leadership functions and responsibilities vis-a-vis the



-- lb4 -
counties in three main areas: health manpower training and retraining; health
statistics and management information; and maintenance and repair of medical
equipment.  Individual county implementation plans, prepared and aggregated by
the Provincial Health Bureaus in accordance with st:atistical and reporting
formats agreed with IDA, would provide a satisfactory basis for supervising
the progress of project implementationl in the four provinces, the MOPH and,
indirectly, by IDA. Procedures and parameters for monitoring and evaluating
project results were discussed and developed during a post-appraisal mission
by the four Provincial Health Bureaus, in consultation with the MOPH and IDA.
47.       Medical Education.  (Proposed outlay $172.9 million, including
contingencies.) The objective of this component is to support strengthening
of the teaching programs and closely related research at the 13 "core" medical
colleges that are directly administered under the MOPH. The project's
emphasis is to improve the quality and the outreach of basic teaching programs
at the colleges. Quality improvements are to be effected in two separate
ways: First, by compensating for the lost years of the Cultural Revolution
through programs of facilities expansion, equipment modernization, staff
upgrading and improved teaching methods and materials; and second, by exten-
ding the range of course offerings to include recent developments from else-
where in the world that are relevant to the Chinese health sector in coming
years - e.g., preventive strategies for chronic diseases, modern methods in
epidemiology, and health management and economics. The outreach capacity of
the medical colleges will be strengthened through enhancing their capacity to
both provide continuing education to clinicians and health officials in the
province where the college is located and assist other medical colleges by
providing advanced training for their faculty and by providing them with
improved teaching materials.
48.       These tasks will be undertaken by support of three new activities in
each college. The first activity consists of five "general" program areas for
upgrading in each college; the second consists of " special" program areas that
will be upgraded in one or more of the participating colleges; and the third
consists of a number of "national centers," each of which will be administered
by a particular college but will potentially serve all the medical colleges in
the country or substantial geographical region. The general program areas,
which will be part of each college's program, are the following:
(a)  General Program Area 1    Strengthenin,g teaching and learning re-
sources in the college through upgrading
of staff, equaipping of basic teaching
laboratories, strengthening of libraries,
and provision of basic computational fa-
cilities.
(b)  General Program Area 2    D)evelopment and teaching of preventive
strategies for chronic disease.
(c)  General Program Area 3    Strengthening teaching of epidemiology and
program evaluation.



- 15 -
(d)  General Program Area 4    Strengthening teaching of health
management and economics.
(e)  General Program Area 5    Provision of continuing medical education
to local clinicians and health officials.
49.       For each of the activities - general and specific program areas, and
national centers - improvemenl:s will be effected through staff development (by
fellowships within China and abroad); through acquisition of laboratory
equipment and, for each college, small- to medium-size computer facilities;
through renovation and constructiona of classroom and laboratory space; and
through technical assistance from within China and abroad.  Assurances have
been obtained that the Govermnent would improve the quality and extent of
teaching programs at the medical colleges in accordance with criteria accept-
able to the Association (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
Understandings were reached at negotiations on the criteria to be applied.
50.       Strengthening Management, Evaluation and Research at the National
Level. (Proposed outlay $26.6 million, including contingencies). This compo-
nent consists of four activities designed to improve management, evaluation,
and research capability relevant to improving health system efficiency.
A.   National Center for Preventive Medicine (NCPM).  The NCPM, created
in August 1983, is composed of a newly established core staff and
five previously existing institutions: the Institute of Viral
Diseases, the Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, the Insti-
tute of Parasitic Diseases, the Institute of Health, and the Labora-
tory of Industrial Hygiene. The project would assist these institu-
tions to redirect and expand their efforts from a primary concern
with basic and applied research to a broader range of responsibili-
ties for public health and preventive medicine.
B.   Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics (RCHPS).  The
RCHPS, established in 1982 within the MOPH's Bureau of Planning and
Finance, has been given responsibility for carrying out health
policy analysis and research and for servicing the MOPH's overall
data collection and processing needs; this project subcomponent will
assist the RCHPS in developing this capacity.
C.   Sichuan Institute of Chinese Materia Medica (SICMM).  SICMM is one
of China's leading institutions for study of traditional herbal
medicine. The project will strengthen SICMM by provision of fellow-
ships and training opportunities for its staff, by provision of
priority items of equipment for its research program, and by
construction and renovation of laboratory facilities.
D.   Project Implementation and Preparation.  This component of the
project would provide resources for future project preparation and
would assist three entities within MOPH - the Advanced Medical
Education Division, the Rural Health Division and the World Bank
Loan Office (WBLO) - in developing their capacity for project
planning and management. To help in project preparation, the



- 16 -
project would support a health manpower study. The WBLO would be
responsible for ensuring that this study is conducted and that
appropriate input to it is received from line bureaus of MOPH.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would carry out this
study by June 30, 1986 under terms of reference determined after
consultation with IDA and furnish a copy of such study to IDA for
its review and comments (Draft Developrient Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.06). The Division of Advanced Miedical Education would be
responsible for organizing workshops of interest to all partici-
pating medical colleges, for strengthening the national medical
examination system, for organizing intensive foreign language
training for fellows to be sent abroad and for conducting an evalua-
tion of project implementation in the L3 colleges; the project would
provide resources for technical assistance in these tasks and equip-
ment for automated examination scoring.
Technical Assistance and Overseas Fellowships
51.       Selection of technical assistance consultants and of candidates for
overseas fellowships and other training would be carried out in accordance
with criteria and following procedures agreed upon mutually by the MOPH and
IDA. Given the large number of individual overseas fellowships (about 425
equivalent to about 256 staff-years), the MOPH (specifically the Advanced
Medical Education Division and WBLO) would propose appropriate procedures for
the administration of fellowships at the overseas training institutions
concerned. Understandings between MOPH and IDA on the program, criteria and
procedures for fellowship selection and administration, and on the
implementation of technical assistanc(e were reached at negotiations.
Management and Implementation
52.       Management.  The main responsibility for project management would
rest with the WBLO already establishedl to coordirnate project preparation. The
WBLO would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of all project
components, procurement of equipment, administration of technical assistance
and training, project finances including counterpart funding and credit
disbursement and overall project progress reports. To this end, it would have
a strong liaison function with four teschnical divisions within the MOPH
responsible for the project components/subcomponetnts. It would also act as
staff secretariat for a "Leading Groulp" or steering committee within the MOPH
charged with policy formation and oversight responsibility for the project.
Detailed terms of reference for the WBLO and job descriptions for key staff
are under preparation and were confinred at negotiations. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the borrower would maintain the
WBLO as agreed throughout the project implementation period with appropriate
functions and staffing (Draft Development C-redit Agreement, Section 3.09).  To
coordinate implementation of the rural health component, special WBLO's would
be formed within the four provincial health bureaus concerned. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the respective provinces would main-
tain the WBLOs throughout the project implementation period with appropriate
functions and staffing (Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08).



- 17 -
53.        Implementation.  The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1989 with a closing date of December 31, 1989. Procurement of equipment, the
main element of Bank financing, is expected to start shortly. Preliminary
work is well advanced, equipment lists are being finalized and bidding
documents are being prepared for IDA review.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The estimated total cost of the project is Y 645.6 million or
US$322.8 million equivalent, net o:' duties and taxes, and including charges on
the use of foreign capital. The foreign exchange cost would be US$80.8 mil-
lion (25% of the total).  Base costs refer to mid-1983 prices.  Construction
costs for medical colleges are based on estimated areas and unit costs
provided by the Government for the various types of buildings required.
Equipment lists were provided in February 1984. Foreign consultants (about
525 man-months) are estimated to cost US$10,000 per consultant-month for the
first month and US$6,000 for any subsequent months, averaging about US$6,300
per consultant-month (including travel and subsistence). Overseas fellowships
and study tours, varying in duration from one month to 48 months, are
estimated to cost on average US$1,800 per staff-month. Physical contingencies
equal 10% on buildings and equipment. Price contingencies are based on the
following expected rates of increase for both international and domestic
(expressed in US dollars) prices: 1984: 7.5%; 1985: 7.0%; 1986 through 1988:
6%. The project's foreign exchange component of $80.8 million has been cal-
culated as follows: (a) civiL works - 0%; (b) equipment and vehicles - 57%;
(c) training - 44%; (d) technical assistance - 78%; and (e) personnel recruit-
ment - 0%.
55.       The proposed IDA credit of US$85 million would finance 26% of total
project costs, including all the US$80.8 million foreign costs plus
US$4.2 million or 1.7% of total local costs. Financing of local costs would
apply only to the rural health component and is justified on project grounds
because the local counterpart contribution would be provided by province,
county and commune level institutions and also to make a reasonably signifi-
cant IDA contribution (about one third) to the cost of this part of the
project. The proceeds of the IDA credit allocated for the rural health
component would be made avaiLlable to the provinces of Heilongjiang, Shandong,
Sichuan and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, and those for Sichuan Institute for
Chinese Materia Medica to the province of Sichuan, under procedures and terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (Draft Development Credit Agreement 3.02).
Recurrent Costs
r         56.        It is estimated that the rural health component of the project would
increase recurrent outlays on rural health in the 46 participating counties by
about US$4.4 million equivalent commencing in 1987, or an average of about
US$95,000 per county. This represents about 8% of total recurrent health
expenditures in 1982 and about 6% of projected total recurrent health expendi-
tures in the participating counties in 1986/7. As for the medical education
component, the investments proposed will not directly increase enrollments at
the 13 medical colleges. The incremental recurrent expenditures generated by
the project are thus expected to be minimal, mainly the operation and main-
tenance of new equipment.



- 18 -
Table 1: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ millions)
Procurement l4ethod                 Total
Project element                ICB         LCB       Other        N.A.       Cost
Civil works                      -          -         1]41.0/a      -        141.0
Equipment and vehicles         60.4         -          54.8/a       -        115.2
(60.4)                  (5.0)                  (65.4)
Training                         -          -          20.4         -         20.4
(12.6)                 (12.6)
Technical assistance             -          -           9.0         -          9.0
(7.0)                  (7.0)
Personnel recruitment            -          -            -         4.9         4.9
Total Project Cost          60.4         -        225.2         4.9       290.5
(60.4)                 (24.6)                  (85.0)
Charge on Use of
Foreign Capital                                                             32.3
Total Financing
required                60.4          -        225.2        4.9       322.8
(60.4)                 (24.6)                  (85.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respec tive amounts financed by IDA.
/a   For these elements, "other" is defined as the procurement practices and
procedures followed by the Chinese Government.
Procurement
57.        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 1.  All civil works
under the proposed project would be procured following the Government's local
procedures and financed from its own resources. Plans and designs drawn up by
provincial, county and city design bureaus or colLege authorities and the
Government's procedures for construction and construction supervision have
been reviewed and are considered satisfactory.  Equipment would be procured in
three phases spread over 3 1/2-4 years; about 45% of all equipment is expected
to be procured during the first phase (1984/85). The MOPH would be respon-
sible for taking delivery of equipment and for its distribution to project
institutions. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower
would ensure that the facilities required for the installation of equipment
and the personnel needed to operate and maintain it would be available prior
to the installation of the equipment financed by :[DA (Draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.10 and Project Agreement Sect:ion 2.07).



- 19 -
58.       Procurement procedures have been developed in accordance with
estimated sources of supply. One category, about 47% of the total, comprises
basic laboratory equipment, pharmaceutical and laboratory materials and
standard teaching supplies all of which are available locally. This equipment
would be procured in China in accordance with local procedures and financed by
the government. The second category of equipment, 53% of the total, comprises
relatively sophisticated items that are mostly unavailable locally. This
would be procured on the basis of ICB procedures following IDA guidelines and
financed out of the proposed credit.  IDA-financed items would be grouped into
bid packages to the extent possible to encourage competition and bulk procure-
ment. Each invitation to bid or bid package exceeding an estimated cost of
US$150,000 equivalent would be subject to ICB procedures.  Local manufacturers
would be permitted to participate and eligible for a margin of preference of
15% or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of
bids. Items and groups of items estimated to cost less than $150,000 and in
aggregate not exceeding US$5.0 million equivalent may be procured through: (a)
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation of bids invited
from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines; or (b)
direct purchase for proprietary items or where justified by the need for stan-
dardization. The US$5.0 million limit was calculated on the basis of items
needed for the project. Prior IDA review of contract awards would exclude
contracts of less than $150,000 equivalent, estimated to cover less than 8% of
the total value of all contracts. Sample post reviews of these contracts
would be carried out during regular supervision missions.
Disbursement
59.       The proposed credit of SDR 80,200,000 million (US$85 million equi-
valent) would be disbursed on the basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign cost of
imported equipment or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment; (b) 100% of the foreign cost of consultants; (c) 100% of the cost
of overseas fellowships and training; and (d) 100% of local training costs -
tuition, transportation and room and board - of Part A (Rural Health) for
Heilongjiang and Sichuan Provinces, and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region.
Reimbursement of the costs of overseas fellowships and training under Parts B
and C and local training costs under Part A (Rural Health) would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the supporting documentation for
which would be retained in the WBLO in MOPH for review by IDA during project
supervision missions.
60.       In order to reduce the administrative burden on the government and
IDA of disbursing against a large number of applications for equipment,
foreign technical assistance and overseas training, MOPH would open a special
account at the Bank of China, with an initial deposit of up to the U.S. dollar
equivalent of SDR 1.9 million, the amount needed to cover about 120 days of
greatest disbursement activity. MOPH would periodically send statements of
disbursements made from this revolving fund with appropriate supporting
documentation to IDA, which would then replenish the revolving fund. The
establishment of the special account would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Draft Development Credit Agreement 6.01).



- 20 -
Accounts and Audits
61.       Accounts for the medical education and management components of the
project would be maintained by the central WBLO and for rural health by the
provincial WBLOs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that project
accounts would be maintained according to accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to the Association; that annual audits of project expenditures
would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
and that the Government would provide the Association with certified copies of
such audited financial statements and the auditors' reports thereon within six
months after the close of each Chinese fiscal year. Initially the Ministry of
Finance will issue Audit Reports in accordance with methods and procedures
acceptable to the Bank until the New State Audit Agency (SAA) is in a position
to issue acceptable audit reports.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The project is expected to yield three main benefits: (a) improved
efficiency in controlling communicable diseases, in managing selected chronic
diseases, and in provision of competent basic curative care both in the county
town and at intermediate referral locations; (b) better quality medical
training both in the medical colleges and in continuing education programs;
and (c) an improved statistical and analytical base from which to deal with
emerging health sector problems. The main project risk is that the MOPH staff
may lack the necessary management skills and breadth of experience to carry
through proposed changes in medical education and training and proposed crea-
tion of new institutional capabilities. This risk is reduced in the project
by inclusion of substantial technical assistance and overseas training, by
provision for careful selection of key project staff, and by establishment of
a project monitoring and reporting system that should allow prompt identifica-
tion of potential problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association; the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Heilongjiang, Shandong and Sichuan Provinces, and Ningxia Hui
Autonomous Region; and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would
be: that the Special Account shall have been opened in accordance with the
provisions of Development Credit Agreement Section 2.02(b); and that the
Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Development Credit and the
Project Agreement (1evelopment Credilt Agreement, Section 6.01).
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.



- 21 -
66.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 19, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST'                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT                L OW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
196G-1-b     1970-  ESTIMATE-             ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EN)
TOTAL                                  9561.0        9561.0       9561.0
AGRICUITURAL                           3176.3        3213.0       3182.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         40.0/c       90.0         200.0                276.7                        1028.6
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          340.0         427.0        618.0                 398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATTSTICS**
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            18.4/d          ..         20.6                  21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2040
POPLTATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            71.5          87.7        102.5                 161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND                215.2        261.1         207.8                363.1                        1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-14 YRS                              38.9          37.7         32.2                  36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                              56.3          57.2         62.4                  59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                            4.8           5.1          5.4                   4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                   1.7           2.1          1.5                   1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                     ..           ..            ..                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             38.9/e        34.1         20.9                  29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             23.7/e         9.8           7.8                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8/e         2.6           1.4                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                 ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..            ..         74.0/f               48.1                          46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                               . .       100.0        '.17.0                1 11.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)           78.8/e        88.7        :07.0                  98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               49.4/e       53.0          65.0                 56.7                          57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                .          12.7         15.0                  13.9                         14.1
CHTLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE**            26.1/e        10.7           7.2                 12.2                           7.6
HEA.LTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)**          40.5/g        57.9          67.2                 59.6                          60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)**         165.07e        90.0         71.0                  96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE wATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..            ..                 32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    ..            ..            ..                 70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                     ..           ..            .                  22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..            ..                 18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..            ..            ..                 72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                     ..           ..            ..                  4.7                         33.4
POPUJLATION PER PHYSICLIN              8330.0/h    3800.0/h       1920.0/h             3506.0                        7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                4020.0        2840.0       1890.0                4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1040.0         760.0        490.0                1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                 210.0            ..        160.0                 298.4                        651.1
RURAL                               10140.0            ..       1010.0                5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISS'ONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..            ..            ..                   ..                         27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..           ..          5.2
URBAN                                     ..           ..          4.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..          5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
IURBAN                                   ..            ..            ..                   .
RURAL                                     ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Y OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _    _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



- 23 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLEVS REP. OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960lb      197lb  RECENT  /b            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE fNCCEE
1960-  1971    ESTIMATE~-         ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION* * *
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    109.0       110.0        117.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                       ..           ..       126.0               107.8                      106.0
FEMALE                     ..           ..       106.0                82.9                       97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0        34.0                 30.2                       44.9
MALE .F                                 ..        40.0                37.3                       50.0
FEMALE                     ..           ..        27.0                22.2                       44.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECON'DARY)             ..          ..          2.2                 2.3                       18.5
V/              PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..          ..         26.0                34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                              ..          ..         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               43.0/d         ..         69.0/i              53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPTIO N
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..           ..                 1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..          ..        150.6                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..          ..         15.8                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          ..           ..                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..           ..                 3.6                        3.4
LABOR FORCE****
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         319589.0/j  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.3         38.0        37.2                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..           ..         68.9                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ,,           ..        18.7                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.8/i       45.0         46.7                42.5                       38.6
MALE                                55.9/j       54.5         57.0                54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                              37. 073      35.0         35.9               29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9/5        1.0          0.8                 1.0                        1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..         12.5/k              16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..         39.37k             43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..          6.8Tk               6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..         18.4/k              17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..              111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                 ..                       178.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                ..                        164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                51.7                       41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APFLICAELE
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among -he
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964; /e 1955-65 average; If Percentage of women of reproductive age; /g 1955-64
average; lb Senior doctor of western medicine; /i 1982; /j 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita income.
** All population and vital statistics are Bank estimates which differ from Chinese official statistics.
*** Formal education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
*    Definition and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



-24 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DFtlINITIOS OF SOCIAL ltSiCATRSt
nones   Alh-hogh the  soae droen tes   oce  geerll  jodged the s-s  -ceh-1-t"   n   eisl'   ttoi  as   entdtatte   a   o   e-n ntnoi
coeareInIeaF       eo  tei        fstnadzddfitIon  and cocPts need by differn-                   coine-I n letting  he dat.Thedaasenontie,nefio
desorihe orders of segninode, indicate treods, otd thrstonrl en centain sajoc difteceniet heiseecnonnteiee
Thnfren    ttcaeilbsseoonyrnIthehntntiyadlo    ctnygopdttonttoh-o-ao   ontnaceoo-ydopfh
sob] ot nostey  eonep  for 55gb   onnetOil tportet" gtdpshee  'Midle Itone  otth   trno  nd tidle  hst'-Ib-hnen --nnon o  stroger-scin-nlSsrn
offlitte)   Sn  he  efeent  groy dta  he  neraes  re  opontio  seghtd nlttst S  sets  on tnS  ndioto  en: shan  nlyaleconin t nfthnifft-etIth
geo  hsdssfo   hn  ninne    inete  oeng  o   ootit  sngSe  o  coos  eensontean  is  1  ycidt  ndisnt  tt r,cotsohnsnh
e,-Piodin fiett    ane igesfh I  ninonaohe. Teeaoseacoloeotcsanoteoh:fteniaonnienoghcocy
getf Iihoasso  tnN-h.                                                                                                        M.-folatio-dinde  h   noenfdncicn
1970ned1991dat.                                                                          tcooin   nt..t.l ennt-yonlt oRdid_db  nnhcIfprthcf o
19ff aed 1930 data.                                                         topointics~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   h ~-- ceedsi--l -rd h- totl,y oh_n   j.nd, coaIf nnoto    ti
g,.dp h.. d-   --g-   i.di--   Iddlh_                     i-di--              on,andentil  ooitd  y  heidcepedinenosenhf hspial jed
191,19d  and80 8 d- s.                                                                          yanlendoephc lt. Eta lsnet  cbydltpinipll  otdm
snd gntheral elotr-inyf it   kilogeeofcah..       nlettn  acs                                pnodeo.e.teIF.nI.ofnedifl fciliies,  toe stntb-c    prpsf
-di.315  g  MotIoITCSSeiled   optl.                                                                                   n  incodP        nl  odn  total.         1   -
foti  erlato.  idfer (bnsnds  -anofloy I  165  111  ad  99                       adfsioe  ntScplc. Be  -Toalonahr  f  deleiotcot  lshage
dens.                                                                   fcot~~~~~~r,,l b.sptn_ die--tnbtoheo   nos
EKERG Ot SUMPTIyONPERtn                                                                             -    oseodtotetIoTAgnyofld -dolnb   hnelnn  qaet
toaI     opltin  yoean   e   odternotlt  sod fe ilt                                              I  hceo,,h cn eis  tro
esee    nnetinatotesSostrltyatsoersefhrenItfeshecPe_ntncne-onInha.tdaalnnaI                                                                                   ome
leneessnoiollfsopetsnynthnthncnsnitsftcocney'pee                            f ptnoO  pernonfnalnron,sdtnalncoctdnonetnona
caiId      cs  lnt,ndfnaelf   oetet   stleiga   75delig    sycnmly _ealntecoe  o-esnn   otnoe   o
years.The peaseses Sotfete 1 ity  ate aso hat  itre  lecee  ononopin-parts
Stotinesny poonisfno - Is a steolnary                                   P-ydintiioiheet Isnno gfnad
stntaereaonntnntdT-si  enfenJ  n1Y  afte19                    fee ill0 tyI tate1             hpecateln I               -neni- had tins              -  Fa
denlntobeeplteec  lneof   einetnrodctcoot    aet              nlatscoo-tonlnneadfenl-Ocstnal,alo-de-l
iSoinsynhe  gpolatin in Se yea  hf,adtett   fdc nf -eas_ht   dj-s td  bon dlh flocen  lsgceofg tpeond-o;  o
pooaln    nsLlg he rected                                                            .eodo. oQI- jl tonal,               p-n ndfnhl--opoe   aodn;ncnd
popoletino Denity                                                         edocacint  n5cinen ac leAt foot cents o  np~rccedytiesy itnetIctfinn
ystsn.i.-nid-eatcoplntoocteceooenkiloetec IlS hanaceelo                 pnooifn geonnl,ootclocal  ononnhecceaolcg iotroceicc_fo
tota  nna; Mt,  9yC  ond198  doe.                                                 ppi1  onoilyof  2 to17  ean  of  ge;norm pndItc cocea  ar
-ePs.n,n                                                                                                                  ..f 90   o   91dta  ol-enneto   ...Otl  an  neodr-Tcola rcde-t  notced, I
year- ppsTic;131  1900,f and198  daa.CIO_9P
PedI  ahhtNln   hosnl-onoldotant  iondifsdyentnnoe   ae   e   tontd -o1nlnl-Pnson   at   oyis   no
popisio;    ,h, 1970, iland 193 -dl.nna .                                                 cas....g  es  ce  ngh It_h               eddo  shlaco,  ennn  n
Penso nepodono io  hsc-o        -Yg coIne cfdotns5000slhohnciincehct
le   osa   e footn   penldi  she eso -tle-noes preen  ng h-opc tic                     oi   eenc   petennnoni-o                        i  ypno  cn              c  ai
tectl Iy oses  onal y foe-eacnecgooncdcg  n lhI,197, ad              bcadcct d-Igne     colo-       ye` clesan  ofpooloton;encode  on
1981.                                                             lonocoeceececorrnocnncnttioeandnynansbtcnngiettctloo  of main~~~~~~~~j. 
tainlnin-cenref           colcbondlosoiohroanpen                                             etIdoeec    itnon.tner    ncthcnaalelnos
of brthconccla rmanondenosine  ofcaeoP.      faslyj   . plt -c   _contntno-ald    cnon
progran.                                                                           Olncennoro Innthno.atdcPolatli-l h-sceicecnlIbcn-dcnscd
tsesiypiotefn5-setn I tetoco ho atid-nn)Pectaeo    etldgrnopo,    echoattqu...ncoeongrsefncno
nanfhId-rnntng     iSbyandhtbit-ncnlclcnot  coeln  o    cccohotyoncoctlnt    nintet
nancledoosec lcnofean_itooEDUConAT                                                      dltO'oo yoo.bcn-ontg
foeno  fody_dcco I     o  aoc   1h-1il1  -10c  o  yconco                                       oo: n_o                        cccoledccea   nc.   niton   deo
data,            ......d.y..C.
pPriapicoonclt'nchlncin   Ipencnt -o nnlefon  -Coopone  ten                           Too   ao   oc   eosns   CoogclynteyPns   nldtai
sneg   qooletofnt od  nplessaialeinctrype   apt  prfccs  o                            'ePice  toP' ido    oneoo,otdos,ec    oe  o
day.nnalshn sppliscnpnie  dses in  eodccin,  npnc t esspnplanio o  al ags.  so fclcloo  ltotinocnctteeneod
enpcn-s, end  hogy   Snstc.  -e  nppie  end         d  a- ims   fed  sed,boanhe,O,17  tI 13   nn
5nt  te   ndi  od  rcsigendlsesi   itinto                                                       etueIrcn      eoePac   oc   npcetoea    iIlhnfre
'eorntssr   silseed hy..   hsd.       hyilgclnes  o   nol                     ~          ioloeIprec  Ihhc.frc.I  fh.og  fre-                         ,totn   n
antitiy and  ealth  oneidetngenoen~eool tesrtetote   ho0alis,fsigastteh                                    ofItntoi  ylahotfotne;   .. dOi    -19 -,n St   s
sen  he se dnttlotin  tepopostfn, m   suningIg ytnet fosane           lt ostt Icemet I- LaorciorchOn  -nn-1            ccococcion,dnnfococin
an hnosehol  lenel;  .9....90.. 93drn                                                               n   iotlly,ottno   na                  . rc...ag  ofY total le0o t0o;r 960
pee  snit  soplo o  proelt gros  cnndsp)- Pctetnnotee atpen  apit      197  sod1931data
polon prti,o   li96g0oshndb   oaa   rni.Ths                                                     90   91,19nd1981dots   Theo ar hf-         ed. n  1-0' - at-1   it-tn-jate
per  -nta  erinsplyto  an lodnos                     ctentpl  ofd fIllheyoo  lao  force
dance   fn  19a70ats nd   198nes ingasye-  a;131h,170ad17
"--cnSe  dat.e 9denl60d f9ins 0 lIetdis 1901970     nd13   oe                                 oshis
Hi-d. Npaitousnd                             f,                                                          .!--  I0id  C 130000                                  d  -r
ot hlcth;  -5-7  1970 nod    , 13 d da9a.                                                       sbol5  tcettd it-on  ea  o    oIn
Cl.d~~~~~~~~~      1-h-   F th.-d                                        Oocot   ontt   ocneIce   n  ho   ncsebefhtcchccno-a
yer  f  g  panD  1970nand line hdcths  19h, 171and191.cts
Ineto   aoWttIenn   fpponin      oo.obn   t   oa                                                  cnilclyaent   itpc   nonlltofo   totsnsI   o
t.hropepe(nn,oheantoslstresnhl  ann- t  sfe                                                   Raffo--ndn-tlAlot.1                                              I            -i
noenopllicldeteaedofseonestoctntdntElIata0lnnaoo-ynco1ollSph.itl-rnnocnl
senbeteh of   1. th doshodd   o                a n  t   po  oi-prop-tlonatffpart of                                                                    b
rorl-tToth-- ofpope(tnl,....no.onl.eredh.sen
F ipsla   ecnoe  i   hirsenn   ooanos.OcaaOooa
sApI NtModethectett   o   lpsl,at   natotteses,o                                                                                     ncnoedhco   ea ooo
Onsnnnntas-   oeteanetbysaerbore.ys.s.o te oe  f  itInoolc  dloss  td-                                                                                     ejenihs-eneoeo
priFise an   ila   ea   ato                                                                                                                      o    3



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                   8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                  11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2      4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970=100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)        2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68       1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                      Average Annual Growth
1982                  Shares of GDP (Z)                    (Z) at Constant Prices
National Accounts             (S billion)   1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GDP                           260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8          5.8       6.0       6.5
Agriculture                  96.1          ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6          3.2       5.8       3.2
Industry                    105.4          ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1          8.9       7.4       8.2
Other                        58.9          ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5          4.3       1.2       7.1
Consumption                   181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7          5.4       5.7       7.4
Investment                     73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8          6.8       2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                   24.9         3.7/b   6.0       9.6     8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1         3.2
Imports GNFS                   20.0         3.5/b   6.8       7.7    10.0      9.8    2.3/b    9.4/b    2.7         7.9
National savings               78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0         ..
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                   1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign           28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                           16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +12.6          +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                           11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                           0.7            0.9           1.6
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate Cx)                            5.4       6.0        5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                 3.5       4.6        4.4        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (Z)            8.3         ..
ICOR                                          5.4         ..         ..        3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.42        ..         ..        0.16
Import elasticity                             0.95      0.45        1.9        1.3
/a  NMP basis.
T7  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Gross.



*- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
.Population:   1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                Annual Growth Rates (x)
(million US$ at                            (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                      current prices)                     Actual                            Projected
1982                    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Kerchandise exports               22,476                   25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                           5,353                     ..     ..      ..      ..       .
Other primary                    5,110                     ..     ..       ..     ..      ..      ..      .
Manufactures                    11,356                     ..      ..     ..
Other                              657                     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Merchandise imports               17,830                   21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10.0    Q.0
Food                             4,003                     ..     ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Petroleum                             0                    ..      ..      ..            0       0      0       0
Machinery and equipment          3,405                     ..      ..      ..     ..      . 
Other                           10,422                     ..     ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)          ..                 100.0  115.9  L19.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978=100)          ..                 100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978=100)                           100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (M)                   Average Annual Increase (x)
(at current prices)                               (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          1.6       8.0      14.8       1.9       4.0
Energy                       19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0             ..        ..        ..        .
Other primary                34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8           ..        ..        ..        .
Manufactures                 46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9           ..        ..        ..        .
Other                         0      0       5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3          ..        ..        ..
Imports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          2.3       9.4       3.2      10.8      10.0
Food                           ..      ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8          ..        . .       ..        ..
Energy                        0      0       0       0       0       8.2       ..       0         0         0
Machinery and                25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1           ..        ..        ..        .
equipment
Other                          ..      ..   56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With           Share of Tracde With             Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (%)              Planned Economies (X) /a
Direction of Trade             1978             1981         1978             1981               1978             1981
Exports                      37.3            45.9          51.6            50.2                11.1             3.9
Imports                     73.3             76.8          17.5             18.7               9.2              4.5
/a Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



-27-                           ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                Projected
Indicator                             1979    1980    1981       1982    1983    1985    1990
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _estimate
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services           15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29>350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          13,653  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services           18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                              596      500     680       412     420      500     800
Current account balance                 -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                    -       57     265       359     400      500   1,500
MLT loans (net)                            800   1,130      416       426      400     800   6,000
Official                                 350      446     479       557     600
Private                                  450      684     -63      -131    -200
Other capital                            2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" =
increase)                               -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                   7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                        5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                 4.8      3.7     5.0       9.4      11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                         ..
Concessional loans                        ..
T                                       .AC
OPEC                                    ..
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits                 ..
IBRD
Other multilateral                      ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt                          ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments            ..       ..      ..
Interest                                ..       ..       ..
Payments as % exports GNFS        ,.      ..      5.0     7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans (Z)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



- 28 --
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                                 t$ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower               Purpose                Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
2021     1981   People's Republic    University De-
1167               of China               velopment            100.0   100.0         133.6
1261     1982   People's Republic    Agriculitural
of China               Development                   60.0          42.5
2207     1982   People's Republic    Ports                     124.0       -         124.0
of China
1297     1982   People's Republic    Ag. Ed. and
of China               Research                -     75.4          70.4
2226     1982   People's Republic    Industrial
1313               of China               Credit                40.6    30.0          67.7
2231     1983   People's Republic    Daqing
of China               Petroleum            162.4      -          160.0
2252     1983   People's Republic    Zhongyuan
of China               Petroleum            100.8      -          100.0
2261     1983   People's Republic    Heilongjiang Land
1347               of China               Reclamation           35.3    45.0          80.0
1411     1983   People's Republic    Polytechnic/TV
of China               University              -     85.0          85.0
1412     1983   People's Republic    Technical
of China               Cooperation             -      10.0          9.8
1417     1984/a People's Republic    Rubber De-
of China               velopment               -    100.0         100.0
2382     1984/b People's Republic    Lubuge Hydro-
of China               electric             145.4       -         145.4
1984/c People's Republic    Railway                  220.0                 220.0
of China
Total                                           708.5   505.4       1,118.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       708.5   505.4
Total undisbursed                                    704.4   414.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 311, 1984)
None
/a Signed on January 5, 1984, but not yet effective.
T7 Signed on March 12, 1984, but not yet effective.
7cT Approved on March 27, 1984 but not signed as of March 31.
Note:    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 29 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
RURAL HEALTH AND MEDICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        9 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                  The Government and the Association
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                        January 1983
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:       September 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:           March 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        July 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Credit effectiveness: That the Special Account shall have been opened
and that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the
Development Credit and Project Agreements (Draft Development Credit
Agreement Section 6.01).
Other special conditions: The Government would:
(a) carry out a health manpower study to be conducted by June 30, 1986
under terms of reference determined after consultation with
IDA, and would furnish IDA with a copy of such study (para. 50 D).
(b) award overseas fellowships, including foreign language training,
on the basis of an overall implementation in accordance with MOPH's
existing policies and procedures for such training and will review
the progress of the fellowships and technical assistance programs
at least once a year, commencing in July 1984, and agree on such
modifications to the above arrangements as may be mutually satis-
factory.



- 30 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) maintain the WBLO throughout the project implementation period
with appropriate functions and staffing (para. 52);
(d) assure that the respective provinces would maintain the WBLOs
throughout the project period with appropriate functions and
staffing (para. 52);
(e) ensure that the facilities required :for the installation of equip-
ment and the personnel needed to operate and maintain it would be
available prior to the installation of the equipment (para. 58);
(f)  ensure that the medical education component would be carried out
in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 49).



IBRD 17638RI
6'e
APRIL )984
LDCATIO IF MEDICAL Cot 1,,GES
13,,),, C.Ip f
2. .6h., M,.I
S  0   V        E    T           U    N    I   0    N
L
Ch Md,.I
6.      MW1.1 C.1 .1(CN-h.)
10.       m'.'
C I L 0 Al 0 1 1 1 1 O
12. M-I C.11-(kiW
13                                                                                                                                                 UIAANBAAFAR
m   0   N    G   0    L   I   A                                                                       C.-h-
'j
7
X I N                                                                                                                                               J
L                         DEMQCRATIC
PEOPE-S REPUBtIC
AFGHANISTAN I                                                                                                                                                                                                                           v      OFKCJRBA
IC,           0 N   I 0 L
im                             ;YdVG'YANo
1"T4 iSEOUL
CKYO
''REPUBLI
Ev                                                           EA
--p 1". LI-         b,                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF KORI
'x"
ft'o &k I fff -o-I,
d
-d fh           F,                                                                                                                                                                                            f
C-'P Z
-p                lb,
/v
-f 1 Wld F- Id th
Zj' dp'-11t th 1,, -1
H,
Z, 11
C"
C q u A                                               C,                                                                                                               2d,
f              "p                                                                            1Y
C H I N A                                                                                                                                              F
H u I I
RURAL  HEALTH  AND                                                                                                                                                                         ro)",
MEDICAL  EDUCATION   PROJECT                                                                                                                 C b I Z I 0  5
X' 0    4,
Ploiect P'ovic.s
).11    Med,c.1  Colleges
HONG WV
Pl---l Bo,td-e,
Ife-choal BCundc-s                                                 BUR                                                                                                                                                              5  '3   7
VA
0        20(       doo       600        800       IOGO K110METERS                                    LAO  PEOPLE'S
ATI
--T ---------                                                                        -DEMOCR    IC.
0              201)            400              600 MILES                                                   JBLfC        VIEJ' NA
THAILAND "PI'
PHMPNES



I
I
i
r
I



