OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1472 CHA
DOCUNMENTS
Project Agreement
(Rural Health and Medical Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
SHANDONG PROVINCE
SICHUAN PROVINCE
and
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated                           , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1472 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       ;     LA              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association)  and   HEILONGJIANG  PROVINCE,  SHANDONG   PROVINCE,
SICHUAN PROVINCE, and NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION (hereinafter
called the Local Entities).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of China (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 80,200,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that the Local Entities agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Local Entities, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless- the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Local Entities declares its
commitment to the objectives of Part A of the Project, and also
Part C.3 of the Project in the case of Sichuan, as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, to this end,
shall carry out such respective Parts of the Project described
in said Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering


﻿- 2 -
and public health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) With respect to that Part of the Project for which each
of the Local Entities is financially responsible, such Local
Entity shall: (i) make adequate and timely budgetary provisions
for the implementation of such Part; and (ii) take appropriate
steps for the operation and mnintenance of the facilities and
equipment provided under the Project.
Section 2.02, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Local Entities undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Local Entity
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Each of the Local Entities shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
purposes of its respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. With respect to that Part of the Project for
which it, or any of its counties or agencies, is responsible,
each of the Local Entities:
(a) shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(b)  shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,


﻿- 3 -
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to visit the facilities and construct-
ion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.05. (a) Upon the award of any contract for goods
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, each of the Local Entities shall assist the
Borrower to prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Local Entities and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Each of the Local Entities shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Local Entities shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Each of the Local Entities shall take or cause
to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to make ready
facilities  and  related   personnel  prior  to   installation  of
equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿Section 2.08. Each of the Local Entities shall maintain a
World Bank Loan Office throughout implementation of the Project
with appropriate functions and staffing.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Local Entities shall maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and finan-
cial condition in respect of activities related to the Project,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which wvithdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) Each of the Local Entities shall retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Ac-
count on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable
the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. Each of the Local Entities shall, in respect
of activities related to the Project:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (I) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and


﻿- 5 -
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts and financial statements, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Local Entities thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Local Entities of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-6-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Heilongjiang:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Harbin, Heilongjiang Province
People's Republic of China
For Shandong:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Jinan, Shandong Province
People's Republic of China
For Sichuan:
Provincial Bureau of Health
Chengdu, Sichuan Province
People's Republic of China
For Ningxia:
Regional Bureau of Health
Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any of the Local Entities may be taken or
executed by the Director of the Bureau of Health of such Local
Entity or such other person or persons as such Director shall


﻿-7-
designate in writing, and such Director shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿8
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By
uthorized Representative
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of _
198
FOR SECRETARY


