Document of                            i       C
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3429-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 30, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
I Tunisian Dinar (DT) = US$ 2.0
I US Dollar = DT 0.5
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ATC                 Agricultural Training Center
DERV                Directorate of Education, Research and Extension Services
(Direction de l'Education, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation) in the Ministry of Agriculture
Ecole de Base       The nine-year system of basic education
HLAI                Higher Level Agricultural Institute
MOA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MOE                 Ministry of Education
MOHE                Ministry of Higher Education
MOPF                Ministry of Planning and Finance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia
Amount;             US$27 million equivalent in various currencies,
including a capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:              17 years including 4 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:      The project would improve the planning and management
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and assist
this Ministry in the restructuring and quality improvement
of its agricultural education and training system. It
would assist the Ministry of Education (MOE) in expanding
and improving its primary teacher training capacity to meet
the demand for qualified primary school teachers, and
improve the Government planning capability and training
capacity in the industrial, commercial and services
sectors. The project would consist of: (i) equipping and
providing technical assistance to the recently established
Bureau of Agricultural Education Studies and Planning of
MOA; (ii) providing didactic and farming equipment to six
higher-level institutions; the Tunis National Institute of
Agronomy, five Higher-Level Agricultural Institutes, four
Agricultural Secondary Schools, and fifteen Agricultural
Training Centers; and equipment and technical assistance to
the National Agricultural Instructor Training Center; (iii)
constructing and equipping four new Primary School Teacher
Training Colleges under MOE; and (iv) financing studies for
the assessment of the country's needs for middle and higher
level technicians in the industrial, commercial and
services sectors, and in the design of appropriate methods
and systems for their training.
Benefits/Risks:    The proposed project would expand the country's capacity
for the training of qualified primary school teachers. It
would build up the MOA's institutional capacity for human
resources development; provide the agricultural sector with
an increased number of qualified instructors, and a well
trained body of middle and high level technicians and
specialized personnel, and ensure the efficient
dissemination of modern knowledge and skills to local
farming communities. It would also assist in the design of
investment strategies and programs for the training of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
technicians in the industrial, commercial and services
sectors, and reduce recurrent costs in the agricultural
education and training system. A risk of delays in the
implementation of the project's agricultural sector
component, because the responsible Directorate in MOA has
not had previous experience in administering a project of
this size, would be minimized by the establishment and
appropriate staffing of a Project Implementation Unit, and
the support to be provided by the more experienced
Directorates of Planning, and Administration and Finance of
MOA.
Project Costs;                    Local           Foreign          Total
------------US Million------------
Construction                        7.0             3.0            10.0
Equipment                           1.6            14.0            15.6
Furniture                          0.7              1.7             2.4
Technical Assistance               0.4              2.2             2.6
Professional Services              0.9              0.0             0.9
Baseline Cost                 10.6            20.9             31.5
Contingencies
Physical                       1.0             2.3              3.3
Price Increase                 2.1             3.4              5.5
Subtotal                       3.1             5.7              8.8
Total Project Cost*           13.7            26.6            40.3
Front-end Fee                        --             0.4             0.4
Total Financing Required    13.7              27.0            40.7
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 --            27.0            27.0
Government                         13.7              --            13.7
Total                              13.7            27.0            40.7
Estimated Disbursements:             1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
Annual                           0.6       4.9       9.6       8.1       3.8
Cumulative                       0.6       5.5      15.1      23.2     27.0
Staff Appraisal Report-.  "Fifth Education Project - Republic of Tunisia"
(No. 4153-TUN, dated November 29, 1982).
* The project is exempt from taxes and duties



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO2EENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$27 million equivalent, to help finance
a Fifth Education Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end
fee of 1.5 percent of the Bank loan, would have a term of seventeen years,
including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981.  Economic missions
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I. 2/
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfail. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new reserves, although it is too early to assess
their exact potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, and
efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.        Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to famiily
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the
Government.  Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased
only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a
consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981
exceeds the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
No. P-3431-TUN of November 24, 1982, for a Third Urban Development Project.
2/ Country data have been updated on the basis of this review, and thus
sometimes differ from the country data sheets in Annex 1.



- 2 -
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of the slump in European markets. By contrast,
manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy, phosphate
processing, construction, and construction materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand,
particularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained
favorable from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace
than exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply
higher post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap
remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76
percent of investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP
for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged
$450 million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and
private investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent,
while the remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus,
during the 1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the
debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were
equivalent to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one
of the highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including for social security accounted for 19
percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil
refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



- 3 -
10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for the Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.
II.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixtb Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and electrical and
mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable,. it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will bave to face the consequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate is in
line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports (tourism,
textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for
the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brougbt about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.             -
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the



-4-
incentive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to
offer free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new
projects in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and
Household Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient
technical and financial management of the public and private modern sector,
the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an
expanded network of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are
planned for 1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and
should alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of
public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system sbould be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor
agricultural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and
the interior (West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.
The Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprebensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could,
however, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving
their relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs
of the poor and rural groups.



19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from
households above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the
private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and
creditworthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to
succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in
the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have



-6-
gained momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities
in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in
manufacturing. Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to
about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total
investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15
percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent
to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks
(para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.       In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the
implementation of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA 1/
25.       Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-three loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,056.3 million and $70.0
million (net of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and all credits have
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of September 30, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 53
percent of appraisal estimates, which compares favorably with other countries
in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance
and port- projects has generally been above the country average, while larger
than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project
specific problems that are being addressed through supervision missions and
sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors or
subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to; (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population
groups; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in
the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and
advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program,
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (No.
P-3421-TUN) of November 24, 1982, for a Third Urban Development Project.



the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and the Technical
Assistance Project (para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in
its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure
cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important
in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 34
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 18 percent of total commitments. In addition, earlier this fiscal
year, the Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving
the Government's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.       In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed fifth education project aimed at improving the
Government's capability to train primary education teachers and technicians in
agriculture, industry and related commercial sectors, proposed future lending
would include projects in agriculture, industry and mining, energy, health,
water supply and urban sewerage.
29.       The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this
issue was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3399-TUN of September 15, 1981). The Plan Review Report, to be issued together
with two sector surveys on agriculture and urban development towards the end
of 1982, will deepen this analysis. Further economic and sector work will
include a review of employment issues, of incentive and pricing policies (in
association with the study on effective protection), of the long-term energy
strategy and of the education, transport, and small scale industry sectors.
30.       The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9
percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to remain at about 10 percent and their share in the debt service
to increase to about 13 percent through 1986.



31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $10.6
million, as of September 30, 1982. IFC has recently arranged a $40 million
loan package to COFIT, of which about $20 million equivalent for IFC's own
account, and is looking into the possibility of loans for the expansion of a
phosphoric acid fertilizer plant and of technical assistance to the recently
established development banks.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
32.      Soon after independence (1956), the Tunisian Government launched an
ambitious education reform aimed at making the education system accessible to
all children of school age, and more relevant to the cultural, social and
economic needs of a modernizing society. With consistent Bank support since
1962, the expansion of education infrastructure is now commensurate with
national needs. Gross enrollment ratios stand at 100 percent in primary, and
30 percent in secondary schools, with female participation rates at 42 percent
in primary, and 37 percent in secondary schools. These rates compare
favorably with other Arab countries. Education policies directed towards the
"Tunisianization" of the teaching service have almost achieved their target:
100 percent of teachers in primary, 84 percent in secondary schools, and 81
percent in the tertiary system are currently Tunisians. Arabic continues to
be promoted as the vehicle of teaching, including skill-training and
university education. Policies aimed at increasing the relevance of education
to the needs of the economy have focused, with a large measure of success, on
the introduction of practical work at the primary and post-primary levels, on
more emphasis on science and technology courses at the secondary and higher
levels, and on improved training methods and systems that would improve the
productivity and employability of school leavers and of the unskilled.
33.      Primary and secondary public education is free; private schooling is
available at the primary and secondary levels, but accounts for less than 1
percent and around 6 percent of total enrollment, respectively. At present,
the formal education and training system under the Ministry of Education (MOE)
comprises six years of primary schooling (grades 1 to 6), a secondary level of
seven years, consisting of three years lower-level general or vocational
education (grades 7 to 9), and four years upper-level general or technical
education (grades 10 to 13). Two additional primary grades 7 and 8 were
introduced in the mid-1970s to provide pre-vocational training for those who
do not gain access to secondary schooling. Vocational training is also
undertaken by the Ministry of Social Affairs through its Office of Employment
and Training, and by other technical Ministries. Higher education is provided
under the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) in the University of Tunis, and
in specialized institutes linked to it, and under the technical Ministries in
a number of specialized institutions, altogether totalling 53 establishments
with about 33,000 students. Teacher training for the primary level is
provided in four-year colleges (grades 10-13) for those completing the 3 years
of lower-level general secondary education and, for the secondary level, in
four-year general and technical training colleges attached to the University
of Tunis.



-9 -
34.      Agricultural education and training at the secondary, vocational and
higher technical levels, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). It is provided through a system consisting of: four Agricultural
Secondary Schools, 28 Agricultural Training Centers (ATC), and nine Higher
Level Agricultural Training Institutes (HLAI). This system has not been able
to meet the demands of Tunisia's expanding agricultural sector. The large
increase in the demand for skilled agricultural manpower and trained
specialists during the 1970s is expected to continue for the next two decades,
as a result of the diversification of Tunisia's agricultural production and
crop specialization, and the growing sophistication of farming methods and
techniques. In 1981/1982 the MOA institutions could meet only 43 percent of
the demand for specialized and refresher courses in new crop techniques,
emanating mainly from local farmers and agricultural technicians. Meanwhile,
shortages of middle and higher level technicians are affecting public
agricultural services. The lack of sufficient specialists in such key areas
as agriculture mechanics, rural engineering and irrigation works, irrigated
crop farming and animal husbandry, and shortages in field supervisory
personnel (Chief Engineers and Public Works Engineers), as well as serious
deficiencies in instructor training methods and curricula, and in farm
equipment represent major constraints affecting the growth of the agricultural
sector, a top priority of the Sixth Plan.
35.      The adjustment of the capacity of the agricultural training system to
manpower demand faces serious difficulties due to inadequate labor force and
manpower data. As most of the graduates of the formal agricultural secondary
and tertiary institutions are employed in public agencies, the MOA assessment
of technical manpower needs is based on the Government employment capacity as
reflected in the annual "Loi des Cadres", which fixes the maximum size of
public agencies. At present, the education and training system can meet about
80 percent of the demand. A more precise estimate of public sector demand
will result from manpower studies to be financed under the proposed project
and feasibility studies financed under the recently approved Technical
Assistance loan (No. 2197-TUN of October 29, 1982). In the meantime, a recent
survey of public sector agencies reveals a need for about 5,500 agricultural
technicians during the Sixth Plan period, while only about 3,260 could be
accommodated under the "Loi des Cadres". Also, the Sixth Plan's agricultural
policy will stimulate private sector demands for technical manpower, and will
include an important expansion of extension activities, which should further
increase the demand for extension workers, technicians and supervisors. The
demand for high-level technicians may require an expansion of the MOA
institutions' physical capacity, which the Government envisages to initiate
during the Sixth Plan period. In the meantime, the MOA will give priority
attention to the serious qualitative deficiencies of the system, as identified
in a 1980 Bank/UNESCO subsector study of agricultural education and training.
These deficiencies are evident at all levels: pedagogically unqualified
instructors; lack of linkages between agricultural research and extension, and
the farming communities; and the failure to adjust training to changing needs
due to the lack of manpower assessment and education planning capacity.
36.      Constraints and Policies.  In spite of considerable achievements, the
Tunisian education and training system has been dominated during the last two



- 10 -
decades by the key issues of planning and management deficiencies, and by two
major problems of low internal and external efficiency. Substantial and
consistent Government efforts, in terms of both financial inputs and policy
reforms have not yet begun to bear the expected results. Internal
inefficiency is reflected in high drop-out and repeater rates, particularly at
the primary level where they reached 27 percent and 50 percent, respectively,
in grade 6 during 1981. Over 100,000 students (of which 80 percent at the
primary level) leave the system every year without formal qualifications.
Education policies at the primary level have focussed on retaining a higher
proportion of students in the system, and on improving the schooling
environment through reducing class size, and introducing quasi-automatic grade
promotion. However, these measures did not improve drop-out and repeater
rates, and led to a high concentration of repeaters in the last (sixth)
grade. It is expected that, in the context of promising strategies, to be
tested under the first phase of the Sixth Plan's education reform (para. 38),
vital complementary measures aimed at improved teaching methods and better
didactic materials will be gradually introduced. The quality of teaching has
been identified as a major shortcoming. Expanding demand, and the rigidity of
formal primary teacher training have resulted in an ever-increasing reliance
on untrained substitute teachers, recruited from among secondary school
leavers, which include unsuccessful diploma candidates, lacking commitment and
skills to ensure continuity or quality of service. The Government has
initiated a policy consisting of intensive pedagogical training of secondary
education graduates (Baccalaureat holders), and the introduction of one full
year of in-service practice training, as well as short-term practical courses
tailored to meet specific training needs. These flexible and better targeted
training policies have been initiated by MOE under a transition plan, agreed
with the Bank, to meet the anticipated shortage of about 10,000 grade 1 to 6
primary school teachers during 1982-1986, which cannot be accommodated in the
existing institutions. In line with the Sixth Plan's decentralization policy
favoring disadvantaged regions, primary teachers would be recruited within
these regions, thus ensuring a greater commitment, and the improvement of the
school children's learning process in these areas. The proposed project would
support these policies.
37.      The external efficiency of the education and training system is at
the centre of the Government constant preoccupation with high unemployment
rates. Education policies during the seventies aimed at making the system
more relevant to the needs of the economy through the introduction by MOE, in
the primary school cycle, of practical subjects in grades 5 and 6, and the
extension of this cycle to grades 7 and 8 to provide school leavers with
vocational exposure and preparation. They have also sought to direct
secondary school enrollments towards vocational and technical training, and
university enrollments towards science and technology. While these measures
have been implemented successfully, they have failed to reduce the persistent
high-levels of youth unemployment and underemployment. Unemployed persons
with primary and first cycle secondary school credentials increased from about
55 percent to over 63 percent of all unemployed between 1975 and 1980, and
youngsters aged 15-24 represented about 59 percent of all unemployed in 1980.
There is also evidence of distortions in manpower supply, with surplus at the
lower level and deficits at the middle and higher-levels of qualifications,
and of inter-regional imbalances, revealing a misr,aatch between the manpower



- 11 -
needs of the economy, and the output of the education and training systema.
The major constraints, common to the systems under both MOE and MOA, appear to
be the lack of contact with employers, an incomplete knowledge of labor market
needs, too rigid and over-specialized curricula, and the lack of sufficient
general education base and maturity of trainees.
38.      The Sixth Plan's education and training strategy seeks to reduce
drop-out and repeater rates; it endorses the policies and objectives of
increasing enrollment ratios and female participation rates, improving higher
education, and redressing regional disparities in both quantitative and
qualitative terms. The Plan also endorses the generalization, under MOE, of
pre-vocational courses in the extended post-primary grades 7 and 8; it further
emphasizes in all sectors the vocational and technical programs in secondary
schools, and science and technology in university. In addition, the Plan
introduces a major structural reform which will combine the lower secondary
(grades 7 to 9) with the primary cycle (grades 1 to 6) into a nine-year system
of basic education: the "Ecole de Base", under MOE. All upper level
secondary programs, including those under MOA, would be restructured into a
parallel system of academic, technical and scientific "collages". The reform
will be introduced as of the academic year 1984/1985, starting with the
primary fourth grade, and will be implemented gradually upwards during the
1980s, to cover the whole nine-year system by 1989/1990. All "Ecole de Base"
drop-outs and school leavers would be eligible for skill training. All
primary and secondary school leavers would receive diplomas, and the flow from
primary to the three types of secondary colleges, planned at 45 percent of
primary graduates, would be controlled through competition, and would be
adjusted to manpower needs. Admission to university, now automatic for all
Baccalaureat holders, will be similarly competitive, and adjusted to manpower
requirements.
39.      By retaining in schools, for an additional three years of study, a
projected average of 33,000 pupils, who would otherwise leave the system every
year, the "Ecole de Base" is expected to improve internal efficiency, provide
a better base and orientation for employment, or further education and
training; it would go a long way towards adjusting the system to the needs of
the economy. However, the planning and development of the structure and
curricula of the new 7 to 9 grades, and the changes in the quality, quantity
and mix of inputs, including teaching materials for students and teachers, for
the secondary "collages", will have to be well orchestrated. Also the
institutional, management, administrative and financial implications of the
reform are all matters for further study. Furthermore, appropriate strategies
for post-secondary technician training, and for the training and upgrading of
skilled manpower in all sectors will have to be designed. This is the
objective of the studies to be financed under the proposed project. With
regard to the agricultural sector, the Sixth Plan's investments (20 percent of
total investments as compared to 13 percent under the Fifth Plan) aim at the
introduction and dissemination of modern and innovative technologies in the
production process, more intensive cultivation of higher yield crops, and the
expansion of livestock production. Investments have also been directed
towards expanded and more intensive research efforts oriented to the specific
needs of local farmers. Private initiative will be encouraged through the
distribution of state land, and the provision of credit and technical



- 12 -
assistance to graduates of agricultural secondary schools and training centers
to establish themselves as independent farmers. This strategy will largely
depend on the availability of well trained skilled and technical manpower,
particularly of senior technicians. The implications of this strategy for the
agricultural education and training system are addressed by the Sixth Plan's
education reform. The MOA will focus on improving curricula, upgrading the
teaching staff, and improving the operation of school farms through better
management and the provision of farming and didactic equipment. The proposed
project would address these issues,and finance manpower planning studies to
match the supply of agricultural manpower resources with the sector's demand.
40.       Management and Finance.  While proceeding through a piecemeal
approach to expanding infrastructure and improving efficiency, Government
policies have resulted in a complex education and training system, with some
serious overlapping and functional gaps, and inadequate communication between
and within education and training agencies. There is a pressing need for the
introduction of more effective modern management and administrative techniques
and procedures at all levels. This would be essential for the implementation
of the contemplated reform, a complex task requiring a strong institutional
framework, and high calibre managers and administrators. As a result of its
dialogue with the Bank, the Government is preparing a plan of action supported
by studies to be financed under the proposed project for institutional
development and improved cost-effectiveness. With the expected 4.6 percent
increase per annum of total enrollments during 1982-1991, as compared to 2
percent per annum during the 1970s, and the increases in teachers' salaries
under pressure from the unions, the education and training share of GDP could
reach 8 percent by 1986 (6 percent in 1979), exceeding 20 percent of total
Government expenditures (17 percent in 1979). This would be a heavy burden on
the Government budget. Also, the education reform, particularly with its
objective of achieving regional equity of education opportunity and quality,
will impose additional costs which have yet to be accurately estimated.  The
measures envisaged by the Government to reduce education expenditures
include: improved school planning and utilization, reduction of unit
construction costs, the introduction of school fees based on affordability,
and a reduction in the number of university scholarships, currently granted to
80 percent of university students. With regard to agricultural education and
training, these measures would include improving the management of the farms
attached to the agricultural secondary schools, and streamlining and
increasing the capacity utilization of these schools and agricultural training
centers (ATC) through the expansion of short., intensive, demand-oriented
courses. This is expected to bring capacity utilization, in secondary
schools, from the current 70 percent to 80 percent by 1990 and to full
utilization of ATC capacity by that date. The proposed project is designed to
support these objectives.
Bank Group Assistance
41.       Since 1962, Bank Group lending to Tunisia has supported the
development of primary and secondary education and training through two
credits and two loans. It has consistently supported manpower development,
with special emphasis on raising the quality of education and training. The



- 13 -
first two credits ($5 million in 1962, and $13 million in 1966) financed 13
new secondary schools, expanded seven, and equipped 27 existing secondary
schools, and extended a secondary teacher training college. Physical
implementation of both projects was satisfactory. A technical assistance
component under the second credit to strengthen the planning capacity of the
Ministry of Education was less successful, for lack of agreement on the terms
of reference of the team of specialists, and the unsatisfactory calibre of
these specialists. The Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 2226
dated September 29, 1978) on the Second Education Project found that it was in
line with Tunisia's education priorities, but that an increased emphasis on
vocational training was needed. The Third Education Project (Loan 1155-TUN,
$8.9 million in 1975) introduced practical work in primary grades 5 and 6,
with the related teacher training requirements, and an experimental grade 7
and 8 program. The project was amended in 1979 to conform with the
Government's revised policy to extend this post-primary scheme to the entire
system, rather than limit it to an experimental phase. The revised project
provided workshops for 325 primary schools, and the expansion and/or equipping
of seven primary teacher training colleges. A technical assistance program
financed planning studies on the development of the "Ecole de Base", and on
the adjustment of education and training to the labor market. Overall,
implementation has been satisfactory. The project will be completed as
scheduled.   The loan is now fully committed. Its closing date is March 31,
1983.
42.      The Fourth Education Project (Loan 1961-TUN for $26 million in 1981)
focuses on the formal and non-formal trade and skill-training system under the
Office of Employment and Training of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It
finances the construction of seven new vocational training centers, and a new
apprentice center, the expansion and/or equipping of 17 existing vocational
training centers, and three existing apprentice centers. It includes
technical assistance supporting the planning and coordination activities of
the Office. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The proposed
project, which focuses on the agricultural education and training sector, and
on primary teacher training, would also finance planning studies. The
emphasis on improving education planning runs through all the projects since
1966. While the second project has strengthened the Planning Unit of MOE,
studies under the third project have contributed to the preparation of the
education reform. They will be complemented by studies to be financed under
the proposed project on middle and higher level technician training in the
agricultural, industrial and services sectors. These studies reinforce the
Government's capability to achieve the Sixth Plan's priority objectives of
increasing productivity in industry and agriculture.  The Government is well
aware that adjustments in the education sector alone will not resolve the
problem of unemployment, the most serious challenge it will have to face
during the 1980s. Rising expectations, encouraged by extended family support,
food subsidies, increasing minimum wages and social benefits, result in costly
extended unemployment periods, due to reservations on the part of job seekers
who do not accept available jobs. Also, employers tend to attribute more
value to seniority and informal on-the-job experience, and have mixed feelings
about the value of skill qualifications acquired in school. Policies related
to a cluster of employment problems including income and wage policies,
incentives and personnel and management practices, are part of the economic
dialogue between the Government and the Bank, and would be addressed in an
employment study to be launched in the later part of fiscal year 1983.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The proposed project would contribute to the implementation of the
education and training development strategies of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986),
and is consistent with the Bank lending program for Tunisia. It was
identified in February 1981. Preparation work started in June 1981, and the
project was appraised in March 1982. Technical discussions and negotiations
were held in Washington from November 18 to 24, 1982. The Tunisian Delegation
was headed by Mr. Abdelkrim Jaoua, Assistant Director at the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MOPF), and included representatives from the Ministries
of Agriculture (MOA) and Education (MOE). The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
4153-TUN, dated November 29, 1982) is being circulated separately. The main
features of the project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report, and in Annex III. A map showing the location of
project institutions is also attached.
44.      Objectives and Description.  The proposed project would (i)
strengthen the planning and management capacity of MOA, assist this Ministry
in the restructuring and quality improvement of its agricultural education and
training system at all levels, and strengthen and develop its programs for the
dissemination of technical knowledge and skills among local farming
communities; it would thus contribute to meeting the manpower requirements of
the Sixth Plan in the top priority agricultural sector; (ii) assist MOE in
meeting the demand for qualified primary school teachers by the expansion and
quality improvement of primary teacher training; and (iii) improve Governmaent
manpower assessment and planning capability, as well as its training capacity
with regard to technicians in the industrial, commercial and services
sectors. The project would consist of: (i) equipping and providing technical
assistance to the recently established Bureau of Agricultural Education
Studies and Planning of MOA; (ii) providing didactic and farming equipment to
six higher level institutions: the Tunis National Institute of Agronomy, five
higher level agricultural institutes, four Agricultural Secondary Schools, and
fifteen Agricultural Training Centers, and equipment and technical assistance
to the National Agricultural Instructor Training Center; (iii) constructing
and equipping of four new Primary School Teacher Training Colleges under MOE;
and (iv) financing studies, to be carried out jointly by MOE and MOPF for the
assessment of the country's needs for middle and higher-level technicians in
the industrial and services sectors, and in the design of appropriate methods
and systems for their training.
45.      The Bureau of Agricultural Education Studies and Planning was
established within the Directorate of Education, Research and Extension
(Direction de l'Education, de la Recherche et de la Vulgarisasion-DERV) of MOA
to improve the link between research, education, extension, and skill training
in the agricultural sector. Its main responsibilities are to determine, in
coordination with the Directorate of Planning in MOA, the quantitative and
qualitative needs for technical agricultural personnel, adjust resources to
manpower training needs, and improve the quality content of curricula in the
education and training institutions under MOA. The terms of reference of the
Bureau, as well as its work program under the project, are consistent with,
and will contribute to the design of the national program of agricultural
research and extension supported by the Bank-financed Technical Assistance



- 15 -
Project (para. 35). The proposed project would provide the Bureau with
equipment, furniture and expert services to enable it to carry out its
planning studies including: an analysis of the current stock of, and future
requirements for agricultural technicians; the evaluation of school farms
operations; a precise inventory of on-farm practical training opportunities,
and the development of new monitoring and evaluation procedures; and
feasibility studies for the improvement of the the school farms' management
methods and administrative procedures, and for introducing pedagogy courses
and extension techniques in the secondary and higher agricultural schools.
The Bureau is adequately staffed, and is being further strengthened by the
secondment of two professionals from the MOA Directorate of Planning to ensure
proper liaison and coordination.
46.      A National Agricultural Instructor Training Center would be
established under the project in existing adequate premises at Sidi Thabet
north of Tunis, to improve the quality of the pedagogical and technical
training of agricultural instructors. Trainees would come from both the
agricultural secondary schools (para. 48) and the ATC (para. 49). The Center
has boarding facilities for 70 trainees, and would have an annual output of
325, of which 10 percent would be women. It would offer a large choice of
in-service training, including short courses of 4 to 8 weeks of theoretical
and applied training, and of up to one week refresher courses on new technical
or technological developments; a one-year pre-service training course for
assistant technicians, assistant engineers, field engineers and chief
engineers, with emphasis on extension work; training and upgrading courses in
research and extension methodologies, and other courses, on demand, which
would include such new topics as farm budgeting, crop techniques, and project
evaluation. In addition to its training functions, the Center would be
responsible for the supervision of instructors in the agricultural secondary
schools and training centers; the development and evaluation of education and
training programs to meet identified needs; and the design, testing and
production of didactic materials. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Director of the Center would be appointed by June 1,
1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). The Center would receive expert support,
and its staff of 26 instructors would be trained either under an on-going
French bilateral agreement, or under the proposed project's technical
assistance program.
47.      The proposed project would provide equipment, material and furniture
to help introduce new, improved, practice-oriented instruction in the six
major Higher-Level Agricultural Institutions (HLAI): (i) the Tunis National
Institute of Agronomy, which provides a six-year training course for chief
engineers; (ii) the two higher-level institutes of Medjez el-Bab (irrigation
and rural works, agricultural machinery and related disciplines), and Chott
Mariem (horticulture), which offer four-year post-secondary programs for
Agricultural Field Engineers; and (iii) the three higher level institutes of
Mateur (animal husbandry), Le Kef (major crops), and Tunis (food industries),
which provide two and four-year post-secondary programs for agricultural
technicians. New courses will be introduced (extension technologies,
hydraulics, irrigation and drainage, extensive crop cultivation techniques),
and the quality of current training would be improved. Total enrollments
would be about 760 students, with a total yearly output of about 260, of which



- 16 -
180 chief and field engineers, and 80 assistant engineers. The teaching staff
required for the newly introduced and reinforced existing programs would be
provided through a redeployment of teachers, and through the assignment of 35
out of the 75 post-graduates now being trained under a United States Agency
for International Development program, and due to return during 1983-85.
48.      The four Agricultural Secondary Schools included in the project would
be equipped and refurnished to help improve the content of training and
upgrading programs for middle level technicians. These schools are located in
the North Central region (Soukra); the Northeast region (Boucherik); the
Northwest region (Thibar), and the Central West region (Sidi Bouzid). One of
these schools (Soukra) is for girls. About 50 percent of the 450 students who
complete the basic four-year course (grades 10-13) qualifying them as
Assistant Technicians join the labor market. About 45 percent proceed to the
HLAI (para. 47) for the two-year course (grades 14-15) to qualify as Assistant
Engineers. These schools' annual output of about 196 graduates, of which
about 16 percent are women, would meet 83 percent of the average annual public
sector requirement for Assistant Technicians during 1982-1991. Students
receive practical training in farms or agricultural firms during school
vacations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the firms and
farms which would receive secondary school students would be appraised and
selected by MOA on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank; that by
September 30, 1983, a staff member, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
appointed in each school to supervise these training programs; and that the
students would be visited and evaluated during their off-campus training (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06). In addition to producing middle level technicians,
these schools have initiated refresher and upgrading courses, in response to
the local farming communities' demand for on-the-job training. It is expected
that 1,340 trainees will benefit from these courses in the initial years, and
that this number will gradually increase through 1990. Based on full-time
equivalency this number is expected to rise from 9.5 percent to 60 percent of
the clientele served between 1982 and 1990. The proposed project will provide
didactic, and farming and agricultural machinery and equipment to support and
strengthen these programs. The available teaching staff covers 70 percent of
the required 54 teachers and instructors. It is expected that the remainder
will come from the private sector (20 percent), and from specialized public
institutions (10 percent). Special arrangements have been made and agreed
with the Government to ensure that 18 to 20 percent of the teaching staff will
be upgraded each year at the National Agricultural Instructor Training Center
(NAITC).
49.      The fifteen Agricultural Training Centers (ATC), which offer
three-year courses producing certified skilled workers, are located in
Tunisia's disadvantaged rural areas in the Northwest (four), the Northeast
(six), and the South (five). In line with the Government's policy to promote
self-employment, greater employability, and the upgrading of existing
agricultural personnel, the rigid formal three-year courses offered in these
centers have been, and will further be reduced, and replaced by short-term
flexible programs designed to meet specific local and regional training and
upgrading needs. About 7,000 trainees would benefit each year from these ad
hoc courses; between 1982 and 1990 their number is expected to increase from
50 percent to 60 percent of the clientele served by the ATC, reaching an



- 17 -
average of 14,500 per annum, while the current 830 graduates of the regular
three-year course will average 550 per annum by the end of the decade. No
additional training staff is required; however, to ensure the required teacher
upgrading, the Government has agreed to make the necessary arrangements for 18
percent of these Centers' staff to be upgraded each year at the NAITC.
50.      Four Primary Teacher Training Colleges would be constructed, equipped
and furnished under the proposed project, two in the Northwest (Jendouba and
Mateur), and two in the Central West (Kasserine and Sidi Bouzid), to meet the
urgent quantitative needs for primary school teachers, and remedy serious
deficiencies in the quality of primary school teaching in these regions.
Training programs will remain flexible and responsive to the needs of the
local communities.  They would consist of:  (i) a new one-year post-secondary
course in pedagogy (grade 14); (ii) a four-year program for lower-level
secondary school graduates, plus a one-year course in pedagogy (grades 10-14);
and (iii) a short-term in-service program. Each of these colleges would
designate one of its instructors to be responsible for planning and organizing
these in-service courses. In addition, 12 instructors would be recruited from
among experienced local teachers and regional inspectors of primary education,
to operate the in-service upgrading programs. No difficulty is expected in
the appointment of the 130 teaching staff required for these colleges. Well
qualified teacher trainees are available, and MOE is committed to the success
of these colleges in view of their crucial role in the achievement of the
overall policy of decentralization and balanced regional development.
51.      Studies on Technicians' Education and Training Systems.  The proposed
project would support the preparation of a coherent plan for the training of
technicians at all levels for industrial, commercial and services sectors'
activities. These studies would (i) identify the profiles and levels of
qualifications required by the economy; (ii) assess the existing training
system capacity in terms of infrastructure, personnel and programs; (iii)
evaluate investment alternatives for meeting training needs, and identify
projects that would be eligible for future Bank lending. The Government has
agreed that these studies would be carried out jointly by MOE and MOPF, and
that, by June 30, 1983, a coordinator for these studies satisfactory to the
Bank would be nominated and an inter-ministerial committee to monitor work
progress, would be established in consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04). The timetable and terms of reference of these studies, and the
profiles of the required specialists have been reviewed and agreed with the
Bank.
52.      The proposed technical assistance program under the project would
provide a total of 109 man/months of advisory services and 90 rman/months of
fellowships to the MOA as follows: (i) the Bureau of Agricultural Education
Studies and Planning would receive about 52 man/months of expert services in
manpower and education planning, extension techniques, and survey and
evaluation methodology; and 30 man/months of fellowship training for five
professionals of this Bureau in manpower and education planning, curriculum
development, and extension techniques; and (ii) the National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center would receive about 57 man/months of expert
services in agro-pedagogy, rural communications, extension techniques,
training evaluation, and curriculum development; and about 60 man/months of



- 18 -
fellowship training in curriculum development, rural communication techniques,
and production of audio-visual aids. About 10 man/months of expert services
would be provided by the Tunisian National Center for Agricultural Studies or
consulting firms. About 72 man/months of consultants and specialists are
provided under the project to assist MOE and MOPF in the preparation of the
studies on technician training (para. 51), half of whom would be Tunisian
specialists from consulting firms and universities; the project would also
provide for 6 man/months of fellowships including travel expenses for the
preparation and supervision work related to this study. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the terms of references, the profiles and
conditions of employment of all consultants would be reviewed by the Bank to
its satisfaction (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that the list of candidates for fellowships, the
appointment of fellows, and the details of their training programs would be
submitted to the Bank for review and approval by December 31, 1984 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05).
53.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at $40.3 million, of which $26.6 million (or 66.3 percent) is
foreign exchange. Education projects in Tunisia are exempt from taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent for all
categories except technical assistance, for which it is estimated at 5
percent. For local costs, price escalation is estimated at 9 percent for
1983, and 8 percent for 1984-1987; for foreign costs at 8 percent for 1983,
7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986-1987.
Aggregated price contingencies for local and foreign costs are estimated at
about 16 percent of baseline costs plus physical contingencies; total
contingencies are about 27 percent of baseline costs. Cost estimates assume
that all civil works, and 85 percent of furniture contracts, will be awarded
to local firms and suppliers, and that, except for some simple didactic
material, all equipment will be foreign and 90 percent directly imported. In
line with recent experience in Tunisia, estimated technical assistance costs
are based on average costs per man/month of $8,640 for experts, and $2,280 per
man/month for fellowships. The proposed Bank loan of $27 million would cover
the full foreign exchange cost, as well as the $0.4 million front-end fee, the
balance being provided by the Government.
54.       Recurrent costs, at full project operation in 1986, are expected to
be about TD 8 million, or about 1.5 percent of both MOA and MOE projected
recurrent expenditures in that year, and would remain at this same percentage
through 1991. These expenditures remain within a reasonable margin and are
expected to be fully met in view of the high priority given by the Government
to the project. However, education expenditures represent a heavy burden on
the Government budget and recurrent costs of agricultural education have
tended to be particularly high due to the operating expenses of school farnLs.
The project would support Government measures aimed at reducing recurrent
costs of agricultural education and training, particularly through improving
the management methods of the school farms, and reviewing existing complex
budgetary regulations and administrative procedures which preclude the use of
their revenues to cover part of their operating costs.



- 19 -
55.      Project Implementation.  The construction, furnishing and equipping
of all project institutions are scheduled for completion by June 1987, and the
technical assistance by December 1985. Implementation schedules for the four
primary teacher training colleges, the agriculture component operations , and
technical assistance program will be reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
Also the sources and timely provision of the required agricultural teaching
staff would be agreed during negotiations. All sites for the four teacher
training colleges have been acquired; preliminary designs will be reviewed and
agreed during negotiations. Extension of shelters for the agricultural
equipment and small maintenance shops will be executed according to
specifications and a schedule agreed with the Bank. Preliminary lists of
agricultural equipment have been completed and reviewed by the Bank; final
lists will be reviewed and agreed during negotiations. In MOE, the project
implementation unit of the Third Education Project and its experienced and
competent staff will be retained, and will be responsible for the execution of
the primary teacher training colleges. In order to coordinate the
implementation of the various project operations under MOA, a Project
Implementation Unit has been established within DERV, in MOA, and will be
maintained with a staff including a full-time director, an administrator and
an accountant, and with work program satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
56.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Civil works for the four primary
teacher training colleges, amounting to about $3.2 million each, including
contingencies, will be awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Contracts for civil works equivalent to $50,000 or less may be awarded
through competitive bidding advertised locally following procedures
satisfactory to the Bank provided their aggregate amount does not exceed
$400,000 equivalent. Civil works in remote areas estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less may, after approval by the Bank, be carried out by MOA
force account in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Furniture and equipment items, totalling $23 million would be grouped in large
packages to allow bulk procurement. Contracts in excess of $200,000 would be
awarded through ICB. Small items costing less than $200,000, or specific
items for which ICB would not be practical would be procured locally under
normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The
aggregate value of furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed $2
million, or about 8.7 percent of estimated total furniture and equipment
costs. The proposed loan would be disbursed against: 30 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported and 100 percent of ex-factory costs for locally manufactured
equipment and furniture; 85 percent of expenditures for locally procured but
foreign-manufactured equipment and furniture; 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, and 80 percent of local expenditures for consultant services;
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fellowships.
57.      Records and Audits.  The three Ministries involved in the proposed
project (MOA, MOE and MOPF) would maintain separate accounts for budgets and
expenditures under the project, which would be audited by the Directorate of
Financial Control at MOPF, whose procedures are satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these accounts would be



- 20 -
audited annually, and that certified copies of these accounts, together with
audit reports, would be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of the Government fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (c) and
(d)).
58.      Benefits and Risks.  The proposed project would:  (i)  provide the
agricultural sector education and training institutions with an increased
number of better qualified teaching staff, and the public and private agencies
of the sector with a higher calibre of middle and higher level technicians and
specialists, including extension agents; (ii) ensure the efficient
dissemination of modern technical knowledge and skills to local farming
communities; (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of DERV,
particularly with regard to planning and policy formulation for human
resources development in the agricultural sector; (iv) assist the Government
with formulation and design of an investment strategy and projects for
improvement of the education and training of technicians in the industrial and
related commercial sectors; (v) expand the infrastructure and quality content
of primary teachers training; and (vi) reduce recurrent costs in the
agricultural education and training system. The only risk that the project
may face is related to the inexperience of DERV in implementing a project of
such magnitude. The Director of the Project Implementation Unit within MOA
has a solid experience in similar development projectsl this Unit is
adequately staffed, and priority attention will be given to the proper
financial management of the project by the more experienced planning and
administrative and financial divisions of MOA, thus minimizing this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of Annex III.
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
November 30, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL            163.6                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      75.2                                MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 230.0       380.0    1310.0                1253.6                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     165.2       289.7     589.9                713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0       5127.0   6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0        43.5      51.7                 47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       25.8        31.3      37.9                 35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     60.7        72.9      82.4                420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.4        46.2      41.4                 44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        50.0      54.9                 52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.2         3.8       3.7                  3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.9/c     2.1                  2.8                      2.4
URBAN                              3.2         3.8       3.9                  4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.9         41.8      34.9                 41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0         14.6       9.2                  12.2                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.2       2.6                  2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        29.2     180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         10.0      21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        96.0     132.0                100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.2        88.2     115.1/d               108.5                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.8        56.6      75.17d                71.9                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.9        13.5      22.771                18.0                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.1        24.5       9.8                 15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.1         54.2      60.2                  56.9                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                     158.9       131.3      90.0                104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        49.0      70.0/e                59.1                    65.6
URBAN                               ..          ..      63.071                83.1                    78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.07;i              39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        62.0        ..                    ..                    59.3
URBAN                               ..       100.0        ..                    ..                    75.3
RURAL                               ..        34.0      60.0/e                  ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1      5934.0    3576.2               4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..       727.5    1167.8               1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            405.2       409.1     463.7                641.7                    477.4
URBAN                            277.3/f     302.8    340.7/e               538.3                    679.8
RURAL                           1040.97?    1269.3    1275.871             2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        24.1      25.0/e                25.5                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1
URBAN                               ..         5.1        *
RURAL                                          5 .1  g
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2 /S
URBAN                               ..         2.77       .
RURAL                               ..         3.67        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        24.0 /g     ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0        100.0     102.0                   88.7                     104.3
MALE                  88.0        121.0      119.0                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                43.0         80.0       85.0                  72.5                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0      25.0                   39.7                      41.3
MALE                  19.0         33.0       31.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0       19.0                  29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  23.5           11.1       35.0                  10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.1         47.5      39.2                   34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                          '-.8          27.8      20.4                   23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0/    62.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.5         13.0      18.3/                  17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.3         75.7      94.8                  131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1         14.1                             44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0      43.8                   31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..        1.5/d                 1.7                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1137.9       1214.8    1631.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.0          7.7       8.3                   10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0         50.0      34.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         21.0      33.0                   27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7       25.7                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  50.2         44.2       46.5                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6        4.3                   5.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          2.1        1.8                   1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..       17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..       42.07..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        6.07.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      15.07.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     204.0/d                279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      97.O7T                178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     193.0jd                403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      193.O7T               285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      20.0/d                 22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..      15. d7                 30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
/f 1962; /j 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
DEFINIIONS  F SOC INDICTUItSPage    3   of   6
dan;cIhctIt  Iata ate draws Em. court.. deosra -1   odged the m-tatnttct  and reliable, it should ale- oe noted tht  heynatxheIer
nainll   opaal  because of the  a-  of etendardia-d definitions end --ncpts aced by difinnt countries in collectig the data.  IThedaa  renne
tha...  ..stc  tode-tnit  o-dar  of    nt..idate-red., ond oh-r-ctatt    certai  eajnr dfftnfnrane  troseenctutttrcaa
Th.  eferncegrooa ae (1  th  teecocary  roopof  t  nufec  coutryaid (2) a c-uan   group nith taseeftt hIgt.h-      reitoete  the conty grcup
the nub Ito country  eacept fo    "High Incme   iii Exprters  groP s.tar  'Middit Inco     forth, Afric  an:.d riddl  fast   is .
aoci-nuiurallfiociee.  It checeferac.grop data the   - . toeragne at   pausno    eighidaihmtcmn  fnreah indicato  and sh.e  ony  be
cne too i--asn is- amen  the coutry sd re .fernce gr.,Pe..
AkAd(i.ih-os.od sql)..                                                                           lponlut ton rer Ifetitd- total.rtn  aid natal - Popalar on(toal
Total - T       irfc   re   opising land arts sad inlandears  1979 data.                         ora,  n  rrl) i ditOd by  ri  orpcct                -aber us hospital nde
Artuli- ro-     Ef- Et ac   of tiucta  ae  Iad temporaily orpateanaiy                             -nalabslot pubicand PriLe_ Ietit    p.cialiasd hna:pdrl elndi re-
for croPs, pastre,  -mnie  ano kitchen gsroea on to lie fa11on; 1979 data.                    hailitarn    etr.d ia  atar  entahlluheat.  pemaet i   tae
b'y a.las  oephystolen.  Eistbllxhe-r  prooiding Principeliycs'
"tP PER CA1071 (Ut)) - OgP per tipita e-tisre   attret-o1rprt                    a-                dIel tar  ar  nns loludad.  Ocrl hsita.coee,Iluehlt
ciltied  ty ae    oterio  sthnd as World ln    ta   i7-.0hif;1960.                               an   eia   errtn    emnnl   tfedb     hscs   ht hy a
1970  .an  1980 dat.                                                                              dnlessas   ue,mdie  eo.   htxfrI-u  atacs
atlon sad pen-ida aIliited  -sge  f rad-ica  fn       -isre     m       stasi-
ENEHGY CONSUMfPTION yPE  CAPITA - -.-Ia to -iPtiot ai   --riul enegy (tool                         t"' ayse   na oPitals include oHae priint Ip/ge.....l hnsplr-la,
-inc Ito  infilgs  of coleqlaeoIe.cpt;.9I    17.an   99                                         centers     I-. Oella-ld hoepirals are  L Icldnoony1udrttl
date.                                                                                          nila -n   e  Inaricof ted - IneaI ot.bte  noam  iont  or dtec arg-c
from hnaplsolm  dioldad by tha toe   f beds.
rOPULITIogOtt AN ITAL. STATEISTICS
Total P-nulslon  Kid-fear (thboaaads( -        Iaf July 1; 19960, 1970. and 1960            HOUSINGf
Ira   nnlco                - stntf  oa) - datto of arbas to total poultn                    Ibtabadcosit  of adroa  of itdRilul  a'ba sha   litLng q-aror
differet  dfiIto    o  uha  a"a  may aftet onm.a.saility of data                               n  rhair manmse        are   nlde   a   rryotb   niddIn
amngcootia;1960. l97.  and 1961 date,                                                          th  des id fr   sisici puroe.
yP.,., nI  ya  20  - Carret popnlatlou projection   are base.d on 1900                        bar of parseepar inn  in all1_1t .rba. and4 trur   occupiedcotelai
totalpopatrn   by age end  -a  aa  cheap motality.andbfsmLIiiyr-ses.                     deeluug.111  respeetiely.  HexiLage ecrlude  o-enaet  tutures andd
Irnel  and femal  life especcary etbifining at 77.5 yrar.  Thpro                            C,neriamai dsello n.'itheecrciyA lining quartar                      ecentage
ma ferb   frnti1iny rate also he H   hthre  len-le  -aaing danlinai                      ftnl   ea,adros dneIllingerePsi.i.eLy
frtiInacorit  to incoe  lotel and p-a  family planai.g peeomna
itc  contr  iucha  aaignd  na  f cesanfx  cobinciae  f rartulity       IIAlf
and Intility  Inads fn  pno)eciao puocees.                         Adfoetd tor lilant  aatios
tIbn bitr rate La eq.al so  hb. death rte,. and also the age ar-ct-p  n-                       Ino n   f all a gee at  ha primary le-e  as pen-etagse orePaco
Iaia .. n..tan.  Trhia is  tbisoed only oftee fetilIty rsces decILns to                        primay_sno-age~&  ,pnplmtin-; normall  -itclou     tild.en dgad A-li
necirsed on the basic of the prnJettrd chaprcer.iecios of the popuanio                        itac  e-n ppcl  ore beln or abort the official a-hnL age.
to th. year 2000. sad te rsts If daclie of fertility rate f ttrplan-                         etandarn school -  nrl. rain ai  female   Compotad as.6. an          ..l.seonday
Ynarutat lonay tonolotaa I. ermahd - The ynar nh-n saionary popalantot                          prondeegnrl   ottoa.o  tf.   r Etot-ing  ns  ucLan   Ion papit.
~~i..  i1i b. --hd.                                                     ... ~~~~~~~~~~sully of 12 no 1 y.aun  of-ae-orepndnecors  ar  gnra
Potclaiion De..aito                                                                                _nnideo.
Pennt Ie.-Hld-ynr-           cncnPsrmnar  tl--et(lHOhetar                   If              toc-titnl...     tmetratenfa.....darn              V-ntoio...t  -tnsirc-...
Itota  orna  196d. 1970 and 1079 deta.                                                      itilade   ebncl -t.indnni    o   tter ptgrams nhich opertet tedaped-
P.r so  e. seiotvlland - CoWnnsd se abon  fnI aniu Ianl  sd                                   enl   ra   satet   fsnnaylattios
only  100,  970aud1979 deta. .t-erbes -M                                                                .   Prisaty, sad e-nodary- Total  std- asnr oledi
PonlatonAgeisrnnre  neren) -ibtdrs 1-lAyer.)  nabig-ae l-primay aid aeodury lanale divided by rae.  fteb-r   n  t
ha yeore. and rtfi red (At year  and II as perteatotgus of mid-y.ar pop.-                      corepodiglewIs.
lattn; 160.  970.ama  080data,                                                      Adult Litsraay rts (nprc..r I - Li terre adults (abla ic read aad erite
PoouIceIroat rat  Ieret) - tat-l - dAnai-  gro,th rtes. of s-ta  mid-                         asaPercentage of total edult popalation aged 15 yetaadoe
PtnolattIn Ir-et  Rate (perostl9- oban - Ox9aai gr-en  r-ies of te1,a popa-                 ClftONtPTIOfI
otIons fcr 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-00.                                                   Cssre   ars (par thoosand papulation) - Poe..tg.  car -         omt ia  mtor
Crde 3li   at        ohnad  - conual lice births Par thoucand of mid-year                      oars seatiglee  tban eid .gbt pereone; e..nltdae asb.lan , hearses andd
Pny,aIoo2  196. 170.   d190  daahiiar   eals
IC-oc leash ine (nor tho..ss.o) - Anoos  deaths per rhoosad  of mid-yase                      Hadie Ot-irere (ertosnd  -nnlason   - All cyp-s ofrnrer  for duoc
ppacn;1960, 1970,an  190  dsra.                                                         brnsdcamn. agaanst.     paIl  ptr thoceand of popalatian; nclude  at-
Rrpstaprdacnion B,cr-An-rsg  numbe ro  amughntrsa na  s1Ii bea  In                            licataadrenerse  in nusiaaddi  ar  rbnrglonrat in of radio
cer  orel cprauttne  erid if she.tefne   reetaeeel  cer                                  ses   naIe            sahtrcntMyer.raynthbopa-bir  inos
ciityIortw   .ulptt-ncanse  stOma Lc C960. 1970,  i   90                                       os   onre   blas  lic-neIn.g
FlmIly P)annnl  -ltetreA-         us  rolad I  -Aotoua  tttor of acce~p tor                  Tb.1. Oscnirsr   (rtbo-esd rrlrof TV r.i.iiers cotorndnott
famil ,pla   T:lo     Isae(acr   f xsrnied Pn-n) - eceta If marie                         in  -naariae and toyar  abe  rai.r. lo  of TO esta as. tt affect.
errn  iRotild-batga    1.1   er)nnaabirrb-c..oRimnl                        -vt meicetoOpernr  iclsin  tribohmad ro iainol  - tiers the anrge ci-
all na,rrand anaa in nsaag  group.                                                            olairf"daiydrri                  ntetHsre",dfine  sea  eridic
pu     ..aic dnted primerly to reniggeea  tens....     It it tonsid....
FOOD AttD NOTITIdrN                                                                               to ha "detlyt if i   pmr  atiot  ontmea.a
Indo. fF.    dPrdcno  ner int(1A-iOi-loeofencrsanul                                           Cen        uaAttendance see  artia ne year - ..aad on the nasba  of
praxdotlon of all fond -t"d icee    Prcdnciarelda  ssedan  feca and                           rc.t..  solid dirigis 0.Year. iarludiag adisions..  to drio-in cinm.-
Is.o  c-ladap Year            "_  ..... T irrec.e         ...s~ gede (e.g.  -ug.nna.e         add  ab ila units.
insedd.      nat   hc   r   dIbead c-nsanact=enta  (a..g. caff.. add
te  unto ldd).Aggagcspndctn  nf each counry it bae ..              n dLAdn foIfE
cattnl  neeg  yndge  'rcs-igt;961A-A5. 1970. and 1900 data.                           TtlLnryrefhuad)-tcoolal   ciaproa   old
Par~ iafat snrni o,fcnee(nere-   f..enolrnmate  - Compat..d from                                are  force, and anepleyed          hiseoldnghuticro, atdant.  etc..
enegy equitalet of or  (and nPpllee Ia-iloble in neucery par n.pita                            cnaidg papalatlen of siLme.tfiniine   In. -uro-  -euetr     are
prr day.  nA-ilabls euppyl ie  -oariasdmsrcpedo n  isrta. lees                                tot -reasrbla;L1960, IOP  and 1990 'da'ta.
nno .ad1 changs.  in stork.  Hnt e-ppltas snoode anma  teed. eeede,                      Fe.aIs (earn-t)-.Pes   aorfacea   pscetags of totl labar f-.ra.
Qlniia   ed to Ladprawug  endtosa  in di ..ribatina.Pqisaa-                            Anri-lular  lpernete) - Lbefote i  farmig. ferety, hanging and
a nra nere necimed by PAO bemed orpbyetIlaIcal. nedstr tota   anihlaig as psraefsgs of tecai labar fares; 1060. 1970 and 1900 data.
city and health cons.idering  enrneltsmPe..ruar.d bady esgte, .gs                             Indoe-y (meSn) - fabe  ferns is  dIng   a-nntte  srfcten
haneebaldfen;         i-    190sd1977dat.                                                       1960., l190 and 1980 dana
Pe iooh   ..I,l of snoenit (nm   erdy) - Protin ...nent of part .pita                     Parsiccetin  bate..      oe)-ttl   l,an   eaaPriinlno
tet spply of food par daV.  9   aupply of fond ie defined  e aba-n.  I.-                       actinityrsrsssrsc-wansd  a  total, male, and tamale lbo  fern..w
-nranafo l,cI            treetaalis1ieo  by Oi  prooids f-er           -                        -  .. .iimpra .ae  of  -tota   sale ad, female ~ popuatio  of alt sger... rnsy
r                                        "~~~~~~~alcens   f~0graofintal: prten   s  day sed 2ll gra   o  aI L-xn             1960, 1970. and 199  data--. Tie      -r ba...d en  Ids. psetic ipaia  rstee
roles prnnain. of aiinh 13 gras  coid he soi-IPreen_             hes  stnd                   rfletiung age-snetrantur   f tbe ptpnoaien a.         d  Ind  t ime tred,  A
ard  are   ea  than thne. of 75 grm  of tonal pntwiL  aid 20 Sre-n of                         fet  eiae  ats from inEra   sans
ansa  pni   a  aanrga I, fcr , the 1 nl..proposed by PAO in thThird                Ecno tcflrsdea  Ratio  -  nao   apoeteune                     ad  tadae
OrdPe.   are;llA. 1970 and lP   snt  the total Lala  f-c..
Perc,It, prattle tatyfop        nsladn         aPoansly y'nl  fend dn
_od fc_  metals and Pule   ngssprday;1901At  1970 aId 1907 dats.                         INCOfME DISTRIgnTION
Child (agne 1-49 loth tt (re .abnead)_- oucl deaths Per thnue..ad It                            eraa of Prin-sa Ino-  Ebob Ln ..eb add k ind) - Rec.ined hy richest
agegrop I. yars  toctlire  in rhia  8 age .t.P,fo  -nt  evlo              -gcc-        5 P-rcant  riches  20 P...e.. pooes  20 Peren, and po-e-  40 peren
cries date dented  fon  life tlad    1960, 1970 and 198f data,                                of ho:ae.lda.
ciA.hiT                                                                                       POoERTY TARGET GROUPS
~ifs foPeorcY or Birth (tas       nrage tudar of yanre oi lIfe  -ranring                      fTh. fo1lloeugnnnm  te   r   eY aPpr"' "mas  tesreofp ryeea
at tirtb;196,  19(0  19    190  ao.anneud  elaeprertd   th-needarabls  atin
Icfor  onLlty Rat   tar ituo...nd) - Aetul ow...h. of Infants underta  pn-                 Eaisetd Ab-l     Pvet  Inn.- iLne1 (00 pa capita)  -urn- and rut_I 
od a Pef   chocadnd lire hirtha; It960. 1970 end 1900 data                                               ..a..e par, inc-m   bowl is that tnm  leelhlos suc1h' a         -nma
Acuruct aft ater(rereni  f roulacont-otti, uranL aiddcra         Our               tattlion_ly  adaqant  diet plus ... asetlal ._i co-ed cqlrsi    sct
na-erepply (locluIdairtt-ed surf-ac  naer  or~ un .trea   abat onPesoae                       amoe  aaiaPnrn    nonlni(t                          aia  -ubnand  -ur1 
-as-rach as cht Erie protece   o ee,uene   n   aiar   al)a                                      ia   eaiapneyindm   aa   aoenbrdo   nrg   e   apt
percntafe ofccerreeeciie poulaion. InaL        rbantraaapublic                      pn-cnl iLcoa of the cnnr            urban lan.I is deemed fro  the r-rl
f..urtan cr nand.paiLoctdco   Iethan 200 rater   Ir               h.u.. say he                Iroe  aith adjostant for higher noat of liotginuba   raa
otnaid-red ua  inn   smuth rasnbicce  of- that tones.  In roralurt                          lEctra-d Pnnosonticeohn                Poverty an-n Lec.l (nercent(- urban
reaststlaccee .oId lmply thtteh-erf   rasb                  ftehueod                     ad rcrl-7reta   tuain(nhsadrrl   t   r  'ohuolu-
do cot cane to toenoaccsyrtrotrtonata  part o~~f bs oap  in fetching the          poor
aideateeserbyoospbanesyioe  r  ha ues of pit pntaad  ita-
ycrusein rr PysiIan- ypnoilo   dittded by vuee  of p-aciaing physt-                                                          Economic and Social lass Dtiniond
cae qoa2i!ified from   ssdoa  echno  at  ni-erelcy lsnel.                                                                    =onmooay-i  add PaJet-inne  hapart-a
Ptuain  e-aaigPro -= Pnuindinided hy oue  of P..ctiaing                                                                                    May 1902
malend femal  grdnaauea.asitn  nar-s. prmtical Iaree and



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population; 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  31,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                              (at 1980 prices)
(million US3                          Actual                                              Projected
Indicator                     at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979        1980   1981         1982    1983       1984    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOU'NTS
Gross domestic product /1               8,224.0            5.3      7.1      7.1       6.0    5.0         3.8       7.3       6.0     5.8      5.6      5.3
Agriculture                          1,111.2          -10.2      4.5    -4.8        6.1    9.0         -4.3    11.5        4.0      3.9      3.7      3.5
Industry                             2,663.6            9.8      9.0    11.9        9.9    2.1          3.9      7.5       7.3      7.0      6.7      6.4
Services                             3,329.3            5.6      7.4      8.7       3.9    6.4          6.5      6.3       6.1      5.9      5.7      5.5
Consumption                             6,350.7          10.4       5.8     4.6       9.9    7.0          7.0      4.1       7.4      6.3      4.1      5.3
Crosn investment                        2,539.5           6.9    12.9        3.9      5.8    9.2         -5.0      8.8       1.1      1.0      1.8      3.1
Exports of goods and NFS                3,475.1            5.5     8.2    23.3         0.7    2.0         4.4      8.3       6.9      8.0    13.4       9.2
Imports of goods and NFS               4,141.4           16.7      9.6    14.3        7.2    8.4          4.0      3.5       6.2      5.8      7.8      6.9
Gross national product                  8,292.8            5.8     7.9      7.5       6.5    5.2          3.6      7.2       5.9      5.5      S.3      5.2
Gross national savings                  1,942.1          -7.2    14.8    21.8        -7.2   -0.8        -19.4    17.8       -2.0      0.5      7.9      4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                             76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
Exchange rate                                             2.33    2.40    2.46        2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)                                        Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                                  (at constant prices)
1971       1976       1981       1986       1987       1991             1971-76    1976-81      1981-86    1982-87        1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0               8.8         6.1          5.7         6.0          4.9
Agriculture               18.8       18.1        13.5       13.0       12.7       12.1               8.2         0.7         3.6          5.3 /2       3.5
Industry                  20.6       25.9       32.4        32.4       32.7       33.7             10.2          8.5         6.5         7.0           5.8
Services                  47.7       42.9        40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9               8.3         6.4         6.1          5.9          5.1
Consumption                    82.0       77.5       77.2       78.1       78.0       74.5               9.6         7.5          5.8         5.4          4.0
Gross investment               20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6       24.1       23.8              14.1          7.7         1.4         3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8          29.1       42.3       44.1       45.3       46.5               5.6         7.6          8.2         9.0          6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8          37.1       50.4       46.8       47.5       44.7              13.1        11.2          5.5         6.0          4.0
Gross national product         99.6       98.7      100.8       99.6       99.4       99.1               8.5         6.6          5.5         5.8          4.9
Net factor income              -0.4       -1.3        0.8       -0.4       -0.6       -0.9                -            -           -           -            -
Gross national savings         17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0       17.9       20.6               2.9         3.6          0.2         5.5          8.0
As Z of GDP
(at current prices)
1971i      1976       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                 21.4       24.2        30.0
Current expenditure                                             18.9       18.5       22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                       2.5        5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                              6.9       11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                                3.2        1.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-81          1981-86          1982-87         1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                             8.4              6.6              5.5             5.8              4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                  5.4              4.0             2.8              3.1              2.2
ICOR                                                            2.7              5.5              5.2             4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                          24.0             25.2            20.6             23.0             30.2
Import elasticity                                               1.51             1.84            0.96             1.0              0.82
/I  GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2  This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-term projections for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP II-C
July 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population; 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                    (at 1980 Prices)
(million US4                              Actual                                              Projected
Indicator                 at current prices)
1981               1977    1978    1979    1980    1981              1982      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports               2,434.2               9.7      9.6    20.7      0.8      3.7             3.6      8.8     6.7      8.2    16.0      8.4
Crude oil                       1,249.7              12.4    12.8    12.4       0.2    -5.0              1.1     2.7    -1.8       1.8    -0.1      3.7
Other primary                     125.8               4.9   -15.7    25.1   -11.9    -3.3               11.6      8.7     8.8      9.0     8.9      7.7
Manufactures                    1,058.7               6.8    10.4    33.3       3.6    16.3              5.3    14.9    14.3    13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Merchandise imports               3,801.5               14.1    10.7    15.7      7.7      9.5             3.7      3.0     6.0      5.6      7.8     7.1
Food                              421.4               9.6      7.7    39.6    -6.8       9.4             2.9      1.1     2.7      5.3     5.0    -4.8
Petroleum                         756.6              13.8    15.1       9.7    13.5    13.9             18.5      0.6    11.3      8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipment           979.5               5.5    15.4    -2.6    -4.4    32.9               -7.1    -1.0    -0.7       0.0     0.0      7.7
Others                          1,644.0              21.6      6.5    24.9    15.3    -2.3               4.4     6.7      7.9      7.1     5.6      5.9
Price Index                                          Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                   54.8    58.7    75.5   100.0   118.6              117.4   122.5   131.6   141.8   152.0   163.5
Import price index                                   72.6    76.6    85.3   100.0   116.8              127.4   135.6   147.6   160.2   172.2   184.3
Terms of trade index                                 75.5    76.6    88.5   100.0   101.5               92.1    90.3    89.2    88.5    88.3    88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                              Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                       (nt constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987    1991               1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87        1986-9 1
Exports                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   4.1         8.7        8.6          9.6         5.2
Crude oil                          24.5    40.9    53.7    36.3    35.2    30.7                  4.6         6.3         0.7         1.3         -0.1
Other primary                      19.2    13.4      5.2      5.6      5.5     5.5              -5.4        -1.2         9.4         8.6          5.8
Manufactures                       56.3    45.7    41.1    58.1    59.3    63.7                  6.4        13.6        14.9        16.2          7.7
Imports                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  13.1       11.5         5.2         5.9          3.9
Food                               21.2    12.3    11.1    11.0       9.8      6.8               0.6        10.9         3.4         1.8         -5.3
Petroleum                           3.9    11.1    19.9    22.9    24.9    31.0                 29.2        13.2        11.8        10.9          8.6
Machinery and Equipment            30.1    31.9    25.8    17.9    17.9    13.2                 13.5        10.5        -1.8         1.2         -1.0
Others                             44.8    44.7    43.2    48.2    47.4    49.0                 10.6        12.9         6.3         6.6          4.8
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with                      Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)            Developing Countries (x)             Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970     1975      1980             1970      1975     1980                   1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                   62.6     48.6       n.a.            23.4      41.4       n.a.                 14.0    10.0       n.a.
Imports                                  62.9      67.1       n.a.            33.7      25.7      n.a.                   3.4      7.2     n.a.
/1 Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/2 Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BA*liCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS at current prices)
Population: 6.5 million (id-1981)
GNP per Capita: S1,420 (1981)
Actual 11                                                   Projected
1971       1976       1979        1980       1981              1982       1983       1986       1987        1991
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                     -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.6    -607.5                 -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods & services                       469.4    1,479.5    3,137.5   3,912.3   3,902.4              4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
Imports of goods & services                       526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.9   4,509.9                5,054.9   5,C73.5   8,574.4  9,812.1    14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                      52.0       52.7       61.0       100.0       36.4              32.4       32.4       24.3       24.0        24.0
Current account balance                              -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.6    -571.1                 -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                            27.6       102.6       50.9       236.0      354.6            400.0       300.0      400.0    400.0         500.0
MLT loans (net)                                       55.3      167.9       494.2      323.9      188.0            502.0       651.0      916.3  1,010.9         994.7
Official                                           59.2      130.4       198.5       270.9      262.2            434.4      416.1       423.6    476.1         690.0
Private                                            -3.9        37.5      295.7        53.0     -74.2              67.6       234.9      492.7     534.8        304.7
Other capital                                         13.7       55.1    -126.2    -122.4         134.2                -          -           -         -
Change in reserves                                  -91.2        38.7    -123.9        -64.9    -105.7                 -       -90.2    -169.2   -169.2         -260.0
International reserves                              114.8       304.5      415.5       455.7      568.6            568.6       658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6        2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                          2.6        2.2         1.6        1.4        1.6               1.4        1.4         1.5       1.5          1.7
Actual /1                                                    Pro jected
1971      1976       1979        1980      1981              1982        1983       1986        1987       1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       35.5       50.2        50.7       41.5      26.3               32.4       32.4       24.3        24.0       24.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                    105.2       229.5      643.8       535.1    514.9              842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1    1,689.7    2,247.1
Concessional                                         61.0       104.0      154.5       217.5    284.1              343.8       326.2      284.4       309.2      427.2
Bilateral                                          52.8       95.1       153.7      197.3    277.6               256.6       264.6      238.6      255.2       337.6
IDA                                                 4.8         8.9        0.2         1.0       0.6               1.0          -          -           -          -
Other multilateral                                  3.4         0.0        0.6        19.2       5.9              86.2        61.6       45.7        54.0       89.6
Non-concessional                                      44.2      125.5       489.3      317.6    230.8              499.1       722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5    1,819.9
Private                                            28.8        60.1      377.6       191.4    117.3              294.2      475.6       801.5      918.7   1,080.7
Official export credits                             3.2         9.9       42.6        52.5      36.3              76.2        96.3      214.5       268.5      522.3
IBRD                                               12.2        25.3       55.4        51.1      53.5              83.6      123.2       195.1      159.9       173.0
Other multilateral                                   -         30.2       13.7        22.6      23.7              49.1        27.1       29.6        33.4       43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                      619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4    3,188.8  3,370.7                4,024.2   4,675.3    7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                          440.0      971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3                2,769.0    3,185.2   4,423.2   4,899.3    7,422.2
IBRD                                             39.3      127.9       232.0      269.0    303.8               345.3      426.6       725.8      811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                              21.1       64.1        67.3       67.9      67.9               68.9       68.1        65.3       64.1        58.2
Other                                           379.6      779.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6                2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                           179.5       194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4               1,255.2    1,490.1    2,937.7   3,472.5   5,18Q.6
Undisbursed debt                                     352.5   1,109.5    1,694.6   1,685.5  1,170.6                1,539.9    1,515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                           69.8       98.6       308.8      432.7    547.6              567.6       642.4       991.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                           19.9       36.9       159.2      221.5    220.7               226.6      245.0       422.6      499.2       184.9
Payments as 1 exports                                 14.9        6.7         9.8       10.9      13.9               13.8       13.7        13.4       13.8       14.9
Paymeots as I GNP                                     4.1          2.2       4.3         5.1       6.6                6.1        5.9         6.1        6.3        6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (X)                 4.9        5.4         7.1        7.1       6.7                7.2        8.0         8.2        7.3         7.4
Official                                            4.6         4.3        5.6         6.2        -                  -          -          -           -          -
Private                                             6.1         7.9        9.8        11.2        -                  -          -          -           -          -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)                 23.3       16.6       15.8        17.3      19.6               16.7       15.2       14.5        14.9       15.0
Official                                           26.2        20.4       19.4        19.1        -                  -          -          -           -          -
Private                                            13.8         8.6        9.2         9.4        -
As 7 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Amortization due within 5 years                                                36.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                               64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (7.
Interest due within first year                                                  4.5
/L Preliminary estimates for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1992



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1i
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982) 1/
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount kless
Credit                                                                                                    Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                       purpose                              Bank       IDA c/  Undisbursed
Thirty-one Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                    249.85      69.96
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation                  12.20                   2.39
1088         1975      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Sewerage                             28.00                    1.45
1155         1975      Republic of Tunisia            Third Education                             8.t0                   4.14
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                            28.00                  15.18
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                    12.00                   1.45
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                     42.00                  12.27
1445         1977      SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                        21.00                   7.88
1504         1977     BDET                            Development Finance Company                30.00                   2.81
1505         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development            5.00                   1.75
1601         1978     Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)               32.00                  23.47
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Sewerage                      26.50                  21.21
1702         1979      SONEDE                         Fifth Water Supply                         25.00                   5.78
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Development                   19.00                   16.00
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                           28.50                  24.25
1796         1980      Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation                        25.00                  24.03
1797         1980     Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                    42.50                  16.41
1841         1980      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Highways                            36.5U                  35.46
1864         1980      Societd Tunisienne de
l'Electricitd et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline                37.00                  26.84
1885         1980     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                     30.00                  28.i9
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                           26.00                  25.97
1969         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                  30.00
1997         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Northwest Rural Development                24.00                  24.0U
2003         1981      Socidtd Tunisienne de
l'Electrtcit4 et du Gaz        Third Power                                41.50                  41.47
2005         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Health and Population                      12.50                  12.5U
2012         1981      Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                     18.60                   17.09
2052         1981      Republic of Tunisia             Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                  42.00
2108 a!      1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)                35.50                  35.5U
2113 a/      1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.5U                      30.50
2134         1982      SONEDE                          Sixth Water Supply                        30.50                  30.50
2157 a/      1982      Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    22.00                  22.00
2197 b/      1982      Republic of Tunisia            Technical Assistance                        4.50                   4.50
TOTAL                                                                  1,056.25      69.96      587.05
Of which has been repaid                                                 110.21       t.91
Total now outstanding                                                    946.04      63.05
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid              13.18                                1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA c/                                        944.89      63.05
Total Undisbursed                                                        587.05                 587.05
1/ A $25 million loan for a Third Urban Development Project is scheduled for Board presentation on December 16, 1982.
a/ Not yet effective
b/ Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
c/ Prior to exchange rate adjustement



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of September 30, 1982) a/
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                      Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                    Fertilizers             2.0    1.5       3.5
1966     Socidtd Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.        8.0    2.2      10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Societe Touristique            Tourism                 1.6    0.3        1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et            Tourism                 2.5    0.6       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques           Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                           Dev. Finance Co.                1.2      1.2
Total Gross Commitments                              14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                   9.3    1.8       11.1
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                 4.8    5.8       10.6
.held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                     0.0    0.0        0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 (but has not yet signed) a
$38.3 million loan package to COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent
is from IFC's own account.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, lack of on-farm development, and poor water
management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities
was less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not
built because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was
to construct and manage it. About $0.5 million of funds allocated for
credit are expected not to be used and to be cancelled after the Closing
Date. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses is
encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project is now completed. Its major achievement is the
cleaning up of the Lake of Tunis where, before the project, more than half
of the sewage collected in Tunis was discharged with little or no
treatment. Under this project, the sewer system in the central area of
Tunis has been recalibrated, one existing treatment plant was rehabilitated
and extended, and two additional treatment plants were erected. In
addition, a canal along the northern bank of the Lake has been dug and
collects today all stormwater and sewage which used to overflow under heavy
rains. The major benefits of the project are the improvement of the
environment and of the sanitary situation of Tunis, and the related release
of land around the Lake which is now developed by a governmental agency.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. As a result, the Bank loan was decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6
million, to cover the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily according to the
revised schedule, with a slight delay of about three months in construction
works.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed.   The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced, although a short extension of the Closing
Date will be required to complete works on Lot 5, whose contractors went
bankrupt. Alternative arrangements for these works have been agreed. The
Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of
expropriation will not be undertaken as part of the project. All studies
under the project have been completed and their results are being
implemented. A loan balance, due to appreciation of the dollar since loan
approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 89 percent of the loan amount is disbursed. Subloans to
commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors are fully disbursed.
Subloans to small and medium farmers are fully committed and expected to be
fully disbursed by the Loan's Closing Date. Disbursements for subloans to
farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm plantations have
begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and
plantation is also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six
associations. However, drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three
associations is suffering some delays, and the category may not be fully
disbursed before the Closing Date.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. A 6 km
section was commissioned in June 1981, and a second section of 34 additional
km is expected to be commissioned in 1983, in time for the reinforcement in
the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak consumption period.
Works on the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is
scheduled to start during the current cropping season. Works on the Medjez
el Bab perimeter of 3,800 ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are
expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been
awarded; the anticipated completion date is end-1983. The irrigation
component is experiencing important cost overruns, but because of
Government's willingness to take action, no financing difficulties are
foreseen.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness; January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in 1983.
Ln. 1504/1505; Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date; December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries. A Government request to expand the project to cover three
additional provinces has been approved.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing according to schedule.
Thirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
US$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to US$20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plant have been invited.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
should be completed in mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already
in operation.
Ln. 1705.       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The civil works are advancing well in Sfax and less satifactorily
in Tunis. Problems related to site acquisition were recently solved and
efforts are being taken to reduce cost overruns in core housing
construction. About 40% of the civil works are completed. The solid waste
component is still at a standstill due to managerial problems at the
District of Tunis. The technical assistance and studies are advancing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway and
bid awards for boat engines have been made. Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works
superstructure at three new ports is underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982. Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy has not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. The study on workshops
reorganization and maintenance procedures is conducted by a group of
consultants (local and foreign) to which the contract was awarded.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders have been awarded for
civil works. Road maintenance equipment is being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Eftectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for medium and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-industries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives and commercial farmers. However,
because Government funds are also available for similar purposes to farmers
and agro-industries under other programs which, unlike the Bank-financed
program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected level.
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness; November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed, all but one package being retendered. The Government executing
agency (OTTEEFP) has already reviewed proposals on the technical assistance
to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and programs of the network
of vocational centers, and has retained and approved one of the proposals.
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. No commitments to
date.
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network, and improving the
supply of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005.       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln. 2012;       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under Bank loan have recently been commissioned
and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance is progressing
satisfactorily. Financial performance of the primary beneficiary of the
Bank loan (SOGITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and has not yet
been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting consulting
engineers. Procurement by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for
construction of silo railway sidings is underway. Consultants for technical
assistance in management and finance have been recruited by OC.
Ln. 2108:        Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14, 1982;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: December 13, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided. Measures
to create a Project Coordinating committee are being taken.
Ln. 2113:        Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
December 13, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will
provide a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and
mechanical industries and for general purpose lending to industry in
Tunisia. The remainder of this loan will be used by the Tunisian Government
to provide technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and
Quality Control for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on
effective protection.
Loan 2134:       Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Thirteen subprojects
that would be implemented in 30 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$1.24 million have been placed for three
of the subprojects, and works on two of the contracts have started. Bidding
for civil works for the remaining subprojects is under way.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. 2157:       Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness:
January 6, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies for the $55.1 million project, the Medjerda Valley
Development Agency and the Nebhana Development Agency, expect to increase
the production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. Some 7,800 farmers from the two areas will benefit from the
improvements to be made under the project. The project will also provide
farm access roads, fruit and vegetable processing centers, cold stores and
milk collection centers.
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Pro ject; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: January 28, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance in identifying and
preparing investment projects and formulating policies for Tunisia's
agriculture, industry and energy sectors. The capabilities of the
institutions involved in these sectors will be improved, and assistance in
the start-up of a new agricultural promotion agency will be provided.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:              10 months (June 1981 to March 1982)
(b)  The agencies which prepared          Ministry of Agriculture
the project:                         Ministry of Education
Ministry of Planning and Finance
(c) Project first identified
by the Bank.                         February 1981
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:  March 1982
(e)  Negotiations.                        November 1982
(f) Planned date of loan
effectiveness;                       April 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The employment by June 1, 1983, of a Director for the National
Agricultural Instructor Training Center, satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 46).
(b) The appraisal and approval by MOA of the firms and farms prior to
their eligibility for receiving agricultural secondary school
students for off-campus training (para. 48).
(c) The appointment by September 30, 1983, in each agricultural secondary
school, of a staff member satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise the
on-the-job training programs (para. 48);
(d) The designation, by June 30, 1983, of a Coordinator and the
establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Committee to review progress in
the implementation of the studies on technicians education and
training systems (para. 51); and
(e) The submission, for review by the Bank, of the list of fellowship
candidates with the details of their training programs by December
31, 1984 (para. 52).



IERD 16786
9.                             oi                               ii'           NOVEMBER 1982
TUNISIA
FIFTH  EDUCATION  PROJECT/-,8tzerte
A     New Primary Teacher Training Colleges
Equipment to Existing Agricultural Secondory Schools               I1
-37                                                                       Mater                                                                        37'-
l!i  Equipment to Existing Higher Level Agricultural Institutes
Fl  Equipment to Existing Agricultural Training Center          >       -   '               NlS1I2
A Equipment to Existing National Agric,lItural                   ,"-~
Instructor Training Center (SidiTaet               Bejo bt                                        -      nzel Bouzelfr
7Mjez El Bob    \A.
a   Prov,ncia' Capitals        ..        Bou S[lem\
Salt Lakes          .     oO  Jendoub0 Thibor                                                '   Nabeul
Ports                        Ghrdm mou                                           Zoghouan
*   International Airports
-  -Provincial Boundaries                             /
International Boundores (        LJ ElKef    fl
Sers0<  Siliano
-36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 36'-
/                           )              /i                             '- .
j   a               ,                     \       SoUs>,   ~~~~~~~~~~~Monoshlr
(           "'w.       X          ,,                Ka,roucn      \
V                                LI              I                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mahdia
Ul   2   Kasserine3      /i S/a
2.S,di Bouzid
LI                  g                   // Sfax
Gafsa                                              -
r,j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-34'                                                                                                                                                    34 - 
Tozeur  0 Degachre                                         -Gabes
-  - ,  j    5,r,,  ,                     EJ''^+?Hourst-Souk
Mareth            B   Grr
t  \                                               f                                          g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iou Grorc
Medenme
F RANCE              - .   YUGOSLAV A                                                 I                                                      /   33'
_   -              33'iA                                         T-               <;Totoouine          <               )    33
SPAIN              --               AN3AYAii
GREECE                                               6
T.- ~     ~          ~         ~           -
k UNISIA    MTA                                                     KILOMETERS
- -                                              0 -  A  20    40     60     30    oCI
ALLOG E RRA  A                                                 T rv,s,hhSn,  b- ...b...Hd by M. W.oeouoxawovuxrsotaorck o ,hnv.0
!   L 1 3 Y A-.                                          9     of 000A oeoltoyy cy my,do oe,0Ot py   o    L I B  Y  A
is'



