Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4153-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 29, 1982
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR .      .................................  1
A.    Socio-Economic and Sector Background .1
B.  Education and Training Issues.                                     2
MOE Related Issues .3 -
MOA Related Issuess.                                          5
C. Government Strategy.                                                8
D.  Bank Lending for Education.                                        9
II. THE PROJECT ............... 11
A.  Project Objectives and Scope .11
B.  Project Description .13
Bureau of Agricultural Education Studies and Planning. 13
National Agricultural Instructor Training Center .14
Higher Level Agricultural Institutions .15
Agrictultural Secondary Schools .15
Agricultural Training Centers .16
Primary Teacher Training Colleges .17
Studies of Technician Education and Training Systems.. 18
Technical Assistance .19
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .................................. 20
A. Project Costs .20
Basis of cost estimates .21
Contingency allowance .22
Foreign exchange component .22
B. Project Financing .22
Recurrent costs .23
C. Procurement .23
Disbursements .23
D.    Accounts, Auditing and Reporting Requirements .24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tunisia in
March 1982. The mission members were A. Zhiri, General Educator (Mission
Leader), M. Wilson (Education Planner), M. Mahmoud (Architect), J. Quintero
(Agricultural Educator), and N. McEvers (Economist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .........      .................... 25
A.    Organization and Administration.                            2
B.  Implementation ..............                                 25
C.    Design and Supervision of Civil Works.                      2
D. Sites ... &                                                    25
E. Equipment Lists.                                               25
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................... 26
A.    Benefits .    ...................................... 26
B.    Risks ..........         ............................ 26
VYI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............ .................. 27
ANNEXES
A.    Charts
1. Structure of the Education and Training System
2.  (a) Implementation Schedule for the Agricultural Education
Component
(b) Implementation Schedule for the Four Primary Teacher
Training Colleges
(c) Implementation Schedule for Planning and Technician
Education/Training Studies
B.    Tables
1.  Comparative EducatLon Indicators
2. Five-Year Plan; Selected Education Targets
3. Primary School Teachers: Projected Demand and Supply 1982-199Y
4. Fifth Education Project Institutions' Recurrent Expenditures,
1982-1991
5. Primary Teacher Training Colleges: Unit Cost and Gross Area
Per Student Place
6. Summary of Estimated Project Cost
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                       *
MAP'



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CGlossary
ATC            Agricultural Training Center
AS             Assistant Engineer
AT             Assistant Technician
CE             Chief Engineer
DERV           "Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et de la
Vulgarisation" (Directorate of Education, Research and
Extension)
Ecole de Base  The Nine-Year System of Basic Education
EEC            European Economic Community
ENI            "Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs" (Primary Teacher
Training College)
ESIAT          "Ecole Superieure des Industries Alimentaires de Tunis"
(Higher Level Institute of Food Industries of Tunis)
NAITC          National Agricultural Instructor Training Center
HLAI           Higher Level Agricultural Institution
INAT           "Institut National d'Agriculture de Tunis" (National
Agricultural Institute of Tunis)
ITM            "Initiation aux Travaux Manuels" (Introduction to
Practical Work)
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOHE           Ministry of Higher Education
MOPF           Ministry of Planning and Finance
Office         Office of Vocational Training and Employment
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PTTC           Primary Teacher Training College
VTC            Vocational Training Center



%                                                                                                                                                                                   a



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data 1/
1.        Population (estimate 1981)
Total                                               6.57 million
Rate of growth (1975-80)                            2.67O p.a.
Rural population as 7. of total                    48.17.
GNP per capita (current prices 1981)               US$1,420
2.        Labor Force and Employment (estimate 1980)
Agriculture, Fishery and Forestry                  551,700   35.0O
Mining and Energy                                   46,70U      3.07.
Manufacturing                                      299,900   19.07.
Construction                                       158,100    10.07.
Services                                           248,200   15.77.
Administration                                     213,200    13.5%
Other                                               59,100    3.87.
Total Employment                                 1,576,900
1/ Reflects revised figures appearing in the Government's Sixth Development
Plan.



Basic Data (Continued)
3.   Education and Training (1981/82)
Level           Grades    Enrollments    As % ot Age Group        % Female
MOE and MOHE:
Primary          1- 6      1,080,036              lO   2/             42
Secondary       7-13         306,301              30                   37
of which:
Vocational    7- 9          63,288                                   32
Technical    10-13          19,486                                   26
(industrial/
commercial)
Higher          14-18         32,832              N.A.                 N.A.
Agriculture (MOA);
Secondary       7- 9           2,708
10-13            640
Post-Secondary 14-18           1,032
Vocational Training (Office);
VTC (Est.)       7- 9          7,200
Apprenticeship  7- 8          18,000
Adult Literacy Rate (1980):  Urban 65%; Rural 38%
4.   Public Expenditure on Education and Training (MOE and MOHE only)
1979        1952 (est.)
(Million DT)
(a)  Total MOE/MOHE Recurrent Expenditures  139.0               241.3
(b)  Total Central Government Recurrent
ExpeiUiL LUL CO                        o01.9           l,072.0
(a) as a % of (b)                       23.1              22.5
(c)  Total i vEiYiOHE Capital Expenditures     27.1              49.0
(d) Total Central Government Capital
Expenditures                           308.3             467.0
(c) as a % of (d)                        8.8              10.5
(e) Total MOE/MOHE Recurrent and Capital
Expenditures                           166.1             290.3
(f) Total Central Government Recurrent
and Capital Expenditures               910.2           1,539.0
(e) as a % of (f)                       18.2              19.0
(g)  GDP (current prices)                   2,935.0           4,607.0
(h)  Total MOE/MOHE Expendlitures
as a % of GDP                            5.7              6.3
2/ Includes overaged students.



Basic Data (Continued)
5.  Monetary Unit
Tunisian Dinar Rate (1982); US$1.00 = 0.56 DT
6.   Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
7.   School Year
September to June



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Socio-Economic and Sector Background
1.01     Tunisia has made considerable economic and social gains over the past
decade and stands amongst the top third of less developed countries with a per
capita GNP of US$1,420 (1981). Over the decade GNP growth has been surpassed
in the region only by that of the capital surplus oil exporting countries and,
in the North African sub-region, that of Algeria and Libya. Due to liberal
policies emphasizing export promotion and allowing for more private
initiative, the country's GDP rose in constant prices by 8.0% annually during
1969-80, compared to 4% during the 1960's. In agriculture, stronger efforts
to promote individual farming, together with favorable weather conditions,
resulted in a near doubling of production, a remarkable turn-around from the
continuous decline of the 1960's. Manufacturing grew rapidly and tourism was
promoted with marked success. There was also a comparatively rapid
development of social infrastructure, especially the education and training
system.
1.02     Tunisia's population (6.57 million in mid 1981) is now calculated to
be growing at a high average of 2.6% per annum. Emigration prospects which
mitigated some of the worst effects of rapid population growth are not as
healthy as they were and, for instance, European demand is expected to be
negligible over coming years. The apparent reluctance of trained Tunisians to
seek employment in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States is reinforced by
competition from South Asian personnel willing to work for lower salaries.
Migration to Libya is subject to the political vicissitudes of inter-state
relations. Rapid population growth affects both employment and schooling.
With total working age population increasing at a hign 3.4% per annum, and a
growing share of that population (particularly females) seeking salaried
employment, the number of new jobs would have to increase by around 4% per
annum to absorb all new job seekers which is a difficult target to achieve
(para. 1.03). Again, total school enrollments are expected to grow by 4.6%
per annum during 1982-91, in contrast to 2% per annum over the past decade,
the Government will have to provide inter alia sufficient, qualified teachers
and other necessary inputs to consolidate gains already achieved especially in
primary schooling. These last considerations, respecting education and
training, have been incorporated into measures programmed under the Sixth
National Development Plan (1982-86) (paras. 1.21-1.23).
1.03     The Sixth Plan seeks to promote structural adjustment to the
post-hydrocarbon era and to sustain a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1%, depending on agricultural performance. The Plan calls for a variety
of measures including accelerating growth of the non-oil, directly productive
sectors, and raising their labor intensities in order to alleviate growth in
unemployment (employment creation is targeted at a 4% annual growth rate to
result in 300,000 new jobs). The Plan also aims at improving the quality and
matching the content of training with needs for trained manpower in those
sectors which have been assigned priority for investment, such as
agriculture. Agriculture, which accounts for a high 35% of the Tunisian
workforce, receives about 20% of the Sixth Plan investment (compared to 13%
allocated under the Fifth Plan). Agricultural strategy aims at increasing
output by 5.0% annually in constant 1980 prices (compared with 3.6% per annum



in 1972 prices achieved during 1972-81), towards the ends of reducing import
dependency, gaining food self-sufficiency, and boosting exports of high
quality products to Mediterranean, Western European and Middle Eastern markets
in which Tunisia must maintain and enhance its competitive position. The Plan
Review by the Bank endorses these objectives.
1.04     Tunisia has progressed remarkably since independence in establishing
an education infrastructure quantitatively commensurate with national needs.
By 1981/82, gross enrollment ratios stood at 100% for primary and 30% for
secondary schooling, female participation rates were 42% in primary and 37% in
secondary, and Tunisianization of teaching staff was 100% in primary, 84% in
secondary and 81% in tertiary, rates which compare favorably with those of
other countries in the region. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible
for formal education and training which include primary (six grades), lower
level general and vocational secondary (three grades), and upper level general
and technical secondary (four grades). Higher education under the Ministry of
Higher Education (MOHE) is provided by the University of Tunis and a number of
specialized institutions. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has succeeded in
setting up an agricultural education and training infrastructure which, given
revisions now underway in its offering and content (para. 1.23), will cover
the country's needs. Agricultural education suffers, however, from inadequate
instructional resources and from insufficient tailoring of courses and
graduates' profiles to changing needs. Improvement of instruction and
improved planning are, therefore, priorities.
1.05     Quantitative progress in education development has not been matched
by qualitative improvements (paras. 1.08-1.12).  Moreover, laudable earlier
attempts aimed at overcoming outmoded pedagogy, an insufficient supply of
qualified teachers, inadequate standards of didactic material and
chronological retardation have had only a limited success in reducing high
rates of grade repetition and dropouts, especially in primary schooling (Annex
B, Table 2). In a fresh effort in the previous plan (1977-81), the MOE has
with more success; (a) introduced practical subjects to provide primary
school pupils in grades 5 and 6 with prevocational exposure; (b) grafted onto
the school system compensatory arrangements such as an extension of the
primary school cycle to grades 7 and 8 in order to give prospective school
leavers vocational preparation; and (c) sought to reorient secondary school
enrollments towards vocational courses (first cycle) and technical studies
(upper cycle), and to shift university enrollments towards science and
technology (Annex B, Table 2).
B. Education and Training Issues
1.06     These, as they relate to general schooling and the agricultural
sector, are discussed below. However, management and planning constraints
represent one key issue common to both.
1.07     The education and training sub-systems require effective managerial
direction and the application of modern management and administrative
techniques/pratices at all levels especially as the scale and complexity of
their operations grow. The absence of coordination between sectoral agencies
responsible for education and training activities is widespread (despite ad
hoc inter-agency committees set up for this purpose); units within the same
agency fail to coordinate and even at times to communicate with one another.



On the other hand, implementing educati'-).al `I?forms of the kind contemplated
in Tunisia is a complex task requiring s,:-ong iLw,ititutional :i--angements and a
higher than present calibre of personnel trained in educational
administration.  Managerial problers of education/training require an in-depth
investigation leading to a master plan of action for institutional
development. The planned studies of technician level training (para. 2.25)
will pay close attention to the managerial and administrative implications of
a rationalization of programs at this level.
MOE Related Issues
1.08     These relate to internal and external efficiency, teacher training
and education finance. Low internal efficiency of the primary scnools is
reflected in high dropout and repeater rates, which reached an estimated 27%
and 50%, respectively, in grade 6 in 1981. The Government is concerned about
the continued low completion rates in the system; 62% at primary level, 77%
in lower secondary, and 48% of upper secondary general receiving the
baccalaureat. The flow of students leaving without formal qualifications
amounts to over 100,000 per year (80% from the primary level). The main
problem at this level is the quality of teaching. Thus, one of its main
strategies to increase internal efficiency is the improvement and expansion of
training programs to replace substitute untrained teachers, the latter often
recruited from among unsuccessful secondary graduates or leavers who often
lack the dedication and a sufficient base of general education to ensure
continuity and quality of service. Poorer regions tend to suffer in the
provision of teachers, the more qualified and experienced teachers preferring
posts in the urban areas.  Consequently, government pol c,y is now to recruit
and train primary teachers within the disadvantaged areas.
1.09     The Government envisages improvements in the internal efficiency of
primary schooling through reductions in class size and the introduction of
quasi-automatic grade promotion. Average class size was lowered from 37 in
1979/80 to 34 in 1981/82; it is to be gradually reduced to 30 pupils per class
under the "Ecole de Base" (the nine-year system). However, during the Fifth
Plan period, similar reductions in size and in pupil-teacher ratios yielded no
improvement in recorded rates of internal efficiency. The experiment with
quasi-automatic grade promotion that was carried out during the Fourth Plan
period led to a high concentration of repetition in the sixth year (the end of
the primary program) and had no positive impact either on student learning or
on attrition (which increased especially in the fifth year). Because of
budgetary constraints, this measure was not accompanied by vital complementary
measures, e.g., appropriate pedagogical methods, in-service teacher training,
remedial classes and supplies of better didactic materials. The Government is
reconsidering this policy and will experiment with modest increases in class
size, investing the annual savings that result in textbooks and more qualified
teachers. Promising strategies to reduce grade repetition and to limit
"dropping out" could then be tested and evaluated during the first stage of
the "Ecole de Base" installation (1984/85-1986/87).
1.10     Primary Teacher Supply.  An immediate and urgent issue is the
shortage of qualified primary school teachers. The Government plans to expand
primary teacher training to ensure an adequate supply of qualified teachers to
meet the shortages of grade 1-6 teachers and of the subject teachers for



-4-
grades 7-9 who will be required to implement the "Ecole de Base" (Annex B,
Table 3). Enrollments in primary education (grades 1-6) have increased from
957,000 in 1976/77 to 1,080,036 in 1981/82, and are expected to reach
1,350,800 in 1986/87 and 1,673,000 in 1994/95. Therefore, an additional
13,600 primary school teachers should be trained during the next five years to
meet the additional annual increase in enrollment and for the replacement of
teachers. Since 1977, the low numbers of qualified teachers produced by the
six existing Primary Teacher Training Colleges has led to heterogeneous
recruitment often directly from among the ranks of secondary school graduates
or leavers without pedagogical training. Consequently, the quality of primary
education has suffered.  The current Development Plan clearly recognizes this,
and stresses recruitment of teachers who have a solid secondary education plus
theoretical and practical pedagogical training. This proposed project
addresses this issue. In the meantime, a transition plan for the training of
10,000 required teachers has been prepared by the Government and reviewed by
the Bank and will become effective as of October 1983 (para. 2.22). The
remaining 3,600 will be trained in the existing teacher colleges.
1.11     External Efficiency.  The shift of emphasis from general to more
practical technical and scientific studies at the secondary level is
fundamental to the process of growth and modernization. Specific vocational
courses in a formal school setting are usually not effective. Courses risk
being out-of-step with changing employment needs, because schools are not in
contact with the world of work. This problem already exists in the MOE's
lower secondary vocational courses and in its upper secondary technical
schools ("lyc6es techniques") whose graduates have faced difficulties in
finding employment in recent years. This situation has arisen largely due
to: (a) the lack of contact between the schools and employers, leading to
inadequate knowledge of labor market needs; and (b) courses that are too
job-specific and/or given to students who have neither the general education
base which enhances. eventual re-training, nor the maturity to exercise
occupational choice. Specific vocationally-oriented courses (for skilled
workers) would in the future be given outside the formal school in contexts
more in touch with the work place. For technicians, training would be given
in post-secondary technical institutions or specialized institutes on the
basis of solid general scientific aLnd technical studies acquired in secondary
school. Consequently, studies related to needs for technician level training
for the productive sectors are required to identify the principal types of
training and their place in the educational structure. The proposed project
would support the studies (para. 2.25).
1.12     MOE Finance.  During the past decade, the annual increase in total
school enrollments at all levels averaged about 2.0% (less than in previous
decades). While the burden of education expenditure has declined somewhat,
from 8.7% of GDP in 1970 to 6.0% in 1979, it is still heavy. The share of
total government outlays absorbed by education and training also declined in
that period from 27.0% to 17.0%. Towards the end of the decade, however, the
pace of enrollment growth quickened due in large measure to the expanded
progression of pupils upward from the primary through the secondary and
tertiary levels of schooling. Total enrollments are now expected to grow by
4.6% per annum during 1982-91. Enrollment growth, combined with the practice
of granting generous teacher salary raises under pressure from the unions,
could raise education and training's share of GDP to 8% by 1986, exceeding
200% of total government expenditure. The educational reform and
decentralization and equalization of educational opportunity/quality between
regions will also impose additional costs. Consequently, the Government is



exploring measures to use resources more economically (e.g., improved school
location planning and utilization ef plant and teachers, and reduction of unit
construction costs) based on results of the studies carried out with technical
assistance financed under the Bank's third education project. Also under
current examination by the Government are the possibilities of introducing
school fees at all levels, fixed according to ability to pay, and of reducing
university scholarship recipients from 80% to 60% of the student body.
MOA Related Issues
1.13     These issues relate to manpower needs and sources of technically
trained personnel in agriculture.
1.14     Manpower Needs.  The past decade has witnessed the emergence of
structural diversification in agricultural production, increasing crop
specialization, and growing technical sophistication in farming methods and
applications, processes that will continue to characterize Tunisia's
agricultural production during the next two decades. In consequence, there
will continue to be mounting demands for technically specialized, trained
manpower. In the school year 1981/82, Tunisia's agricultural training centers
and schools could accept only 43.0% (11,662) of all the technicians, farmers
and skilled workers who applied for specially tailored short courses ("stages
a la carte") including ad hoc refresher training. Completion rates for these
courses, on the other hand, tend to be high: 80-90%. Much of this effective
demand has stemmed from local farmers' desires to acquire new crop
techniques. As for the public sector agencies, they are experiencing
shortages in their technical services of middle-level agricultural technicians
who are specialized in areas such as irrigation works and hydrology, irrigated
crop farming, agricultural mechanics, rural engineering and animal husbandry.
These specialists are needed to back-up local extension agents and ensure
effective linkages between agricultural research, extension and the
cooperative and private farming communities.
1.15     Except for those trained for the food processing industry, graduates
of formal agricultural secondary and tertiary education are employed largely
by the public sector, e.g., the MOA, the autonomous agencies (the "Offices")
and the para-statal enterprises, The MOA's estimation of annual needs for
agricultural technicians is based on the Government's financial capability to
employ as reflected in their annual "loi des cadres"--the rule that governs
the maximum establishment size of public sector agencies. Due to the lack of
adequate labor force and manpower data on the agricultural sector, the
Government has been handicapped in adjusting the capacity of agricultural
training and extension and, hence, the financial parameters of the "loi des
cadres" to the demands of agricultural production. This lacuna, however, will
be remedied once the Bureau of Agricultural Education Studies and Planning,
established under the proposed project within the MOA's Directorate of
Education, Research and Extension (DERV) implements the required surveys and
studies (para. 2.04).
1.16     The Government intends to reorganize and strengthen its agricultural
extension and research services starting 1985, based on the work of the Bureau
and on the findings of the feasibility studies to be financed under a Bank
technical assistance loan to Tunisia (President's Report No. P-3306-TUN of
August 26, 1982).  While more precise estimates of trained manpower and its
deployment must await the outcome of these studies, a recent employers' survey



-6-
of the public sector requirements for the Sixth Plan period, based on projects
programmed under the Plan, reveals a demand for 5,440 technicians. In
contrast, estimated effective demand under the "loi des cadres" amounts to
3,260 for the Sixth Plan period. Sixth Plan policy decisions also encompass
redeployment of the existing extension agents, establishment of 200
consolidated extension units or "Cellules Territoriales de Vulgarisation
(CTVs)," and staffing of CTVs with agents who are selected on the basis of
aptitude testing and trained in extension methodology. Overall demand,
therefore, would be greater than the annual estimated requirements under the
"loi des cadres" for agricultural technicians as summarized below (Table 1);
Table 1: REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC SECTOR AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIANS
(1982-91) a/
Annual           Annual Average
Average           Output from           Manpower
Requirements          System               Balances
High-level technicians
Veterinarians                        4 0                 40
Chief engineers                      60                  25                   (-35)
Public works engineers              12 0                120                   _
Subtotal                          220                 185                    -35
Middle-level technicians
Assistant engineers                 190                 145                   (-45)
Assistant technicians               235                 195                   (-40)
Subtotal                         425                  340                   (-85)
TOTAL                             645                 525                  (-120)
a/  SOURCE:  MOA/Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs data, and
mission estimates of MOA recurrent finances and "Loi des cadres"
requirements. Estimates exclude forestry and fishery services.
1.17      Sources of Trained Manpower.  The existing four agricultural
secondary schools produce an average of 75 assistant technicians (ATs) per
annum. These will be supplemented by approximately 120 graduates of the
agricultural training centers (ATCs), making a total of 195 ATs. The ATCs
offer a three-year program, some of whose graduates (120) take special courses
("stages") in the secondary schools to upgrade them to qualify as ATs
specializing in agricultural machinery, rural engineering and irrigated crop
farming. Requirements for assistant engineers (AEs) and for high-level



technicians will be met by the Higher Level Agricultural Institutes (HLAIs).
However, a shortfall in field supervisory personnel in the chief engineer (CE)
category is likely. These engineers are trained at the National Institute of
Agronomy of Tunis (Institut National d'Agriculture de Tunis--INAT). INAT's
program of studies has been revised to enable this HLAI to devote itself
exclusively to the training of CEs in a six-year course. Finally, for skilled
workers the ATCs are to produce an average annual output from their three-year
programs of roughly 830.   ATC graduates who opt for employment in the private
sector will be placed there by the Office of Vocational Training and
Employment (hereafter referred to as the Office) under contractual
arrangements ("Contrat- Formation-Emploi") between the Office and employers.
Such arrangements, heretofore made only with private industrial and commercial
enterprises, have now been extended to agricultural employers; they provide an
initial year of on-the-job training as a preparation for permanent employment.
1.18     At present, however, as identified by the Bank/Unesco subsector study
of agricultural education and training (1980), there are serious qualitative
deficiencies which are addressed by this project. They are; (a) the poor
quality of instruction and/of training programs; (b) the insufficient number
of qualified agricultural teachers/ instructors; (c) the lack of effective
linkages between agricultural research, extension, and the cooperative and
private farming communities; and (d) failure to monitor changing needs through
manpower and educational analysis and planning.  Consequently, the Government
proposes to give priority to qualitative improvement of the existing training
establishments. To this end, it is taking measures which include;
(a) improved curricula; (b) upgraded qualifications of teaching staff;
(c) better management of school farms and facilities; and (d) remedy of
current deficiencies in farming and didactic equipment.
1.19     The quality of teaching and training will be improved to enable the
HLAIs, Agricultural Secondary Schools and ATCs to meet needs for technical
personnel specialized in areas such as irrigation works and hydrology,
irrigated crop farming, agricultural mechanics, rural engineering/maintenance,
and animal husbandry. These subject-matter specialists are vitally needed to
back-up the cadres of existing extension agents and thereby ensure operative
linkages between research, extension and the private, including cooperative,
farming community. New programs are also needed to furnish the technical and
extension services with qualified field supervisory personnel.  These
objectives require significant upgrading of the instructional staff of the
agricultural education/training system. Consequently, of the present total
figure of more than 500 permanent agricultural teachers/instructors,
in-service training will be organized for about 24% a year. In addition,
about 300 rural, primary school teachers of "ITM" prevocational subjects in
agriculture (grades 7, 8 and 9) will be trained per year on behalf of the MOE
during the Sixth Plan.
1.20     Recurrent costs of agricultural education and training have tended to
be high (15.7% of total MOA estimated recurrent outlays in 1982), due to the
operating expenses of school farms which are nevertheless an essential
component of the practical studies. Existing regulations preclude the use of
school farm revenues to offset school operating costs. However, the MOA
intends to specify measures designed to make budgetary procedures more
flexible, permitting the proceeds from the sale of produce to meet the cost of
input factors. Initially, this measure would be applied to all of the



-8-
proposed project institutions (paira. 2.04). Other measures to rationalize
agricultural schooling costs are expected to lower its burden progressively to
about 12.3% and 8.0% of the MOA's recurrent outlays in 1986 and 1991,
respectively (thereby freeing resources for the improvement of agricultural
extension and research). These other measures includez (a) a consolidation
and streamlining of agricultural secondary schools whose number has been
reduced from 7 to 4 in 1981/82, with enrollments stabilizing at around 450 by
1986; (b) a gradual phasing out of some of the ATCs (and their conversion to
other uses such as research and experimentation) causing their full-time
enrollments to drop from 2,700 (1982) to 1,650 (1990); and (c) an increase in
the numbers of trainees in short, intensive practical courses ("a la carte")
whose numbers, based on full-time equivalency, would rise between 1982 and
1990 from 9.5% to 60.0% of the clientele served in secondary schools, and from
50% to 60% of the clientele served in ATCs. This expansion of "a la carte"
training will boost the rate of capacity utilization from 70% to over 80% by
1990 in secondary schools and will maintain full utilization of ATC capacity.
C. Government Strategy
1.21     In the context of the Sixth Plan a major structural reform is being
launched to enhance the quality and external efficiency of education while
maintaining qtantitative and equity targets in previous plans.  The reform in
relation to s "'ooling aims to improve quality by ensuring mastery and
retention of -1eracy and numeracy skills through a longer period of schooling
(nine years :aiseaa of six years), thus giving students a better base
("trainability") for further education and training. Specifically, the
reform, beginning in 1984, would retain an average of 33,000 pupils per annum
in school--who would otherwise leave the system--for an additional three years
of education. However, the successful transformation of the six-year cycle
into a nine-year will depend on well-defined strategies at the school level to
attain improved efficiency. Such measures are still on the drawing board.
Consequently, the reform will be introduced gradually through a pilot phase
which emphasizes systematic evaluation and allows for adjustments to be made
as necessary. The planning and development of new secondary schooling
structures and content will be carefully orchestrated in coordination with the
introduction of the "Ecole de Base". Planning of the secondary level reform
will address curricula, and appropriate changes in the mix, the quantity and
quality of school inputs, books and materials for students and teaching aids
for teachers). It will also focus on the training and retraining of school
administrators to implement improved management of the school system.
1.22     The reform will address "'quality" issues also by continued expansion
of prevocational primary school courses ("ITM") and grades 7 and 8
post-primary programs, and continued orientation of secondary school students
to vocational and technical programs of study (allocating 15% of the 136,000
new student places to be created to these programs) and of university students
to science and technology together with development of scientific and
technological research capacity in higher education. It also envisages
expansion and quality improvement of formal and non-formal trade training
programs sponsored by the Office to disadvantaged regions. All vocational
training infrastructure would be converted to short course and on-the-job
skill training under the Office (and linked by contract to employing
enterprises), and would give trade/commercial training to all dropouts/school
le8vers of the "Ecole de Base".  Diplomas would be awarded to all completers



-9-
of the full course of studies in primary and in secondary schools, while
progression from the former to the latter (planned at the present rate of 45%
of primary school graduates) would be controlled by a competitive entrance
examination, and flows to the three types of colleges would be adjusted
according to projected manpower needs.
1.23     The reform, in relation to agricultural education, aims, inter alia,
at a continued introduction of technological innovation into the production
process, refinement and diffusion of innovations already in place, extension
of physical infrastructure (particularly water conveyance and irrigation
works), more intensive cultivation for higher crop yields, expansion of animal
husbandry, greater research efforts reoriented to precise needs of the
farmers, decentralization of the Government's technical and extension services
and an upgrading in the levels of their technician personnel. To stimulate
private initiative, the Government plans to advance measures already
instituted, such as distribution of state lands to graduates of agricultural
training centers and schools, and the expansion of the Agency for Agricultural
Investment Promotion (APIA) which provides credit and technical assistance to
enable trained young people to set themselves up as independent farmers.
Agricultural development will depend increasingly upon the availability of
skilled and technical manpower who are appropriately trained. In response to
this requirement, the Government has initiated a reform of agricultural
education/training which has heretofore unduly emphasized formal vocational
schooling: formal secondary level enrollments are being reduced, and short
course training expanded to meet specific technical needs of farmers, while
greater priority is being placed on producing senior technicians. Overall,
the Sixth Plan strategy will generate requirements for a more highly qualified
pool of manpower and a wider variety of applicable skills in the productive
sectors.
D. Bank Lending for Education
1.24     Bank lending for education in Tunisia (two credits and two loans) has
supported the Government's objectives respecting the quality of primary and
secondary schooling, teacher training, the employability of school leavers,
and formal and non-formal trade training for skilled workers in response to
labor market demands. The first project (Credit 29-TUN, US$5.0 million in
FY63) financed four new secondary schools, the expansion of another and an
extension to a teachers' college for training lower secondary teachers. This
project was implemented satisfactorily and completed in February 1967. The
second project (Credit 94-TUN, US$13.0 million in FY67) financed nine new
secondary schools, expansion of six existing secondary schools and equipment
for 16 secondary schools; savings, accrued from favorable contract prices,
financed workshop equipment for an additional 11 secondary schools as well as
technical assistance to develop educational planning. The Project Performance
Audit Report on this project (No. 2226 of September 29, 1978) found that it
was aligned with Tunisia's secondary education priorities, but that a still
greater vocational emphasis was needed. Physical implementation of the second
project was satisfactory.



- 10 -
1.25     The third project (Loar '.155-TUN, US$8.9 million in FY76) helped with
the introduction of practical work ("ITM") into grades 5 and 6, and associated
teacher training, and with an experimental grade 7 and 8 program (para.
3.01). After the loan became effective, the Government decided to extend the
post-primary scheme to the entire system as resources would permit rather than
limit it to an experimental run. The project was amended in March 1979, to
adapt it to extension of the scheme rather than experimentation. The revised
project provided workshops for 325 primary schools, the expansion and/or
equipping of seven Primary Teacher Training Colleges (ENIs) to train practical
teachers for the workshops, and technical assistance for planning studies
addressed inter alia to development of the "Ecole de Base" and to the
relationship between education/training and employment. Implementation has
been generally satisfactory and the project funds are now 100% committed. The
project is expected to be completed by the current closing date of March 31,
1983.
1.26     The fourth project (Loan 1961-TUN, US$26.0 million in FY81) aims
specifically at helping Tunisia carry out her strategy for developing formal
and non-formal trade training. It: provides the "Office" with seven new
vocational training centers (VTCs) and one new apprentice center, expansion
and/or equipping of 17 existing VTCs and 3 existing apprentice centers, and
related technical assistance to reinforce planning and coordination
activities. Its implementation, which benefits from a competent Project
Implementation Unit, is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.27     The proposed fifth education project (a loan of US$27.0 million)
addressed the Government's Sixth Plan strategies for agricultural education
and training (paras. 1.17 to 1.19), and for primary schooling (para. 1.24).
More specifically, the project will support: (a) the MOA in its plans for
streamlining and strengthening agricultural education and training to meet
rising demands for technically trained manpower, through provision of
technical assistance and equipment; (b) the MOE in its expansion of training
facilities for primary school teachers to ensure an adequate supply of
qualified personnel and to reduce the large number of unqualified teachers,
through construction and equipping of four new Primary Teacher Training
Colleges; and (c) the MOPF by financing technical assistance for preinvestment
studies related to prospective needs and appropriate modalities for technician
training for the industrial and allied commercial sectors.



- 1U -
II. THE PROJECT
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of a Bank preparation mission in October/November 1981. The
project was appraised in March 1982. It is estimated to cost US$40.7 million
inclusive of contingencies, for which a loan of US$27.0 million, including the
front-end fee, is proposed.
A. Project Objectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project is designed to support key Sixth Plan
objectives, viz. the provision of needed skills and of appropriately trained,
technical personnel to the Sixth Plan priority sectors of agriculture and
industry; and the expansion and improvement of primary teacher training.
Accordingly, the project would:
(a) assist the MOA in strengthening and developing its programs for the
dissemination of technical knowledge/ skills to local farming
communities and for the upgrading/refresher training of its technical
cadres including extension agents;
(b)   help to improve the quality of agricultural education/training so
that the MOA can staff its technical, research and extension services
with technicians and field supervisory personnel who are well
grounded in the techriical specializations that are now required for
agricultural development;
(c) endow the MOA with a capability for manpower and education analysis
and planning in the agricultural sector;
(d) provide urgently needed didactic and farm equipment to six existing
Higher Level Agricultural Institutes, four Agricultural Secondary
Schools, and fifteen Agricultural Training Centers, and technical
assistance and equipment to the newly created National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center and the Bureau of Agricultural Education
Studies and Planning;
(e) develop primary teacher training through the construction and
equipment of four new Primary Teacher Training Colleges in
disadvantaged regions, equipped to train grade 1-6 teachers; and
(f) assist in studies of technician level training for industry and
related commercial sectors through financing of technical assistance.
The project would consist of the following components:



- 12 -
Total     Estimated
Student   Annual
Grades          Places    Output
(a) Ministry of Agriculture:
Re-equipping and furnishing of.
(i) a Bureau of Agricultural
Education Studies and
Planning
(ii) a National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center          All levels
(NAITC)                           (in-service
training)           325       325
(iii) six Higher Level Agricultural
Institutions (HLAIs)                14-19                760      260
(iv) four Agricultural Secondary
Schools                             a) 10-13             500      196 1/
b) Short up-
grading
courses              -    13,208 2/
(v) fifteen Agricultural Training
Centers (ATC)                       a) 3-year       a)l,340       830
b) specialized
courses plus short
ad hoc courses b) n.a.   14,500 2./
(vi) Technical assistance for the
a) Bureau of Agricultural Educa-
tion Studies and Planning (a(i) above)              -
b) National Agricultural Instructor
Training Center (a(ii) above)    -
(b) Ministry of Education:
Construction, furniture and equipment for;
four Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (ENI)                      a) 10-14        1,000         900
b)    14        1,600       1,450
2,600      2,350
(c) Ministry of Planning and Finance/Ministry of Education:
Technical assistance for:
Studies related to future
industrial, commercial and
service technician training needs.                    -
1/  An additional average of about 65 graduates per annum, not included in
this figure, continue their studies in the Higher Level Institutions to
qualify as Assistant Engineers (para 2.14).
2/  Total nutput from all types of short courses ("a la carte") to be attained
by 1990.



- 13 -
B. Project Description
Bureau of Agricultural Education Studies and Planning
2.03     This proposed component would finance technical assistance, staff
training and equipment and materials (estimated at US$0.9 million, net of
contingencies) for the development of a recently established Bureau of
Agricultural Education Studies and Planning in the MOA's Directorate of
Education, Research and Extension (DERV) which would improve linkages between
formal education, research, extension, and continuing education in the
agricultural sector.
2.04     The Bureau would define quantitative and qualitative needs in the
sector for technical personnel, and would carry out studies to improve both
training activities and the reconciliation of resources with manpower/training
needs. It would closely coordinate its work with the MOA's Directorate of
Planning. The Bureau would be responsible for (a) analyses of agricultural
manpower stocks and future supply and demand, inclusive of profiles and
functions of all agriculture-related occupations; (b) determination of the
content and orientation of technical training of instructors at the National
Agricultural Instructor Training Center; and (c) evaluation of agricultural
education and training programs including follow-up studies of former
graduates and surveys of present and potential employers in the public and
private sectors, extension programs and school farm operations. Terms of
reference for the Bureau's initial program of studies have been formulated
jointly by the DERV, the Directorate of Planning and the Bank. Care has been
taken to contribute directly to the design of the national program of
agricultural research and extension, supported by the Bank under a technical
assistance loan (President's Report No. P-3306-TUN of August 26, 1982).
Specific studies to be financed under the project, include: development of a
sector/ occupational matrix of the current stock of agricultural technician
manpower; a detailed evaluation of the school farm operations (fermes
d'exploitation) including specification of measures designed to make budgetary
procedures more flexible, permitting the proceeds from the sale of produce to
meet the cost of input factors (inter alia, parts, maintenance, seeds,
fertilizers); an inventory of precise farm practice opportunities ("stages
pratiques") and the development of new monitoring and evaluation procedures;
and a feasibility study relative to the inclusion of rural pedagogy and
extension techniques in the secondary and higher agricultural schools. These
studies would be completed by December 1985. The MOA has agreed to finance
local costs of these studies from its five year plan allocations.
2.05     Qualified staff have already been appointed to the newly created
Bureau. They include the director, the deputy director and the heads of its
two major divisions (Statistics and Research/Planning). No difficulty is
expected in recruiting the remaining professional agriculturalists (about 10
in total) by the end of 1982. Two of these staff would be seconded from the
MOA's Directorate of Planning to ensure appropriate liaison. The Bureau will
require the assistance of 52 man/months of expert services: manpower
planning, education planning (applied to agricultural education and training),
extension techniques and survey and evaluation methodology. Furthermore, 30
man/months of fellowships would be provided for five trainees in manpower
planning, education planning and statistics, curriculum development, and
extension techniques. Total technical assistance costs are estimated at



- 14 -
US$0.6 million, net of contingencies. The Bank will be consulted on the
selection of specialists and fellows.
National Agricultural Instructor Training Center (NAITC)
2.06     To improve the quality of agricultural instructors, both in
pedagogical and technical matters, the proposed project would provide
financing for technical assistance, equipment, and furniture for a new
National Agricultural Instructor Training Center (NAITC). Costs are estimated
at US$1.0 million, net of contingencies. This Center would be located at Sidi
Thabet, in existing training center facilities, situated 16 km. north of
Tunis. The school has a physical facility well suited to the purpose of this
Center. There are also boarding facilities for 70 trainees.
2.07     The Center would have an annual output of 325 trainees (about 10%
women).  These trainees will be staff or newly recruited instructors of the
ATCs and the agricultural secondary schools. The training would consist of;
(i) full-time, in-service courses of one to two months in pedagogy and
teaching methods plus teaching practice at nearby schools for about 60
teachers per year; (ii) one year of full-time, pre-service training for about
15 new teachers per year, who would include assistant technicians, assistant
engineers, field engineers, and chief engineers, with special reference to
extension work; (iii) short, in-service courses of up to a week focussing on
new technical developments to be offered to about 60 teachers and instructors
per year (these courses will be offered at the regional level, utilizing the
Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs); and (iv) training and upgrading in
research and extension methodologies for about 200 extensionists per annum.
Other topics such as farm budgeting, project evaluation and new
crop/techniques would be offered on a demand basis.
2.08     The Government has agreed to appoint a director by June 1, 1983.  The
director will be responsible to the DERV's deputy director for technical
training and supervision. The Center's staff of 26 instructors will be drawn
from the agricultural services, with 13 assigned as full-time staff and 13 as
part-time specialists. They will have among their key functions.
(a) pedagogical supervision of new agricultural school instructors;
(b) organizing and implementing seminars in the ATCs; (c) evaluating and
developing different programs of agricultural training and education adapted
to the needs of the country; (d) developing, testing and producing didactic
materials and (v) training and upgrading instructors of the agricultural
secondary schools and the ATCs.
2.09     Under bilateral agreements with France, 12 full-time instructors will
receive training in agricultural teacher training techniques over four years.
2.10     The Center will require the additional assistance of 57 man/months of
expert services--agro-pedagogy and rural communication and extension practice
techniques, plus short-term consultancies in evaluation of training and
curriculum development; and 60 man/months of fellowships in curriculum
development, rural communication techniques, publications, audio-visual aids
(Annex A, Chart 2(c)). The terms of reference of the specialists, their work
programs and the related timetable have been prepared by the MOA and reviewed
by the Bank. The candidates and proposed programs of study for fellowships
will be subject to prior Bank review.



- 15 -
Higher Level Agricultural Institutions (HLAIs)
2.11     To help improve the quality of instruction and the type of training
offered at the HLAIs (para. 1.17), the project would finance additional
instructional equipment, materials and furniture (estimated at US$5.0 million,
net of contingencies) to support more modern and practice-oriented instruction
in the six principal institutions of higher agriculture education: (i) the
National Institute of Agronomy of Tunis (INAT) which prepares chief engineers
in a six-year university level program (para. 1.16); (ii) the HLAIs which
prepare agricultural engineers (irrigation and rural works, agricultural
machinery and related disciplines) at Medjez El-Bab and horticulturalists at
Chott-Mariem through a four-year, post-secondary program; and the specialized
institutes in Mateur (animal husbandry), in Kef (major crops), and in Tunis
(food industries) which prepare technicians in two- and four-year,
post-secondary programs. The additional equipment proposed would permit the
implementation of new and existing curricula which are now seriously
handicapped by lack of laboratory, civil engineering and farm equipment.
2.12     New courses to be introduced include pedagogy (INAT), extension
techniques (Chott Mariem), hydraulics, irrigation and drainage (Medjez El
Bab), and extensive crop cultivation techniques (Kef). Other course offerings
would be reinforced: plant protection and rural engineering (INAT),
horticulture (Chott Mariem) and animal husbandry (Mateur). Total enrollments
will be about 760 students (608 for the six- and four-year programs and 152
for the two-year program). The annual output will be about 260 (180 chief and
field engineers and 80 assistant engineers). Internal redistribution of
professors/instructors will help provide teaching staff for the newly
introduced and reinforced programs. In addition, the MOA has given assurances
that 35 of 75 post-graduates trained in key fields under a bilateral program
with USAID due to return during 1983-85 will be assigned to these project
HLAIs.
Agricultural Secondary Schools
2.13     This component would finance the re-equipping and refurnishing of the
country's four agricultural secondary schools (estimated at US$2.4 million,
net of contingencies) to assist in the qualitative improvement of technician
level and refresher upgrading programs. The institutions (grades 10-13) will
have a combined enrollment of about 450; they are located in; (a) Soukra at 8
km. of Tunis; (b) Boucherik in the North East; (c) Thibar at 1 km. outside the
town of Thibar in the North West; and (d) Sidi Bouzid in central Tunisia. The
first is for girls, and the other three for boys.
2.14     The MOA's five-year plan for those agricultural secondary schools
provides for a four-year program that includes: (i) a basic three-year course
(grades 10-12) of full-time study (70% theory and 30% practice); and (ii) an
additional year of supervised practical work and on-the-job training leading
to a diploma and qualification as assistant technician (AT) for employment in
the feed industry, food processing, animal pharmaceutical laboratories, MOA
extension work, farm machinery maintenance, etc. Alternatively, graduates may
enter preparatory courses in the same school that qualify them for a two-year
course (grades 14 and 15) in the HLAIs leading to a technician diploma and
qualification as assistant engineer (AE). About 50% of students complete the



- 16 -
basic course leading to the AT diploma and the remainder (about 45%) proceed
to the AE. The annual output of about 196 graduates (16% women) would
correspond to about 83% of the 1982-91 average annual public sector
requirements for assistant technicians (exclusive of fishery and forestry
services).
2.15     Whilst the program will continue to turn out needed middle level
technicians for the Government's agricultural services, provided it can be
properly equipped, these four project schools have also initiated important
programs of ad hoc refresher and upgrading courses ("stages pratiques") in
their local communities. These courses also suffer from inadequate farm and
didactic equipment at present. Adequately equipped, these four secondary
schools will be able to carry out their plan to provide initially about 1,340
trainees per year (former students and farmers) with the opportunity to
receive special courses offered simultaneously and after school hours covering
specific regional and local needs for upgrading in new technical applications
and skills. Those benefitting from such courses are expected to increase
annually through 1990 (para. 2.02).
2.16     The approximately 54 instructors required come from: (a) the existing
staff (70%), (b) on a part-time basis, from the private sector (20%), and
(c) from other specialized institutions (10%). No additional teaching staff
are required but a need is felt for training and upgrading of instructors.
The Government has agreed that 18 to 20% of the staff be upgraded each year.
The new as well as the junior staff will benefit from the pre-service and
in-service training to be offered in the National Agricultural Instructor
Training Center (NAITC) and senior instructors will receive technical
upgrading as interns at the NAITC or via seminars and special extension
courses offered at the HLAIs.
2.17     The Government has agreed to (a) designate by September 30, 1983 a
staff member responsible for on-the-job training activities during school
vacations who will implement the new program of "stages pratiques" to be
developed by each project school; (b) approve the receiving firm/farm before
sending trainees; (c) ensure that students are visited and evaluated during
their off-campus training; and (d) introduce a more flexible accounting
procedures for school farms in line with the recommendations of the Planning
Bureau study (para. 2.04).
Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs)
2.18     The project would finance additional equipment and furniture for 15
Agricultural Training Centers in order to assist in improvement of training in
the ATCs. Costs are estimated at US$6.7 million, net of contingencies. Nine
of these centers are located in Tunisia's disadvantaged areas (four in the
Northwest, six in the Northeast, and five in the South). They also provide
coverage of major climatic/crop zones. Government policy is to reduce the
current highly structured and rigid formal three-year courses in all ATCs and
to expand their short, regionally focussed upgrading courses that promote
self-employment and employability, as well as upgrading existing agricultural
personnel (para. 1.11 and 1.12). The Centers would offer, according to the
local and regional needs, specialized training in areas such as farm machinery
operation and maintenance (including hydraulics and electrical components),



- 17 -
animal and plant production, horticulture, large and small grains, pastures
and legumes. Additionally, irrigation and drainage training programs would be
offered in priority areas. These flexibly designed programs would incorporate
agricultural extension training as required in their ongoing upgrading and
refresher courses. All programs of the project ATCs have been reviewed by the
Bank and judged satisfactory.
2.19     The centers' annual output is expected to reach 830 graduates of the
regular three year training programs and about 7,000 trainees per year in the
short, ad hoc training courses; by 1990,however, graduates will average 550
and trainees 14,500 per annum. Boarding facilities of about 600 places are
available to enable the participants to accommodate both interns and trainees
("stagiaires," short courses). No additional staff is required for the
various training programs of the centers. However, additional equipment
maintenance personnel would be assigned as per the findings of the recent
(1982) inventory. There is also a need for more teacher upgrading
opportunities and the Government has given assurances that about 18 to 20% of
these ATCs' staff would be upgraded each year in the NAITC (para. 2.06). Farm
machinery/equipment operation and maintenance instructors would be given
priority in this upgrading.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTTCs)
2.20     This component would help finance the construction, furniture and
equipment for four new primary teacher training colleges (PTTCs) in Jendouba,
Mateur (in the Northwest), Kasserine (Sbgitla) and Sidi Bouzid (in the central
region). Costs are estimated at US$14.5 million, net of contingencies. The
project objectives are: (i) to introduce and operate new programs to train the
new profile teachers required by the introduction of the "Ecole de Base"; and
(ii) to implement government policy of training and placing teachers in their
home regions. This policy is designed to meet existing shortages and
deficiencies of quality encountered in these regions (para. 1.19). The
majority of graduates of existing PTTCs are urban females (65%), posing
difficulties as far as their assignment to the disadvantaged zones far from
their native areas. A further problem which this project component will help
to resolve is the low quality of primary teachers: many are recruited at a
level which requires a training program combining secondary education courses
with pedagogical training in a four-year course. The result is often that
neither their level of education nor their training is adequate.
2.21     Programs offered in these project institutions would remain flexible
and responsive to primary school needs in the immediate locality. Above all,
they would seek to redress existing training practice which has prevented the
existing teacher training colleges from fully carrying out their dual
function: pre-service and in-service training. Consequently, they would
include: (a) pre-service teacher training for new teachers, with particular
reference to the training of teachers for the first six grades of the Ecole de
Base; and (b) continuing education and upgrading for serving teachers to
improve their qualifications and effectiveness.
2.22     Their programs would be of three types:  a new, formal one-year
post-secondary pedagogical training course for qualified secondary school
graduates (grade 14); a four-year program following lower secondary education



- 18 -
plus one year pedagogical training (grades 10-14); and an active in-service
program to upgrade the qualifications and skills of serving teachers in each
region concerned. Each project PTTC, would appoint one of the existing
instructors to be responsible for planning and organizing the in-service
courses. The new one-year program is of paramount importance for implementing
the Ecole de Base. Since the reform will progress to the upper grades (7, 8,
9) in the latter part of the decade, there will be a need for subject teachers
with a solid base of secondary education which will permit them to teach lower
secondary school-level subject matters, including elementary science and
technology. The MOE is currently devising plans to convert existing secondary
training facilities to meet these needs, starting in 1987/88. The emphasis
would be placed on intensive training during the Sixth Plan period in order to
quickly increase the output of qualified primary teachers. The Government has
approved a satisfactory MOE proposaL for a transition program providing one
year of pedagogical training to carefully selected secondary school graduates
for meeting shortages in primary teachers during 1982/83-1986/87 (para 1.24).
2.23     The four new colleges would enroll about 2,600 students in both
programs (1,600 in the short programa and 1,000 in the long one) and they would
be co-educational. Trainees would be enrolled mostly from within each region
with the objective of having teachers take up teaching posts in their own
regions.  Since the regions are mainly rural with low population densities,
boarding places would be provided. An annual output of about 1,500 of primary
school teachers is expected starting in 1987/88 and increasing to 2,350 by
1990/91 (Annex B, Table 3).
2.24     In view of the ready availability of well-qualified teacher trainers
for the four PTTCs, and the MOE's commitment for the success of these
institutions in the disadvantaged regions, no difficulty is expected in
recruiting the about 130 full-time trainers required, drawn from University
graduates and primary school inspectors. In addition, the full-time
equivalent of another 12 trainers would be needed to operate in-service,
upgrading programs, to be largely drawn from experienced teachers in local
schools and from the regional inspectorates of primary education.
Studies of Technician Education and Training Systems
2.25     Financing will also be provided for studies (estimated at
US$1.3 million, net of contingencies) of technician-level training for the
industrial, commercial,and service sectors. Vehicles and a small equipment
(estimated at US$50,000) will also be provided to the team of experts. The
various technical training programs offered by several ministries and
organizations are fragmented and operate without the benefit of a coherent
training plan. The objectives of these studies are to; (a) articulate and
identify the qualitative as well as quantitative needs (by sector and
sub-sector) for intermediate through higher level technicians on the basis of
the occupational structures of technician employment and of demand; (b) assess
existing training infrastructure (capacity, facilities, personnel, and
programs); (c) evaluate the feasibility of specific investment interventions
aimed at meeting the needs; and (d) identify possible projects commensurate
with the established criteria of feasibility (cost effectiveness, external
productivity, and training content adapted to the qualitative and quantitative
needs for technicians). The study would be initiated by the Government by
mid-1983 beginning with the inventory to be assembled by a local task force,



- 19 -
in order to arrive at a clearly identified and prepared technician training
project by the end of 1984 (which would serve as the basis for the preparation
and appraisal of a sixth education project). Expected products would be;
training program specifications, staffing requirements, equipment lists, space
allocations with educational specifications and critical path analysis of
project implementation. In view of the multisectorial character of the study,
the Ministry of Planning and Finance's (MOPF's) Directorate of Human Resources
jointly with MOE would execute the study and would expand the team working to
include specialists from the different technical ministries as well as from
public and private consulting firms. The MOPF has agreed to designate a study
coordinator and establish an interministerial steering committee to monitor
ongoing work. The Bank will be consulted on the choice of the coordinator.
The terms of reference and timetable of the studies and for individual
specialists have been agreed by the Government and the Bank.
2.26     The study would require 72 man-months of specialist services to be
financed under the project, about half of which would consist of Tunisia
specialists from Tunisian consulting firms and the universities (Annex A,
Chart 2(c)).
Technical Assistance (TA)
2.27     The project's TA would contribute to institution-building through
assisting the Government in; (a) establishing the country's first, permanent
program of agricultural teacher training that employs modern pedagogical
techniques and that serves all of the country's agricultural education and
training institutions; (b) establishing an office with trained staff, a
program of urgently needed planning studies, and permanent mechanisms for
manpower and education planning/evaluation to guide future development of the
country's agricultural education and training system; and (c) establishing the
basis of feasibility, designing appropriate policies and formulating an
investment program for the future development of industrial, commercial and
service technician education/training, as an integral part of Tunisia's
reformed system of secondary and post-secondary schooling. Details of this TA
and the timetable for its implementation are presented in Annex A, Chart
2(c). The conditions of employment of all specialists, as well as the choice
of fellows and their places and programs of study will be subject to prior
Bank review.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.01     Total project cost is estimated at DT 22.8 million or US$40.7 million
(including the front-end fee), of which US$27.0 million is foreign exchange.
The breakdown of estimated costs by main project items is summarized below.
% of
DT Millions              US$Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Ministry of Agriculture
Re-equipping, refurnish-
ing and TA for existing
institutions:
National Agri.
Teacher Trg. Center   0.1         0.5      0.6    0.1      0.9      1.0       3.2
Bureau of Agri. Ed.
Studies & Planning    0.1         0.4      0.5    0.1      0.8      0.9       2.8
4 Agri. Sec. Schools   0.1         1.2      1.3    0.3      2.1      2.4       7.6
6 Agri. Institutes       0.3       2.5      2.8    0.6      4.4      5.0      15.9
15 Agri. Trg. Centers   0.4       _3.1       3.5    0.7      5.7      6.4      20.3
Subtotal                1.0       7.7     8.7    1.8    13.9    15.7         49.8
Ministry of Education
Constr., furn., and equip.
of new institutions
4 Primary Teacher
Trg. Colleges            4.8      _3.3      8.1    8.6      5.9    14.5       46.0
Subtotal                4.8       3.3      8.1    8.6      5.9    14.5       46.0
Ministry of Planning and Finance/Ministry of Education
Engineering Studies       0.1       0.3      0.4    0.1      0.5      0.6       2.0
Studies of Technician
Education and Training
Systems                  0.1       0.3      0.4    0.1      0.6      0.7       2.2
Subtotal                 0.2       0.6      0.8    0.2      1.1      1.3       4.2
Baseline Cost              6.0      11.6    17.6   10.6    20.9    31.5    100.0
Contingencies
Physical                  0.6       1.3      1.9    1.0      2.3      3.3      10.5
Price escalation          1.1       2.0      3.1    2.1      3.4      5.5      17.5
Subtotal                 1.7       :3.3     5.0    3.1      5.7      8.8      28.0
Front-end fee              --        0.2      0.2    _         0.4     0.4       1.2
Total project cost         7.7      15.1    22.8   13.7    27.0    40.7



- 21 -
3.02     A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by category of expenditure are as follows:
DT millions            US$ millions            % of
Local   Foreign Total  Local   Foreign Total   Baseline
Cost
Construction
Academic and communal
facilities             1.7     0.7      2.4    3.0      1.2      4.2     13.3
Boarding                 2.0      0.9     2.9    3.6       1.6     5.2      16.5
Staff housing            0.2      0.1     0.3    0.4      0.2      0.6       1.9
Professional services   0.5       0.0     0.5    0.9      0.0      0.9       2.9
Sub-total              4.4      1.7     6.1    7.9      3.0    10.9      34.6
Furniture                  0.4      0.9      1.3    0.7      1.7     2.4       7.6
Equipment                  0.9      7 8     8.7    1.6    14.0    15.6        49.5
Sub-total              1.3      8.7    10.0    2.3    15.7    18.3       57.1
Technical assistance       0.3      1.2     1.5    0.4       2.2     2.6       8.3
Baseline cost              6.0    11.6    17.6   10.6    20.9    31.5    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                 0.6      1.3     1.9    1.0      2.3      3.3      10.5
Price escalation         1.1      2.0     3.1    2.1      3.4      5.5      17.5
Sub-total              1.7      3.3     5.0    3.1      5.7      8.8     28.0
Front-end fee               -       0.2     0.2    --        0.4     0.4       1.2
Total project cost         7.7    15.1    22.8   13.7    27.0    40.7
3.03     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works exclude any
identifiable taxes and are based on unit prices which are derived from
analysis of current similar contracts for comparable works. Furniture and
equipment costs are based on current CIF unit prices, and adjusted upward to
include local transportation and installation. Educational equipment is tax
exempt in Tunisia. Costs of the technical assistance are based on prevailing
international fees for specialists and fellowships: (a) average cost per
man-month of about US$8,640 for experts of which 80% would be foreign currency
and (b) of US$2,280 per man/month for fellowships, of which 100% would be
foreign currency. Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted to reflect
anticipated prices at the time of negotiations.



- 22 -
3.04     Contingency Allowances.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated
costs for all categories except for technical assistance for which physical
contingency was estimated at 5%. The project cost also includes contingencies
for price escalation calculated for the period beginning at negotiations and
in accordance with appropriate implementation schedule. For local costs,
price escalation is calculated on the basis of annual increases of 9% for 1985
and 8% for 1984 through 1986, while for foreign costs price escalation is
calculated on the basis of annual international price increases in US dollars
of 8.0% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% for 1986 and
1987. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at 15.9% of
baseline costs plus physical contingencies and total contingencies to be about
28.0% of baseline costs.
3.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$27.0 million, or 66.3% of the total project cost. The calculation of
the foreign exchange component is based on the expectation that: (a) all civil
works contracts and related professional services will be awarded to local
firms; (b) about 85% of the furniture will be procured by contracts to local
suppliers; (c) except for some simple didactic materials, all equipment will
be of foreign origin and about 90% will be directly imported; and
(d) technical assistance will be principally from foreign sources. The
resulting foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as
follows: (a) civil works 30%; (b) furniture 70%; (c) equipment 90%;
(d) professional fees 0%; (e) fellowships 100%; and (f) experts 80%.
B.  Project Financing.
3.06       The proposed loan of US$27.0 million would finance 100% of the
total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The Government would
finance the balance of the project costs. The proposed financing plan is
summarized below:
Government            IBRD             Total
US$ million               US$ miliT on   %
Construction                        7.0                3.0            10.0      24.6
Furniture                           0.7                1.7              2.4      5.9
Equipment                           1.6               14.0            15.6      38.3
Professional Services               0.9                0.0             0.9       2.2
Technical Assistance                0.4                2.2             2.6       6.4
Baseline Cost                  10.6               20.9            31.5      77.4
Contingencies
Physical                        1.0                2.3             3.3       8.1
Price Increase                  2.1                3.4             5.5      13.5
Sub-total                       3.1                5.7             8.8      21.6
Front-end Fee                       --                 0.4             0.4       1.0
Total Project Cost             13.7               27.0            40.7    100.0



- 23 -
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  When fully operational in 1986, the MOA and MOE
project institutions would incur recurrent costs totalling DT 8.0 million per
annum, or 1.5% of estimated recurrent outlays of both ministries in that
year. Their claim on the recurrent budgets would remain roughly at the same
percentage through 1991, and would represent a reasonable increase in
recurrent costs (para. 1.20). Based on conservative estimates of future
current government income and allocations to MOA and MOE, it is expected that
the recurrent costs of all project items would be met (Annex B, Table 4).
C. Procurement
3.08     Civil works contracts for the four Primary Teacher Training Colleges
(averaging US$3.2 million each, including contingencies) will be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB). Small, dispersed
government-financed extensions to agricultural institutions (shelters and
small maintenance workshops estimated at US$50,000 each) will be erected by
the MOA or implemented by local contractors through normal government
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and do not exclude foreign
bidders. The Bank would finance the fixed equipment for these extensions,
estimated at US$328,000. These works are well within the capacity of the MOA
and local firms and will be executed according to an agreed schedule. There
are sufficient funds in the MOA budget to meet the Government's share of the
costs.
3.09     Detailed lists and specifications for furniture and equipment will be
presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procurement. Furniture
and equipment items (amounting to US$23.0 million including contingencies)
would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk
procurement with delivery coordinated with local works (para. 3.08).
Contracts of furniture and equipment in excess of US$200,000 would be awarded
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for ICB. Small items or groups of
items, estimated to cost less than the above figure or items of a specialized
nature, for which ICB would not be practical and items which must be
compatible with other equipment procured under ICB, would be procured under
normal government procedures satisfactory to the Bank and would include, to
the extent possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers; the total value of furniture and equipment so procured would not
exceed an aggregate total of US$2.0 million or about 8.7% of estimated
equipment and furniture costs including contingency allowance. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of the
CIF price, whichever is lower. Draft tender and contract documents for
furniture and equipment would be forwarded on completion for Bank review and
approval. Bank approval of tender evaluation documents would be required
prior to the award of all contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB as
well as all civil works contracts. Bank reimbursement of all contracts would
be contingent upon Bank approval of bid evaluation documents subsequent to
contract awards.
3.10     Disbursements (Annex B, Table 7).  Disbursements would be fully
documented and would be made on the basis of;



- 24 -
(a)  Civil works (US$3.5 million):                   30% of total expenditure
(b) Furniture and equipment (US$18.0 million):
(i) directly imported                            100% of foreign expenditure
(ii) locally manufactured                         100% of ex-factory cost,
(iii) locally procured (but foreign-manufactured) 85% of local expenditure
(c) Technical assistance:
(i) consultants (US$1.2 million)                 100% of foreign expenditure
80% of local expenditure
(ii) fellowships (US$0.3 million)                 100% of total expenditure
(iii) technician studies (US$1.3 million)          100% of foreign expenditure
80% of local expenditure
The amount of US$2.3 million would be earmarked for the unallocated category
of the loan.
3.11     The disbursement schedule (Annex B, Table 7) is forecast on the basis
of agreed implementation schedules considered appropriate and within
reasonable capacity of implementation for the Government and contractors. The
dominant proportion of equipment for existing schools in the project's
composition, the standard civil worlks involved and the advanced stage of
preparation of the bid documents, would result in a relatively shorter time
for completion. Disbursement period is hence estimated to be five years or
two years shorter than the current revised sector disbursement profile for
education in the EMENA region.
D. Accounts, Auditing amd Reporting Requirements
3.12     Separate accounts for the project's budgets and expenditures would be
maintained in MOA, MOE, and MOPF. The newly created PIU at MOA would have a
full-time accountant and monitor expenditures under the Loan. Accounting for
the MOE component would be maintained by the PIU at MOE which is already in
charge of accounts for the implementation of the third education project.
3.13     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year will be audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) henceforth, the
Government will furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of
the separate project accounts and audit reports.



- 25 -
IV ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01     Organization and administration.  A new PIU is be established and
will be maintained at the Directorate of Agricultural Education, Research and
Extension Services (DERV) at the MOA. It will be responsible for the
implementation of the project components of the MOA. It will be composed of a
director, an administrator and an accountant on a full-time basis. The MOA
has appointed the PIU director after review by the Bank. The existing PIU at
the MOE, which currently implements the third education project, will be
responsible for the implementation of the project components for that
ministry. The Director of Primary Education in the Ministry will be
responsible for all aspects related to the proposed training programs. The
MOE's PIU is composed of experienced and competent staff within the
Directorate of Primary Education and its staff (architect, accountant,
procurement specialist, educators, etc.) will be maintained in adequate
numbers. The Government has provided the Bank with assurances that the agreed
staffing and facilities will be maintained during the implementation period.
Both PIUs at MOA and MOE will be expected to send regular progress reports to
the Bank at agreed intervals each year.
4.02     Implementation.  The construction, furnishing and equipping for all
the project's institutions are scheduled for completion by June 1987 and the
technical assistance component by December 1985 (Annex A). This schedule is
considered commensurate with the project's execution capabilities of the
Government and contractors. To allow sufficient time for submission and
payment of final withdrawal applications, the closing date will be
December 31, 1987.
4.03     Design and supervision of civil works.  For the design and
supervision of the civil works for the MOE component, architects have been
chosen by the Ministry. Preliminary drawings have been reviewed by the Bank
during negotiations. Extension to shelters for agricultural equipment and
small maintenance workshops, to be government-financed, will be implemented in
accordance with standard specifications of the MOA, satisfactory to the Bank,
and with the agreed schedule of implementation.
4.04     Sites.  The Government has selected and acquired sites for the
project's four new Primary Teacher Training Colleges according to criteria
acceptable to the Bank. All sites have public utilities (water, electricity
and sewerage) readily available. The cost of land acquisition has been born
by the Government and is not included in the project. All existing
institutions of the MOE component have sufficient land to allow for possible
extensions.
4.05     Equipment lists.  Detailed equipment lists for the MOA institutions
have been completed and reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. The
equipment lists for the MOE colleges are standard and were approved with
regard to the primary teacher training component of the third project.



- 26 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01     The main benefits expected to accrue from implementation of the
proposed project include the following:
(a) a higher than present calibre of instructors and of teaching practice
in Tunisia's agricultural schools and training centers;
(b) efficient, well-organized dissemination of up-to-date technical
knowledge and skills in modern agricultural applications to local
farming communities;
(c) a higher calibre of agricultural extension agents possessing
communications skills, up-to-date technical information and sound
training in extensionist methodology and practice;
(d) a cadre of agricultural technicians well-trained in the technical
specializations required for Tunisia's agricultural development;
(e) an infrastructure of agricultural schools and training centers
adequately equipped to train technical personnel essential for
raising agricultural productivity;
(f) an institutional capacity for planning and policy formulation to
develop the agricultural sector's human resources;
(g) increased efficiency of the agricultural schools as a result of
budgetary procedures;
(h) an investment strategy, feasibility assessment and project design for
the development of technician education/training for industrial and
commercial development in line with the goals of the Sixth
Development Plan; and
(i) additional primary teacher training capacity (with an annual output
of 1,900 qualified teachers) and modern pedagogical training
programs, which will help meet the need for qualified primary school
teachers, upgrade the qualifications and skills of the existing
teachers, and support effective implementation of Tunisia's reform of
elementary schooling.
Risks
5.02     The MOA/DERV has not administered an education and training project
of this magnitude before, nor has DERV had previous experience with a Bank
project. To attenuate this risk, the MOA has (a) appointed a PIU director who
has sound experience in carrying out internationally aided development
projects; (b) made provision for establishing an appropriately staffed PIU
which will, in fact, become the key management unit for the formal
agricultural training subsector as far as physical implementation and
logistics are concerned; and (c) instructed its Directorate of Administrative
and Financial Affairs to give priority to the financial management of this
project.



- 27 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATIONS
6.01     At negotiations, the following implementation actions and documents
were presented to the Bank: (a) detailed equipment lists with specifications
for the MOA institutions (para. 4.05); and (b) preliminary designs for the
four primary teacher training colleges (para. 4.03).
6.02     Agreements were reached on the following:
(a) Completion of MOA Bureau's specific studies (para. 2.04) according to
the agreed implementation schedule;
(b) The appointment of a staff member responsible for on-the-job training
activities for each agricultural secondary school by
September 30, 1983 to organize, supervise and evaluate
students'practical off-campus training during school vacations on
approved farms or firms (para. 2.17);
(c) The appointment of a director for the NAITC by June 1, 1983
(para. 2.08);
(d) The MOE's PIU to be maintained to implement the primary teacher
training component of the proposed project (para. 4.01);
(e) A coordinator for the studies of technician education and training
systems be appointed by June 30, 1983 (para. 2.25);
(f) Establishing and maintaining an interministerial committee to review
progress in the carrying out of the studies (para. 2.25);
(g) The Bank to review and agree the qualifications and conditions of
employment of all specialists as well as the choice of fellows and
their places and programs of study. All fellows to be appointed by
December 31, 1984 (paras. 2.05, 2.10 and 2.27);
(h) Auditing of accounts in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles (para. 3.13) and certified copies of the project's
financial statements and audit reports to be furnished to the Bank
not later than six months from the end of each fiscal year; and
(i) Separate accounts for the project's budget and expenditures to be
maintained in MOA, MOE and MOPF (para. 3.12).
6.03     This project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$27.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia for a term of 17 years, including a
grace period of 4 years.



- 28 -
ANNEX A
Chart 1
REPIJBLIC OF TUNISIA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM, 1982
Priecarv Edccation                                                    Secondary Education                                                  Higher Ed-catio-
1   2    3        4         5          6           7           8           9          10          11       12          13         14          15        16         17        18
Economics                       Tech. Institutes, Tech. Teacher Trg
Vocational                                                                                                       l
Schools   5         Industrial                         ~~~~~~~~~~High,,Tcniin
3             EHb                                            -          }~~                 ~        ~ 5      Letters                                       Univerity
P    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~Socia Scienc, Dentisty,T-ahe Trg
jScienc & Math
{    H F i   :    X    H ;    H    1    t                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medicine, Pharmay
Em--rnc Exaimintin .                                                                                    Tech. Sci--es
Technicl Diploma.                                   App-t"_hi
O   Voca.tional School CerificaeTa.mg                                                              _       
A    Sprcial prep-rtory y... for
enterig high., education
1yTh. primany cycle is leing -it-edd to grades 7 & 8i                                           II       I        IL
to p-oide pre-oati ...  training for those not
proceding to -ebod.,y scol.Agricultural Schools                                                                                                      Agriclt-rl Insitute



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION COMPONENT
1982        1983         1984         1985         1986        19.87
1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
CIVIL WORKS *
- Awarding author. & signat.
- Construction period
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
- Prep. of preliminary lists       -
- Prep. of final lists
- Prep. of specs. & bid doc.
- Advertising submittal period                                ......
- Evaluation-recommend. period                     _             -
- Awarding author. & signat.
- Manufacturing period                                 _
- Delivery and installation
NEGOTIATIONS
r*-
*Small government-financed hangars.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FOUR PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
C.Y.         1982         1983        1984         1985         1986         1987
ITEMS                1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
CIVIL WORKS
-Prep. of schematic drawings    -
- Prep. of preliminary designs                                                                                           o
- Prep. of constr. drawings
- Prep. of bidding documents
- Advertising-submittal period
- EvaluationL-recommend. period
- Awarding author. & signat.
- Construction period
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
- Prep. of preliminary lists
- Prep. of final lists
- Prep. of specs. & bid lists
- Advertising submittal period
- Evaluation-recommend. period                                  -
- Awarding author. & signat.
- Manufacturing period
- Delivery and installation
-Guarantee period                                                                              _    _
NEGOTIATIONS
cr



-31-                                                                     ANNEX A
Chart 2 Cc)
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL Ri!PORT
Implementation Schedule
Planning and Technician Education/Traininp Studies
1982 1          1983             1            1984                   1   19Ll
Tasks/Components                                                  CY:    4       1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      1       2      3      4
A.  Planning Studies (MOA) (Part A(6) and (7) of the Project)
i. Study of School Fates:
agriculturalists (2); irrigation specialist (1)   (b nlm)
rainfed crop specialist (I); legal specialist (I) (3 m/m)
it. Agricultural education study
agricultural educator (1)                                (9 r/m)
consultants (3)                                          (9 r/m)
Ils. Study of human resources in agrxculture                                              _    -                  j7
agriculture manpower economist (1)                      (12 m/m)
consultants (3)                                          (9 m/r)
iv. Fellowships (b)
education planning (2)
rural pedagogy (1)              )                   (30 m/m)
agricultural education (2)
B.  National Agricultural Instructor Training Center (MOA)
(Part A()) of the Project)
i. Specialists
agricultural educator                                (24 W/m)
rural communication                                  (24 m/m)
consultants (3)                                        (9 r/m)rn
ii. Fellowships (b)                                         (hO) r/m)
C.  Studies of technician education and training systems
MOE/MOPF) (Part C of the Project)
i. Formulate detailed terms of reference, including budget
and implementation plan.                                         _
ii. Official appointment of a studies coordinator
iii. Finalize organization for conduct of studies; institu-
tional and administrative arrangements 2; appointment
of staff; allocation of resources.
iv. Activity/Outputs;
first report
second report
third report
fourth report (invest. programs & final recommendations)
v.  Specialists
senior technical educator                               (18 m/m)
specialist consultants 3/                               (38 r/m)rn
manpower survey(s)                                      (lb m/m)
fellowships                                              (6 m/m)
V     Review by the Bank/MOE/MOPF or MOA
1/  Not later than March 31, 1983.
2/ Including establishment of interministerial coordinating committee.
3/  Consultants in the areas of industrial management training, technical teacher training, comsaercial studies, business administration,
technical education planning, on-the-job training.



-32                                                        ANNEX B
Table 1
COMFRATI   EDCAIIN IPICAORSPage   1.of   2pages
S~E 20011FF 7, 19'8
*  .          1 S~~OOT. 1
*  .          1009~~~~~~~:X. 0FF:                                       PRI,  :FIESUHFEN1!                     :SEC.
*  .           ~~~~~~~~~EDO. AS: EDU1C0010F  :L. ITE  FRI. . . OFPL 0    S.TUJ-O:NI1  C001 IF'FIOOOE2S 127   1 ST.] II  51 1(40
*  .      .          1~~~~~~~~~~~~% TTL . : )COF'FENNI .:LCy OFFN OLL 11IFF   DEFF1S19FCIM. UP, C4 I 001R0I   LOF13LIDELNISTEFOO'!LL
GN0FFFl    I SSP   1CENTFOL:EXr ALLOCATED RA ER F          TL 001I   00 TIA   F OF FElT  :AS Z ONFF'1'FFISO?  P IT .16AT100  19E17  11: [00 
00001 F'OE    OAF PITO   000V0 T001'] 0001. C     To:       : 1 F   INET   P90 I01- -A IL C.F F]  CArIT 1      1    C       N TOL0 [L1F   61011,'S
YR MILLS. I  0)   TO: 113.  FEX.  CFPRI . 60E7C.H FF.10 , DL TS) 1          C(SF   CL LYIOF1
IF 19/9F I]1979):                     '                 F1926)                                          C
Fl)   1   2)1   (3F    I   4)   1         (5F       I   6)  1]7)           CS1)     (9F0]     lo 110'(12  :(1FF   FlOE4
DFEVEL0F[D COUNTRIES
AUSTRAL1IA       00   14.     08780,  6.30        10.      --      -         100    1030       100        2                                                20 ')
C000 8ALI         1  23.7,   9,6500 1 7.70        10.509 300? 340?~ 230? 099    1060           100         2000A1O                       C2       'l,o
GERMANO   T..79  61.0   1270            40         99                            OA         10                             O9         901A0
NETHFFLAN[FO    79   141   11004         .9        5.      -2    35     2     99?    90          90         8 0    (43        9                          .  4]
NEW 700AL1'N     0     3.2   0,081    050         13.0    IF    31      70 99    100            100        24       I1)I()092:8x
0300 rEN         79    9.3  12,803    9.0         10.2    31    10      10    990    990         0 TOO      90     19"        I          -. 0     10    2'  00
EAST 0N 090010
1100200N0        80    0.08`    72001  0.39.    19.3    40    20              351?                4                             1022*    2        1F     S I20
BURUNDI          01    4.        2350   -  E.0l    19.    4      3,     2     25      _6         35                                                         (F22O I
420*0000         00    0.40      20 0    6.50     25.0    40    20       1     --     9X         6         4,       1.000                  I     -i0        .00
DJIBOUTI         0 1    0,3      460I   5.4       32.0    60    40            10      12         -.                                                          0019 5C
E_THIOPI A       80  31.0        1300       9      1 1                   40 -    10    8 F1l                                                                 10  
,KENYA           79  15.3        390    5.90W    18.0p    1 1            4 4                     74.      40       IS .0                          -        I0
LEFCIOEHI        10   1.2        410 1   .231     21.0    11 2           3   52       044                           4 )       461                -I       ..9 0
FFADA0000AO  77    0~~~~~~~ ~~~~~          ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~                               ~~~~ ~~ ~~                                         ~        ~~~~~~~.5  330    4.0W  24.0    53   "80233"1  10
MALAWI           00    0.8        000   3.01FW  10.28   401   is8    "311  25         (9400      17       02        8011      ii          4X      'B      030
MAURITFO         79    0.9    10000   0.9         1.69                                                     "OT     1   ? 719    1 56
FFOOFFiA         80    0.00      2008   32        21.3    02    17      : 11  231'    00          2        4       1.                     4X      I
SOMALIA          70    3.        1000   2.0       110     1      1       1    501     21                   7       20.4       10          400    1SF      100
0000FF           70  17.9        .050    4.0      1:9.9    481   36     16    0F      00          4        30      4.         23         10       10      1  7
SW AZI LANE,     78    0,5       505    7,1       12.2    36    33      18 6511   3009           490       30       7 .7       0         33000   -00         00
TANZANIA  80   11,5     ~~~~~~~~260    5.9  17.7    47    10    16   798    988         87        21       11.0       190         3       200A    0010
UjGANDA          so0  12.6011    3001 -r-          I1L.1    230,  370    200D  40     540        61        34      ---        12          5       23       060
2Z0A             70 2   27.5I    2100l  6.06      22.0    49    26      35    10      84Y        44        420     ----       41         03       2         10110B
ZAMBIA1          s 00  278       5660   4.5F      11.1    48    23      22    448    95          s0        43      12.9       19         10       2"       1 00
2M08A0WE       01    7.71       70011  0.1       19.5    0232           6   441    90          05        39       20.0        5         1,       2 ~ 0501
PENIN            7     3 .48,    3200   6.50W    35.0C   43    21         ,   1011   42          3 0      46       10.0       30         11       03       1 000O
""09000F         70    0.2       590    2.99,   10,09   330   430    208             74Y        450       00Y      11.80        ,         I4~                200
A.0.,           79    2.        20    3.00       2000   --       - A- --                        -        6509                                            o: Or70y
CZAD             76    4.4       120     .40  0 217          - -             15      209                 77       ---.21                                    "092
001    F         3    1060              9.000    2.70    --  ---         -     -      -         ---       069                                     10      40000
0000FF           77                                                            _:0.6    3.420    3.709  0.40    -.  46110Y                       19119      0000
G0MB10           77    0.6       2210   3.30W    0.08   46    250        60  1011   40119        90A      2/Ely   44.70       4             8109X  17
GH ANA           70   11.3       400    4.00      15.187110                                                710                              100 '
GUINEA           77    5.3       270    4.389r   20,08   300)  310)   30A  2          341100     1611     3911     31.19                                     lOST5X   2   11B
00009CAS 1003    0      0211  1.0708  00.0        45.0    33    46      13    300,   60          86       43       20.0                    030 6XY,9009
LIBERIA          80    1.9       520    4.6       19.'6   43    2 3     24   30      52          32        35      20.0       7,20                          190
MALI             77    6.711     1800    .21      217'  450       7      8A   10      2810        --      43110               500l        6                  9000
UIRRITANIA      78    1.60      3208   55        16.      33     3     2  1711       32         00        44A     52.        10 C)                          32'
NIGER            78    5.2       300    4.309    16.0Y 520A  430         50           17         160       1       3 8.:70    19CYF00
NIGERI           77  826         910    4.10       9.6    ---         O- .--1                                                                    21/0I
'ENE0AL          77   3.5,       450    5.0       23.0    46    34      20    10      34000X       -       4300"1                                         "  08
SIERRA LEONE   77      24        250    4.08      16.1   --    .11                     7                                                    0 X    "         68
TOGD             78    2.4       400    6.530    26.50  300   200    210 I8    74                40        5411Y   38.0                     000RX   48F1     63111
OFFER OOLT8    78    5.~~~~-6  180    3.0    9.309 31    16       32 --         159        2         530     55?         0392
L-ATIN AMERICA AND, FOE CARIBBEAN0
ARGENTINA        70  27.3    7,10       2.7       10.91   430   314    184  930    89            52        17o7                          3               2301
BAHAMAS          79    0.2    2,770    1.          9.       6"  36"   11   931'    99Y           97        27                            7'       G
BARBHDOS         78    02     2.8       0.5A0   2  2.1    430   310    1A   99    100            99A       _70     19. 9f00              '0
11301010         80    5.4       550    4.109    30 .50                      63      740        ---                                                     1260Y
BRAZIL           79? 106.5    1,270    3.0IB       6. 2    53           14   76       7300AY30                      4.50?    610         (5A9    1400Y16201
HIF-FIE         76  1009    1890    3.211        13.01   -      --          -~11110             -        34110                         55-1XY   '010BY      20
..L.OI         30  2.0 1,81   2.3               25.0    35    20      20   8111   78           36        32       6.6                           "0l1" 020
C,C01T0 FICA    s0    2.8       .100   04         31.1    40    27    353   90        93         77        33       5.5                                  1400
208              23    8.         o-     .        11.0                       96    1 121109    90        18110Y   ---        5            1100Y  15     1'1 0200
00000820FF REF978    5.2    1,030    2.19         13.90       ---       ---  67                                       -
EC UADOR         00    8.411   1,010    6.09      36.7    45    31      16   81 . 105                     36       12.6       c,         4        16     292C0
E-L 00L00500    77    4.4        640    34.40    23111  64        0     27    62      0210       32       39       -00                             70     790
G3010M0L0        78    6.E    1,010    1.700    12.68    -   --               -      69009x               35110               69          5E000   19110     .50
1300ANA          76    0.        630    0.111     12.080    -----                    998100     - --      3200                                              0011)---   OB
0Al111R          30    5.001 E   230    3.:400     7.0   65       9      6   2311   50"X         20,      41ll)9.07                                          801
HONIURA          78    3.6       520    351       14.3110 62     1 1    19A   6       910        309      41119    12.80                    0     1           0
3000100    30    2.1~~~~-  1,11   6.5       137    37    43       20    90      98         98        40)       2.3       9           I305
MEXICO           80  65.5    1,880    4.7         1700   46    39       15   92       90         53        44       9.1       86          56      I?       030
NICARAGUA        78    2.08      61011  3.000    14.00   -                    001    8511       24        371      -11    301
PANAMA           78    1.88,  1,55011  S5.5000   21.38   420   130)   13   8211    0195B         --        25110    11.6      820)       50110    2780   21.40119
90000000         79    3.0    1140    1.40        14.2    42    17      20    84      83         32        28       3.10      20         72       12      070
9000             00L   16.6    0000    36         143    53   I15       19   (0   FF3            56        39       9.        09         39       2        4.409
TRINIDIAD  0 T. 77    1.1    3, 910    4.819 B      .0898B 48    32     70     95    90          01       30       10.,50     49         62'      24
UUUAY         78    2.      2500    25           9.4-4                            051           -  41'           --640X   -,--    17.10AY
VEN0Z00L0        78   14.4    3,440    5.19       18.98  -.82    106110                                  28       --          -         3880X   17      21.100



- 33-                                                    ANNEX B
Table 1
COMFASATIVE EDUJCATION 1NDICATnRS,
INDICATORS===========                      Page 2 of 2 pages
SEPTEMBER 7, 1982
:       .      .          :CENTrFAL I                       .                 .                 .
:       .      :          I  GOVT.:                :        .       .         .      :          . GOVT,
: .            .          :EXP. ON:                .     :          .         :PRI. :RECURRENT:                    :SEC. 1
:      .       .         IEDU. AS: EDIJCATION    :LITER-   FRI. ICOMPILE - :STU -UNIT CoST:PROGRESSI SEC.  STU- :HIGHER:
:       .      .          T: TTL. IRECURRENT   :ACY         IENROLL:TION      IDENTS:PRIO. ED.:lION RATE :FNROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:      .:UHF'   S  GNFR  :CENTRAL :FX  ALLOCATEDI:  RATE :RATIO IRATE FOR:PER  :AS X GNF/:FROM PRI.:RATIO :TER  :RATIO
SASE:`0F    IECAPSPITAI T)JTET': GOVT. :      TO:      :IT [IF  : NET  :F`R.SCH.:rCACH- CAPITA  :TO SEC.  I NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:RILLO. I TTO:BI TOD EGU. I ...  IFR]]. SEC.  HTI.IAIIUT TE: T   (T7  :CYCLE() 'ER              I  (: I) (z)  IER            TX)
:(TV7VT)1(979T1           ,        .               1)1)76)'                          .        
9                                                :l  6                                             
(IT:I  (ITT 1  (3      1   01 1        (5       I  (U)  1 (7)  1  (TO :       (9) 1  (10              i    12): (13) :(14)
EAST ASIA ANR  THE F'ACIFIC
CHINA          79 981 .       260   3.3        6.6   T9   34    27   66    93            64       27       0.0      83         47      19     2.8O
INDONESIA      81 142.9       370   3.0        9.16AW U    39       -   32    944        68       34       1.4      44        23T    16       2,OOA
KOREA          78  371.0    1,510   2. 7ET  17.4BT 35   29    36   93B  100By            94       4SF    - -        91        69EY   398   12.40BY
NALTAYSIA      ST  14. 20  14600  5.2         22.0   3)   32    13   6SF   960           94       28        -                   584  V  27    3.70
'AFUA N.G.    79   2.9        760   9.4w     16.4W-                      -    SOx        73       31       1.0      ---       64BX   23      --
FHILIPFINES   79  45.3B    69TH  2.8w         14.0   U4   36*8-    75s   84              65       31       '.I      89        55      36    21.00
L3INGAFORE     80   2.4   4,420   2.7          6.7   39   40      16   83    92          02       31       8.8      96        S5      22      8.00
SOLOMON ISL.  80   0.2        460   4.2PW    10OA  41   34    20    -_   60              S0       26      --        3          18--
THAILAND       BO  47.38    723s   3.4        20.9   59   15    13   46S   96             -       17       9.3      59        58      22      4.00
SOUTH A90A
BANGLArESH     T92.3B 0        90    IiF      10.1A6  LT  17    20   22B   63Y           --5-      3       5.6       --        14     23      1.43
INDIA          77 656         7)    79         9.90-7       -        - 36    790         --       41      ---        --       2s8    ---      8.3049
NEPAL          G0  14.3B      1400  2.4        9.9   27   18    36   19   S8x            30       38A    ---        64         14AX   20A    2.084r
PA9ISTAN       79  79.7       270   2.0WT   55i.T   39   26    27   24 .  96x            808      48       6.5      51        20X    17       6.00
EUROFE, MIDDLF EAsT AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN    77  12.5         -    1.7       3.7   47   19    15   12    318Y          69       37B    ---        62          8     22BY   1,00Y
ALGERIA        79  18.3   1,770   3.86        12.3   344  26A   21A  35    83Y           45A      37       '.0'    5sA       2TY      26      3.70Y
CGYPT          78  38.9       500      P.894    8.8P  31   35    26   44    74BX         80       34B      9.8      83         478X   258   15.00
GREECE         76   9.3   4,140   2.64        10.68  37   26    21   --    9780           --      294      6.2?                 9             7 soBY
IRAN           79  36.9          -  9.7AY   14 1AY --             ---  50   IOIAX        :--      32A       --                44AX   27T   417.AY
IRAa           79  12.6   2,710   4.340    6.949   -         --          - 1000          ---      28                 --       4SAY   29A      9.30AY
IRELAND        51   3.4B  4,480   6.3AY4  11.8A   --    -    -    98    93               94       29      ---       98        8l      14    11.00
.JORDAN        79   7.2   1.200   4.36         7.2   19   44    1   708   97x           85       32       7.2      94        44X    20    14.00
_EDANON        79   2.3           ----        18.6AS4---9-6 -_ - -              6x       ----     19      ---        ---       46X    ---    27.804Y
MOROCCO        80  19.5       740   6.3AW    17.5A  36   44    20   28    56AT           35       39      19.7      40        2sx    21       4.50
OMAN           79   0.9   3,530   3.7AWY   4.9Ay--   ---   ---                  4        - -      23A    ---        ---         7X      9-   _-
PORTJGAL       77   9.88  2,100B  4.0         15.4   41   21    15   70    92Y           60       19      ---       75        30Y    238   10.809
ROMANIA        /S  22.1   2,100   3.0    6.20                                I X 98   10680  ---  238   ---       98        84BX   22B   10.60BY
SGAIN          76  37.0   4,920   2.1T        16.      ---    ---   --   98BY            ---      29B    ---        ---       67BY  . ---   24.10BY
SYRIA          78   8.6   0,170   4.45        10.3   39   25    26   58    87BY          80       35B    ---        68        41BY   218   12.60
TUNISIA        79   6.4   1,130   7.0F        19.0   42   39    0S   628  IOOX           80       39B    12.8       30        30X    30       6.00
TURREY         79   4.3   1,380   3.6A4Y  10.6           -------   60   105AX            ---      30A    ---        ----      41X    27       7.07AY
YEMEN A.R.    80   6.8        420   O.OPW   12.0   94    7         7   21B   37          124      38Y    67.0       85          3     20      1.10
,YEMEN P.D.R.  80   1.9        424   6.0       10.5   63   14       8   408   65          53       24      22.4      81        22      16      2.50
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                80      94       66   65   63    73    55          57        91      54        67        46      83      84
RANGE:                            (1.4-  (2.0-   (19- (7-  (5-   (8-   (15-    (12-            (17-   (1.1-    (6-         (2-    (8-   (0.02-
10.0)  45.0)   94)  46)  36)   99)   105)    991             77)    67.0)    99)         81)    48)   29.0)
QUARTILES:  UPPER:               5.5     19.9    51   35   21    80    995            8        41      20        84        55      26    10.6
EDIAN:              3.9     15.0    43   28   18    50    82            62       35      12        60         22     22      3.1
LOWER               2.9    10.5    36   18   13    23    50             36       28       7        38         11      Is     0.9
SYMBOLS:                                              FOOTNOTES:
DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                  A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
M,,  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                        B   DATUM MORE RECENT THAN BASE YEAR
-DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                N   CURRENT PRICES
S    INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                        P   GDF
55   COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                            U0  INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
Om5 COMNED WITN HIGHER                                  R   CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ONLY
5   MI2NISTRY OF EDUCATION (HOE) ONLY
T   MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
U . EXCLUDES CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
H   INCLUDES PFRIVATE EXPENDITURE
U ' PUBL'rC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X . INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y   UNESCO SOURCES
COLUMNS I AND 2:  WORLD BANK ATLAS OR IBRD MISSIONS.
COLUMNS 3 TO 141  I8RD MISSIONS AND/OR UNESCO STATISTICAL YEARBOOK.
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALU-ATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AD ANALYSIS DF RELATIVE STAO4E  OF EWUATINAL
DEVELOPNENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES.  HOVEVER, ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA. CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON  SHOULD SE APPROACHED
WITH GREAT C^UTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEn COLLECTED LAROELY BY BANK MISSIONS PROM GOVERNHENT SOURICESI THE
RENAINSER ARE STAFF ESTINATES OR DATA FROM  UNESCO.  EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND, WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK
THE ACCURACY OF THE DATA.  NEVERTHELESS, SUCH DATA ArE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BAN  19 ISWRKING TO IMPROVE THEM
POMRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASIDN OF ITS OPERATIONS  WORE.  IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING GUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE EEPT IN
MIND: '
T1) 'EDUCATION' As DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, BOTH FORMAL AD NON-FORMAL.
(2) 'PRIMARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE
SECONDART LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.0. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL).
(3) 'LITERACY RATES' (COL. 6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM  COUNTRtY CENSUSES.  IN MNY COUNTRIES THEY ARE  ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND
IT Is DOUBTFUL THAT ANY ULIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' NABS DEE  FOLLOWED CONISTENTLY.
4) *PUDLIC EXPENSITUNE IN EDUCATION' (COLS. 4 AND 50 REFER  TO ALL CAPITAL AM  tECURRENT EXPEfNOTURES DEVOTED To EDUCATION
-.- FUBLtC ANfD DUAI-PUDLIC AGENCIES.
1sF 'EnR1DILNENT RATIos- (COLS. 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL TEAR AN  ME THE PESCERYASE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FILL-TINE
IN THE APROPrIATE smomL. PrSLIC AND PRIVATE DY LEVEL.  THEY AtE OFTEN SUECT TO A WDE nAlIN Or EROR IN TME DEVELOPIN
COUNTRIES ONINS TO VARIATIONS IN TIE ACCICY OF  SIC DATA (I.E.  GE-SPECIFIC POPLMATIS ANM EILL"RTSD.  EROLLMENT
FIGUlES FREQETLY ARE NI    TNAN THE  2WOEB OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOL.  OV_ER-AD   STUDENTS WHS  INCLUSION IS
INRICATEn  DY FOSTROTES ALSO CS IWLATE THE RAT4IOS.



- 34 -
ANNEX B
Table 2
REPUBiLIC OF TUNISIA
Fifth Education Project
Five-Year Plan:  Selected Education Targets
Fifth Plan            Sixth Plan
1977-81                1982-86
Target    Performance         Target
(i) Gross Enrollment Ratios, %
Primary                             99.0       98.0      100.0 (1990/91)
Secondary                           32.0       30.0       35.0
(ii) Female Participation Rates, %
Primary                              41.0      42.0       45.0
Secondary                           35.0       37.0       41.4
(iii) Primary Schooling, Grade 6, %
Repetition                          42.0       48.4       30.0
Dropout                             25.0       26.6       11.0
(iv) Primary School Completion Rate, %   82.5          62.3       85.0
(v) Primary Education, %
Grades 5 and 6 in "IITM"            14.0       14.3       25;0
(vi) Pass Rate, %, Secondary
School Entrance Exam                 40.0       45.0       45.0
(vii) Secondary-Education, % Enrolled
Lower Vocational                  28.5       30.0       30.0
Upper Science/Math/
Technical                         70.0       73.0       73.0
(viii) No. of Registered Apprentices   18,000    18,000            36,000
(ix) Trainer; Apprentice Ratio          1;100     1;200          1;100
(x) University Enrollment, % in
Science and Technology              50.0       52.0       55.0
Source;  Ministare de l'Education Nationale, Rapport Sur le VIeme Plan de
l'Education, 1982-86, Tunis, Novembre, 1981.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Fifth Education Project
Primary School Teachers (Grades 1-6):
Projected Demand and Supply
1982-1995 1/
1981/82     1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/9z
I.  Teaching Posts           25,400 2/   26,360   27,400   28,b40   29,630   30,630   31,440   32,150   32,800   33,490   34,180   34,890   35,630   36,400
II. Additional Needs
(a) for enrollment
increases                                    960    1,040    1,240         990    1,000        950       850       760       850       850       900       900       900
(b) for replacement 3/                  1,04U    1,770    1,800    1,860    1,97U    1,340    1,400    1,470    1,5UU    1,55V    1,600    1,70U    1,750
(c) Total                              2,000    2,810    3,040    2,850    2,970    2,290    2,250    2,230    2,35U    2,400    2,500    2,6UU    2,00U
III. Output 4/
(a) existing Primary
Teacher Training Colleges
(PTTCs)                                    1,000    1,000        900       900       900       900       900       900       700       700       700       700       700       '
(b) project PTTCs                          -         -         -         -         -      1,500    1,500    1,          2,35                2,35U     2,3 
(c) ToLal                               1,000    1,000        900       900       900    2,400    2,400    2,400    3,050    3,050    3,050    3,050    J,0)0
IV. Balance 5/                            - 1,00U   -1,810   -2,140   -1,950   -2,0/0          +llU      +150      +170    + 70O      + 650    + 550    + 45U    + 400
1/  Source; Ministry of Education (MOE).
2/  Approximately 10% of serving teachers are judged by MOE to be unqualified academically and pedagogically.
3/  The 500 secondary school graduates recruited each year under the Emergency Plan (from 1982/83 to 1986/87) will be given upgrading training beginning in
1987/88.  Annual attrition averages 3%, due inter alia to (a) the reassignment of teachers to other duties in the education administration, and (b) the
decision of some serving teachers to enter university.
4/  The progression rates in the four-year program of teacher training are 85% during the first two years and 95X the second two years.
5/ The Government has approved an MOE proposal for a crash program providing one year of pedagogical training to carefully selected secondary school
graduates for meeting part of the deficit in teachers during 1982/83-1986/87. The rest of the backlog will be covered subsequently by outputs from the
proposed project PTTCs. The surplus starting in 1987/88 is only apparent, since the MOE intends to retrain and promote an as yet undetermined number of
senior teachers to teach general subjects in the grades 7, 8, and 9 of the "Ecole de Base."
~31
fD'



- 36 -                      ANNEX B
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Fifth EdLucation Project
Project Institutions' Recurrent Expenditures, 1982-91
1982           1986            1991
GDP (at market prices)                            4,607.0         8,398.0         16,398.3
Government Recurrent Expenditures                   998.8        1,907.7           3,870.4
(% of GDP)                (21.6)         (22.7)            (23.6)
MOA Recurrent Expenditures                            56.6          114.0            240.0
(% of Government)                (5.7)          (6.0)            (6.2)
Education and Training:
* Project Institutions                              4.2             6.8             10.3
Other Institutions                                1.6             2.3              2.7
School Farms                                      3.1            4.9               7.0
Sub-Total                                         8.9           14.0              20.0
(% of MOA)                 (15.7)         (12.3)             (8.0)
Other Services/Administration                      47.7          100.0             220.0
MOE Recurrent Expenditures                          196.9           433.3            675.0
(% of Goverment)          (20.0)         (22.7)            (17.5)
Primary Education                                  82.6          156.0             213.0
(% of MOE)                (42.0)         (36.0)            (32.0
Secondary Education (General Vocational,
Technical                                          87.5          218.1             367.2
(Z of MOE)                (44.4)         (50.3)            (54.4)
Primary Teacher Training
* Four Project ENI                                                  1.2              2.3
Other Institutions                                1.5             2.5              4.5
Sub-Total                                         1.5            3.7               6.8
(% of MOE)                 (0.8)          (0.9)             (1.0)
Other Services/Administration                      25.3            55.5             88.0



- 37 -
ANNEX B
Table 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY TEAChER TRAINING COLLEGES. UNIT CAPITAL COST a/
AND AREAS PER STUDENT
Gross Area    Buildings &
Per Student   Site Work b/   Furniture  Equipment  Total
Type of Facilities            (mL)              -US$-
4 Primary Teacher
Training Institutesz
Academic & Communal      8.6 c/          2170 f/          393       857 /    3,420
Boarding                 9.5 d/          2,580 f/          428        107      3,115
Staff Housing          118.0 e/        31,250               -         -       31,250
a/ Based on unit cost prices without including professional fees and
contingencies.
b/ Cost of site works is estimated at about 15% of building cost.
c/ Bank median value for the same type of facilities for projects implemented
in FY 78/80 is 8.9 m2/student. Areas do not include covered sheds.
d/ Bank median value for the same type of facilities for projects implemented
in FY78/80 is 10.0 m2/student. Areas do not include covered sheds.
ei  Director's house has 148 m2; three staff houses have 108 m2 each.
f/ Cost of covered sheds included.
g/ Including kitchen equipment.



TIN IS 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-I1
F.-lan    T.I.1    L,1  F.-,  ,.I                                                                                                                     L-I          fonJ&~       -.1                      T-1 Ic-O T-Ol OF Tltl1 6-iC.                                       -t1    ZqCOSTS
TI M ...                            3          6         9        16        145      16~~~~                                                85      85         61        2  4  3  10,         80          479      559          5         32loo ao37 o16coc atto  O loat
EI-11- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~CItrtRt:05      .6cs
trooccog  Coctat        -          -         -            1    ~    ~~        ~ ~ ~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~ 6  9  16  145  161                                  41 - I   95        61        2121      37I         74          119     459          5          28       33        16          73     101       Ill         596      691         1.244
StoccoacySccOcls        -         -          -           TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  4t  6t  129     1,134  l1t?8          -                                                                                            149       1,202   1.350          15         120      135        75         183     212        066      1.509   1.693          3.13
coarlcotta                        -          -         ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~42  99  140  266    21.1394   2.660-                                                               -308                   2,492   2.100           31        149      280        53         396     439        392      3.127   3.519          6.202
56  132  188  357  3,010   3,36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  1~13      3,142   3.555          41         533      5276       71        516      599        515      4,195   4,720          6,427
lab-Total oorccolrccc                              ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~~         ~ ~~~130  29  al41  783  6.8 7I 1631  -               -         -              7j    103       lt          465      1       0.03           ,30 0.5 3            9 7       964   1,040         199      1.249   1.429    1.100         la9 1 1TITToTTo2,07
.10cMI OF  ETCU4OTol
FootP   ,oc  Occob-
Oolrc   ColiTta                     3.920       0.610   5.600         216        644      92         108        911 21.161         490        -         Is.       -_j84                                                                   3.296   8.190         418         130      919       963         524   0.339    6,2_217      4,19l.2T0.0
tccorco,,   Fccarcloc             -          -         --                                                                                                     --  -                           10        296      370          70         296      370          4          05       I9        16         St       71         90        166      460           821
Otohclool crrdt  -  -  -     -                                                                                                          9        3        51        301      564          17         316       193         4          16       20        16         59       35         91        191      060           911~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9      1130  34  7  36  13    1  201659  5  7  91  8387
lob-Totl 9FF                                                           9                                                                                                             9       150         603      754        151          612      163          a         51       1-9       12         10       10        191         12      9069
Aoo   Coa                                }L20       1,6980   1,600        400         900 1 1334         890      2-820      jj         410                  4800                  1 16    130        067      1 060 135 I's        a29-      L 16-3002- 5-91         583      1_3 23   1.939    1_172        1_937  3.100        7_118    1902.69039
Flyoloal  Cocttcttrclsa         ~~~~      ~~392  168  560        40         93      103        99      1.002  1,091           09                   10                     0        I        10          564     68         383       1,321   1,900
t,l,,  8ocrtct                               37       3124   1,160          69        145      210       053      1,244   1,991          61                   62       -             6       26        16        199      210      1,127        1 .931 71.110
MATOL FEIROECT  C050               5,149      2,172   7,311         5Ot      1,112   1,681    1.133    10.066  11.199             590       -         590        -           70      170       3317     1.320   1 ,611    7.718         14.900 22.618
E5, -Eqo    - act                   92.7   1,879 13.070          909      7.091   3.001    2.023    17_9u!  L9_299          1,053       -       1,053        -           303     303        601      2 .3517  2 ,9568    13,129     26.601 40P379



- 39 -
ANNEX B
Table 7
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$Millions)
Accumulated   Undisbursed
Calendar      Fiscal Year         Disbursements    Disbursements    Balance
Year       and Semester         Amount    %      Amount    X    Amount    %
---1983----     -
1/1 - 1983
2nd                0.6     2.2      0.6     2.2   26.4   97.8
----1984-----
1st                1.3     4.8      1.9     7.0   25.1   93.0
1/1 - 1984
2nd                3.6    13.3      5.5    20.4   21.5   79.6
----1985
1st                4.3    15.9      9.8    36.3   17.2   63.7
1/1 - 1985
2nd                5.3    19.6     15.1    55.9   11.9  44.1
----1986--
Ist                4.1    15.2     19.2    71.1    7.8   28.9
1/1 - 1986
2nd                4.0    14.8    23.2    85.9    3.8   14.1
1987 -------------
1st                2.8    10.4     26.0    96.3    1.0    3.7
1/1 - 1987
2nd                1.0     3.7     27.0   100.0    0.0    0.0
(Closing-----------------------------December--------------31-------1987_----__-
(Closing Date: December 31, 1987)






I BRD 16786
mo 90  1OQ                     I'loNOVEMBER 1982
TUNISIA
FIFTH EDUCATION  PROJECTerte
,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~v ,E & D I T E R R A PV E A A,    E A
t     New Primary Teacher Training Colleges
B 7         Equipment to Existing Agriculturol Secondary Schools            M o                       Guf of Tinis                                   37.
Equipment to Existing Higher Level Agricultural Institutes                                  G     of Tui
C    Equipment to Existing Hgr Level A    gricultural   iCenter iue Mat/TT NIS N                   $ 
Equipment to Existing National Agriclltural        .                                         sotet a
Instructor Training Center (Sidi  bTabet)        Belo .                   El Bob                    MnxoI Bo7 e lfa
0 Provincial Capitals         .,         Bau SLiernY\0 
Salt Lakes                     Jendouba.         0Tnhibor             7                     r r   Nabeul
Ports                    q..    Ghardimou    G                     _   -           Zoghouan
-    Internotional Airports     t                  /
Provincial Boundories            -            K/
Internotional Boundaries            i El Kef
|Sers    i Siaona                                          Gulf of Hammamnet
-36'                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36-
{ J > Ko m,ons X  gA/rouon
El 2  Kassel nes   ;g   ~ ~   ~~ Madia
l      \KSsousi
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
--35                                                                                                                        35oso  /'  Sa 
G u   f  o f  G    b e s
-34- '            ' .  -      1   1         C D  .\                                                                                                   346
j4~ Tozeur,  SDegr1v                                               Z-
Hou  Souk
(c             T;E uh-                                     --                     obe
FRANCE                        GVIA
^       1      .     9      .      <         , %  , ~~~~~~                                                 ~      ~~~~~33,  "TO rgtocume                J.3?-
/;;5   P AN             CA-T-                                                                                                     \f
/         )    S      ~~~~~~MAtTA\
KILOMETERS
\  ,r)   f  \                         0      20    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~40    <,0    80    100/ 
A L G E R I A
1   L I B Y A                \   jncceptance Of such bdundsr/ ts 9t stattrB of ant territory tL I B  'Y' A



