Report No. PIC745
Project Name    India-Maharashtra Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation...
Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Rehabilitation and Recovery
Project ID                INPA34162
Implementing Agency       Program Management Unit
Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
Government of Maharashtra
Mantralaya
Bombay 400032
Tel: 91-11-2023039/2854165
Fax: 91-11-20289
Date PID Prepared         March 1994
Projected Board Date      March 31, 1994
1.   Background.  Maharashtra is the third largest state both in terms
of land area (308,000 square kilometers) and population (78,700,000).
It is the Union's most heavily industrialized state with the highest
percentage (35.7%) of state revenues coming from the industrial sector
and a relatively low percentage coming from the agricultural sector
(21.3%). The region where the earthquake occurred is agricultural with
primary crops of mustard, sunflower oil, grapes and sugar cane.
2.   On Thursday 30th September, at 3.56 am, a series of earthquakes of
a magnitude of about 6.4 on the Richter scale shook the south eastern
region of the State of Maharashtra. The epicenter was located at
Killari in the Latur district, about 500 km east of Bombay. Major
damage was limited to the destruction of houses in a 40 km radius of the
epicenter. In the three worst affected districts of Latur, Osmanabad
and Solapur, 67 villages were severely damaged with an estimated 8,000
persons killed and 16,000 injured. Approximately 52,600 families were
left without homes about 180,000 other houses were damaged. Apart from
extensive damage to public buildings including offices, schools and
health buildings, there was generally limited damage to other
infrastructure. However, water supply was disrupted (in some areas
water table is said to have fallen and in other areas it has risen), and
electricity and telecommunication systems have suffered some damage.
3.   The deaths were mainly caused by the collapse of traditional
village houses which were of an extremely heavy construction.
Typically, the walls were 2-3 ft. thick and made of small stone
boulders (about 1 ft. in diameter) and bonded with dirt/clay. The
stones were irregular in shape, therefore having relatively little
binding and bearing capacity. The roofs were constructed with heavy
wooden beams and a light framing covered with about 12 to 18 inches of
dirt. During the quake, the walls shattered and the heavy roofs
collapsed, crushing the sleeping residents below.
4.   Government response.   The combined response of the GOI and GOM to
the disaster was rapid and effective. The GOM has also been commendably
fast at initiating plans for reconstruction and they have managed to



retain much of the momentum established by the relief operations. In
addition to drawing up a program for IDA funding, they have persuaded a
number of commercial and charitable organizations, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and other donors to sponsor the reconstruction of
a number of the smaller villages, totaling over 5000 houses. Several of
these organizations have made a quick start on the construction of their
designated villages.
5.   Seismicity of the region.   The northern portion of the Indian sub-
continent is seismically active and the causes are well understood. The
Himalayas form a belt of very high seismic activity, where two
continental plates collide. Further to the south, in the alluvial
region to the south of these mountains, earthquakes are considered to be
caused by fractures in major faults. However, the causes of earthquakes
in the stable crust of the Indian Peninsular Shield is less clearly
understood. Some faults that in the past had been associated with
seismic events were well demarcated, while the presence of others could
only be inferred. Although smaller tremors have been registered in this
region, available records show that relatively long periods of no
earthquake activity, alternating with short periods of activity.
6.   The Killari earthquake, of September 30, 1993, is the largest
earthquake to have been recorded in this general area, and one of the
most devastating earthquakes of its kind. High intensity tenors were
concentrated in a well defined area of about 10--15 km across. In this
early stage of analysis, when seismological information from the
aftershocks is still being gathered, only preliminary geological data
are available. No evidence of pre-earthquake faulting was found, nor
the evidence of prehistoric deformation in the morphology. Neither
geology nor historical seismicity offer clues to this earthquake.
7.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the project are: (a) to
assist with reconstruction in the earthquake affected area (restoration
of assets and basic services); (b) to increase the earthquake resistance
of buildings and infrastructure through the development of improved
standards for design and construction; and (c) to develop the ability of
the State of Maharashtra plan for and manage disasters.
8.   Project Framework.   Concurrent with the development of the
rehabilitation program, GOM prepared the program framework which
comprises of: (a) Rehabilitation Policy: The policy framework for the
rehabilitation program prepared by the GOM provides a clear statement of
objectives of the rehabilitation program by villages, household, and
individual. It defines the criteria for selecting which villages would
be relocated, and those where houses are to be reconstructed on their
original site. It also determines how and which households and
individuals would benefit from the program and clarifies the entitlement
of the more vulnerable groups in society including tenants, the
landless, as well as women and orphan children. The policy provides for
the affected persons to be resettled in socially, culturally and
economically self-sustaining communities with an emphasis upon their
social and kinship relations. It includes provisions for tenants and
encroachers who do not pay house-tax but whose houses have been damaged,
and the landless whose houses have not been damaged (as they lived in
huts which survived the earthquake). It would be accepted that this
- 2-



group is an integral part of the community upon which they depend for
socio-economic and cultural support; (b) Rehabilitation Action Plan
for those Affected by Land Acquisition. The GOM has prepared a
rehabilitation action plan to mitigate any adverse effects of land
acquisition for the relocation villages and the GOM plans to implement
this plan in a timely manner for each relocation village. Specifically,
this plan provides the following: (i) a list of all individuals from
whom land was acquired; (ii) a list of their respective land holdings,
before and after the acquisition program; (iii) a list of all those who
have been rendered landless or marginalized; (iv) a commitment to
undertake a survey to identify any others who may be affected by the
land acquisition program; (v) a list of benefits which affected
individuals are entitled under the Rehabilitation Policy with an
expected timetable for their distribution; (vi) list of other GOM and
GOI programs which are available in each village and a timetable for
their application; (vii) the budget for the rehabilitation action plan;
and (viii) a description of the proposed organizational structure for
implementing the plan, including appropriate grievance procedures; and
(c) Community Participation: To implement successfully both the
rehabilitation policy and program, the active participation of the
affected communities would be solicited. Ironically, in most countries,
democratic structures rarely allow full participation by all sections of
the community. Typically, elected leaders and representatives would not
consult all sections of the community, especially the most marginalized
groups. During the life of this project, community participation would
extend beyond obtaining consent from Sarpanchs, and would ensure that
the views of all sections of the community are sought, understood and
acted upon.   The involvement of communities in the rehabilitation
program would ensure that the people's concerns and needs are better
understood and incorporated in the plans. It would also permit the
communities to develop a stake in the rehabilitation process, rebuild
their self confidence and empower them to shape their own lives rather
than their remaining helpless victims of a disaster.
9.   Project Description.   This project would finance selected
components of the comprehensive rehabilitation program of the Government
of Maharashtra (GOM). The bulk of the expenditure would be for housing
reconstruction, repair and strengthening with more limited support for
infrastructure rehabilitation. Smaller but essential components are to
provide for social and economic rehabilitation and disaster management.
The project would also finance an earthquake monitoring and research for
the Government of India (GOI).
(A) GOM components include:
10. Housing. Relocation of 49 villages, comprising about 17,500
houses, to replace those totally destroyed or substantially damaged by
the earthquake, reconstruction of about 29,500 houses in-situ which have
been totally destroyed in villages where relocation not envisaged, the
repair of about 180,000 partially damaged houses, construction of 500
model houses to demonstrate the alternative methods of house
construction, and the pilot strengthening of 5000 vulnerable houses to
provide models for strengthening between two to four million houses in
neighbouring districts of a similar design and construction to those
destroyed by the earthquake. In the relocation villages, all families
-3 -



would be provided a plot of land and a core house of 0 square feet
usable area. Those with larger land holdings in the villages would be
entitled to a larger houses of either 400 or 750 square feet. The
additional floor area over 0 square feet would be financed by GOM and
treated as a loan. The respective plot sizes for three houses would be
1575 square feet, 3000 square feet and 5000 square feet. Housing
designs and village layouts have been developed, in consultation with
the beneficiaries.    Infrastructure:  Repair and reconstruction of
public buildings including schools, health centers and social service
facilities; and repair and strengthening of infrastructure including
roads, bridges and irrigation facilities; Social and Economic
Rehabilitation: A program of social, community and economic
rehabilitation, with a particular emphasis on the needs of women and
children; Disaster Management: Development of a disaster management
program for the State of Maharashtra; and Technical Assistance for
design, supervision and monitoring of project components, other
consultancy services and equipment.
(B) The project would support Government of India to develop a
seismic monitoring and research program;
11. Project cost and financing. The total project cost including
contingencies is US$328 million (including taxes and duties of US$15
million). The IDA Credit of US$246 million would finance 78t of the
total rehabilitation program. The GOM's contribution of US$40 million
will finance 12t of the project. NGOs and other donors are also
contributing an estimated US$41 million for the program. These include
10 million Pounds Sterling cofinancing by the British Government, which
has been agreed in principle. The Asian Development Bank will
contribute US$0.6 million in parallel financing for implementation
support. GOI contribution is US$1.0 million.
12. Implementation. The project would be implemented over a three year
period.   The project would be implemented by a Program Management Unit
(PMU), headed by the Secretary and Commissioner (Earthquake Relief and
Rehabilitation) who would also be the nominated Project Director. The
Project Director will be assisted by a team of management consultants
and other experts to ensure the outputs are delivered in the manner
planned and within the targeted completion date. The Project Director
has been delegated substantial administrative and financial powers to
facilitate speedy implementation. The Project Director will also be
supported by a Chief Engineer and other technical staff seconded to the
PMU from government departments. The PMU will use consultant services
extensively for detailed preparation and supervision of works. The PMU
will be overseen by the Central Implementation Group (CIG) under the
chairmanship of the Chief Secretary. Policy directives will be provided
by Cabinet subcommittee headed by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra.
13. Environmental Impact. This project would raise the quality of the
environment in the new villages above standard of to be found in the
older villages in the region. The more generous provision of standpipes
for drinking water and the twin pit latrines in every dwelling unit
would make a major contribution to the health and welfare of the local
population. However, no project which involves the relocation of such
a large number of people to have only positive environmental impacts.
- 4 -



To examine the potential environmental affects of each new village, GOM
will provide an environmental impact statement, and to demonstrate how
any impacts would be mitigated. The issues to be addresses would
include surface water drainage; water supply; sanitation; and any
reduction in the land available for agriculture.
14. Social Issues. To minimize any negative impacts of the
resettlement program the GOM has prepared and published a
rehabilitation policy and program, and has made arrangements for
implementation plans to be discussed in each village. Appropriate
appeals procedures have also been built in. The agreed planning process
is community-based so as to ensure, as far as possible, that the designs
of the new houses and villages are acceptable to the people who would
live in them.
15. Training of Construction Pesonnel. A primary objective of the
housing program is the transfer of technology to small contractors and
local artisans so as to promote the use of earthquake-resistant building
technology and the safe use of local building materials, particularly
stone. The program would develop three approaches to meet this
objective: (a) establishment of building centers by the Housing and
Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO) for training village builders and
artisans of various profiles; (b) introduction of new least-cost
building materials; and (c) provision of training programs organized by
a PMU. The structured program of training by the PMU would include the
use of specialists to train the trainee instructors who would, in turn,
train local artisans and NGOs. The training would cover hands-on
building works, educational materials and training classes throughout
the 13 districts where stone masonry has been used to build the
traditional village houses. The PMU would organize the training through
individual specialists or through an appropriate qualified institution.
Proposals would be developed by the PMU for review and approval by the
Association.
16. Benefits and risks. The project would bring immediate and
sustained economic and social benefits to the region affected by the
earthquake. It would build upon the foundations provided by the relief
measures of the GOI and GOM and benefit from the continued momentum of
the rehabilitation program. It would rebuild the housing destroyed by
the disaster and give an important boost to the local economy and
provide economic and social support to disadvantaged sections of the
community, particularly women and children. Longer term benefits would
be generated from the strengthening of infrastructure and housing in
the region, and the development of comprehensive disaster management and
seismic research and monitoring programs.
17. Rebuilding in a proven earthquake zone can never be risk free.
However, the expert advice available within India is of a very high
quality and the Association is confident that the design standards and
technology proposed will be appropriate for the level of seismic risk.
The major risk for the project is that the GOM will fail to implement
the project in a timely fashion. If it were to take much more than
three years to implement, many of the benefits of an emergency project
would be dissipated. The GOM has already taken steps to mitigate this
risk through the establishment and staffing of the PMU, and the
- 5 -



preparation of a detailed implementation program. In addition
procedures have been introduce which should ensure the timely provision
of funds, the prompt award of contracts and effective contract
management.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



