Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19218
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2594-IN)
June 14, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



-_-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Indian Rupee (Rs.)
AppraisalYear  (1994)US$1.00  =    Rs. 31.00
Intervening Years     US$1.00  =    Rs. 34.70
Completion Year (1998) US$1.00  =    Rs. 41.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot          =          0.3048 meters
1 mile          =          1.6093 kilometers
1 square foot   =          0.0929 square meters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIG         Central Implementation Group
DE          Deputy Engineer
DMIS        Disaster Management Information System
DRC         District Resource Center
DST         Department of Science and Technology
GOI         Government of India
GOM         Government of Maharashtra
HUDCO       Housing and Urban Development Corporation
IMD         India Meteorological Department
JR          Junior Engineer
MAVIM       Mahila Arthik Vikas Mahamandal
MELTRON  Maharashtra Electronics Corporation
MRSAC       Maharashtra Remote Sensing Applications Center
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
PMU         Project Management Unit
R&S         Repair and Strengthening
SE          Superintending Engineer
SPARC       Society for Promotion of Area Resources Centers
TISS        Tata Institute of Social Sciences
UNCHS       United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
VLC         Village Level Committee
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:     Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:        Jelena Pantelic



- II -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY.
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ................................................................1
B. Evaluation and Achievement of Objectives ................................ ...................           5
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................................      6
D. Project Sustainability ...............................................................                  9
E. IDA  Performance ................................................................                        0
F. Borrower Performance ...............................................................                   11
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................................                  11
H. Future Operation ...............................................................                       13
I.  Key Lessons Learned and Photographs of Project .........................................              14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .18
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credit .19
Table 3:  Project Timetable .20
Table 4:    Credit Disbursement: Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5A:  Performance Indicators .21
Table 5B:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .22
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Oper'ation .23
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .24
Table 8A: Project Costs .25
Table 8B:  Project Financing .26
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .26
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .27
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .29
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire with Plan for Future Operations .............................                   30
B. Borrower's Evaluation.
B-1. Government of Maharashtra ..........................................................       42
B-2. Government of India-Department of Science and Technology ........                          54
MAP:   IBRD 25479R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2594-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maharashtra Emergency
Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, for which Credit 2594-IN in the amount of SDR 177 million
(US$ 246 million equivalent) was approved on March 31, 1994 and made effective on June 27,
1994. SDR 21.0 million (about US$30,235,170.00 equivalent) of projected savings from the
Credit was canceled in December 16, 1996. This was an emergency investment operation.
TheBritish Government provided co-financing in the sum ofUK£10 million. An additional
UK£5 million were made available in parallel through the former British Overseas Development
Administration, now Department for International Development (DFID) to assist project
implementation. The Asian Development Bank and the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) contributed parallel assistance of US$600,000 each, to support project implementation.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1998, after two extensions totaling one and a half years.
The Credit was fully disbursed, and the final disbursement of US$78,921.05 was made on March
3 1999. The UK£LO million co-financing was disbursed during the first year of the project.
The project team comprising Jelena Pantelic (SASIN), Chandra Godavitarne and Allyson
Thirkell (Consultants) prepared the ICR. A separate external consultant, Sati Achath, traveled to
Maharashtra, visited the field, had discussions with stakeholders to make an independent
assessment and prepared a report, the contents of which have been incorporated into this ICR.
The ICR was reviewed by: Ms. Frannie Humplick (Sector Manager, Infrastructure Sector Unit,
South Asia Region), Richard Beardmore (Team Leader, India Urban and Water), Mr. Robert
Panfil (SASIN-Quality Assurance), and Peer Reviewers: Ms. Alcira Kreimer (TWUGL), Eugene
McCarthy (LCSFP), Ms. Marjorie Greene, (Special Events Coordinator, Earthquake Engineering
Research Institute, California), and Miha Tomazevic (Director, Slovenian Building Research and
Civil Engineering Institute, Ljubljana, Slovenia). The Borrower provided comments on the ICR,
assisted in the preparation of the statistical information, and provided evaluations that are included
in the Appendix B. The co-financing agency (DFID) was provided a copy of this report for
comment. In addition, Irene Christy, SASIN, provided active support in the preparation of the
report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in November 1998. It is based on a review of the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President and Technical Annex, the legal documents, supervision reports and project files, as well
as field visits and discussions with representatives of beneficiaries, non-governmental agencies,
field project staff, officials of the Project Management Unit, implementing agencies, and project
consultants.






-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2594-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.   Objectives of the project were to: (i) assist with rehabilitation and reconstruction in the
earthquake affected areas (restoration of assets and basic services), (ii) increase the earthquake
resistance of buildings and infrastructure through the development of improved standards for
design and construction, and (iii) develop the ability of the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) to
respond more effectively to natural disasters, including earthquakes. An additional project
objective was to improve scientific monitoring and the research capability of the Government of
India (GOI) in order to improve scientific knowledge of seismic activity in the Peninsular Shield
of India.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.   Project implementation experience was highly rewarding, especially because of the
challenges faced during this process. The project provided all stakeholders new experiences, and
the opportunity to: adopt new management methods and implementation strategies, fully delegate
administrative and financial powers to the project unit, develop partnerships with NGO's and
beneficiaries, address gender issues relating to women, and utilize the expertise of private sector
consultants.
3.   Despite the challenges encountered, the GOM's rehabilitation program was successfully
implemented. The results are: restoration of housing for 225,000 families; repair and
reconstruction of infrastructure facilities including roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, orphanages
and civic amenities; restoration of economic assets lost; preparation and dissemination of
Guidelines and Manual for Non-Engineered Masonry Construction; implementation of a statewide
disaster management plan; and full disbursement of the Credit. A small component to restore
monuments component was cut back due to problems related to management by the concerned
implementing department.
4.   The GOI's seismic strengthening component (costing US$8 million) was substantially
completed with procurement of modern seismic equipment which were installed in the monitoring
stations in the Indian Peninsular Shield, and setting up of a National Seismological Data Center.
However, the GOI Department of Science and Technology has placed restrictions on free access
to data by researchers.



H ii -
5.   A majority of the challenges stemmed from  continuing disagreements, disputes, and
litigation, over damage assessment. The number of complaints totaled about 7 percent of the
number of beneficiaries, and about 2 percent was redressed. These included complaints regarding
buildings allegedly not surveyed despite two surveys, and the survey categorization, in the
beneficiary's view, not consistent with the extent of damage. Even partially damaged unoccupied
houses deteriorated rapidly, and some of the claims were difficult to substantiate. Since the
financial benefit was linked to the damage category, there was considerable pressure from
beneficiaries to change to categories with a larger entitlement. The second major challenge was
the mobilization about 200,000 families to undertake their own housing repair and reconstruction
activities. The task of motivating and informing beneficiaries to repair and strengthen houses, and
to use new building methods was a time-consuming exercise,, which took nearly two years to get
into full swing. The final challenge arose from the communities' involvement and interest in
supervision of construction in the relocation villages. This resulted in slowing down construction
works, interference with contractors, and on one occasion, closing down the site for over eight
months.
Project Sustainability
6.   The ownership of new houses constructed (about 70 percent of project cost) is with
individual families. The beneficiaries place a high value on their new houses, have already
commenced extensions, and will maintain them as necessary. The GOM plans to create a Disaster
Management Unit in the Department of Rehabilitation of GOM as a permanent unit, along with
specialist staff to operate the satellite communications network and disaster management
information system (DMIS), and has made budget provision for these operations for FY00. The
Center for Disaster Management at the Yashwantrao Chavan Academy for Development
Administration (YASHADA), which coordinated the preparation of the response plans for 25
districts, will be strengthened to be the primary training center in disaster management. The
GOM will make annual budget provisions for maintenance of the new off-site infrastructure
constructed, under its normal maintenance budget. The capacity of the local governments (Zilla
Parishads/Gram Panchayats) to operate and maintain the physical infrastructure and the water
supply system would depend on their ability to enhance resources and provide staff for operations.
This is not certain, although the new houses have been registered and levy of land taxes and
property taxes can begin. As these are yet to begin, and are dependent on the political will of the
local governments, sustainability of these assets is not certain at this stage. The GOI will make
annual budget provision for maintenance of the seismic monitoring facilities set up as part of the
project.
Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives
7.   The GOM successfully overcame the project implementation challenges and achieved all
project objectives. Sustained achievement of these objectives in the future would be affected by:
(i) the non-adoption of earthquake resistant features in house construction in this earthquake-
prone region; and (ii) the lack of capacity in the local governments to enforce building regulations,
and operate and maintain assets created. The unwillingness by the GOI agencies to share data
with other researchers is unlikely to achieve the objective of advancing scientific knowledge of



* iii -
seismicity in the region.
IDA Performance
8.  IDA responded to the Government's request for assistance within two weeks of the
earthquake. Project approval took about five months as a number of issues relating to damage
assessment, project management and strategy for implementation took some time to develop and
agree. IDA staff worked closely with the GOM throughout the project.
Borrower Performance
9.   Performance by the GOM has been consistently pro-active and of high caliber. The GOM:
(i) actively engaged beneficiaries and NGOs in project planning and implementation; (ii) appointed
capable and experienced staff and consultants for project implementation and management; (iii)
provided funds as required; (iv) successfully managed to resist public and legal demands to change
the scope of the project; (v) developed the strategy for the repair and strengthening component
after much consultation and study, although the task took about two years; and (vi) stopped the
disruptive transfers of District Collectors, whose continued leadership was essential for
implementation of the repair and strengthening component. Performance by the Department of
Science and Technology (DST) and agencies it coordinated was reasonably satisfactory.
Project Outcome
10.  The main project outcome has been the successful completion of repair and reconstruction
of 225,000 homes for nearly one million people affected by the earthquake, in one of the largest
rehabilitation projects (costing about US$348 million) implemented in a period of four and a half
years. Specific project outcomes include: (i) preparation and use of simple and effective guidelines
for earthquake-resistant features for non-engineered masonry construction; (ii) construction of
28,000 new houses in 52 relocation villages; (iii) repair, reconstruction and strengthening of about
197,000 houses under the repair and strengthening (R&S) component; (iv) repair and
reconstruction of roads, bridges, irrigation structures, water supply systems, civic amenities, and
social infrastructure; (v) replacement of economic assets lost in the earthquake; (vi) mobilization
of beneficiaries and community-based organizations and NGOs as partners in implementation;
(vii) implementation of a statewide multi hazard disaster management system including a GIS-
based disaster management information system, a modern VHF and V-SAT communications to
deal with disasters, to undertake mitigation measures and reduce future losses; (viii) creating a
cadre of highly experienced officials in Maharashtra with experience in improved project
management systems; and (ix) implementation of measures to empower women (home ownership
for widows, joint property titles, revolving fund, etc.).
11. The project has been nominated for the United Nations (UN)-Sasakawa Award in Disaster
Prevention, and has been selected by United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS)
HABITAT as one of the best 100 projects in human settlement.



- iv -
Summary of Findings and Future Operation Plans
12. Overall, the performance by the GOM exceeded expectations, and the rehabilitation
program of the GOM  has been successfully completed.  A number of innovative project
implementation procedures and management systems were adopted. The GOM, communities,
NGOs and consultants developed a collaborative partnership for project implementation. The
Credit has been fully disbursed. GOM has prepared a satisfactory plan for future operation.
However, the local governments (Zilla Parishads/Gram Panchayats) are weak, and would
depend on the GOM for support to operate and maintain facilities created under the project.
13. The GOI Department of Science and Technology (DST) functioning as the umbrella agency
for a number of research and service agencies completed most of the seismic monitoring and
research component. GOI has not agreed to share data from the National Seismological Data
Center with other researchers.  The DST is expected to budget funds for operation and
maintenance of the facilities created.
Key Lessons Learned for Future Projects
14. Key lessons learned are: (i) long-term disaster management planning and management
should form part of the Bank assistance strategy for emergency rehabilitation projects; (ii) damage
assessment criteria should be: appropriate for local conditions, include fewer categories,
technically specific, widely publicized, and without room for different interpretations; (iii)
importance of ownership of solutions by potential beneficiaries to ensure sustainability; (iv) the
desirability of partnership of government, beneficiaries, community-based women's organizations
and NGOs to ensure sustainable development; (v) the need for economic and social rehabilitation
as well as long-term disaster management and planning; (vi) demonstration that project
implementation can be assured through a fully empowered project management unit with
competent leadership; (vii) the need to address capacity of local governments and impact on
sustainability, and a long-term approach to maintenance and maintenance funding, and (viii)
project design for emergency projects should allow for a longer project period than the typical
three years for developing and implementing disaster management systems.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(CREDIT 2594-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Background
1.   The State. Maharashtra is the third largest state both in terms of land area (309,000 square
kilometers) and population (79,000,000). It is India's most heavily industrialized state with the
highest percentage (35.7%) of state revenues contributed by the industrial sector and a relatively
low percentage coming from the agricultural sector. The region where the earthquake occurred is
agricultural with primary crops of mustard, sunflower, sugar cane, and grapes.
2.   The Earthquake. A series of earthquakes of magnitude of about of 6.4 on the Richter scale
struck the southeastern region of Maharashtra at 3.56 AM on September 30, 1993. The epicenter
was near the village of Killari located in the Latur district, about 300 miles south east of Mumbai.
A number of aftershocks followed, and since then, tremors have been felt in the region, including
a tremor of magnitude of about 3.4 on the Richter scale in December 1997.
.  -The earthquake severely affected 67 villages in the districts of Latur and Osmanabad where
about 8,000 people were killed and 16,000 were injured. Considerable damage also took place in
eleven other districts including Satara. In total, approximately 225,000 houses were destroyed or
damaged, and more than 58,000 families were left homeless.
4.   The deaths were mainly caused by collapse of old traditional village houses that were of an
extremely heavy construction. Typically, the walls were 4 -5 feet thick and made of small stone
boulders (about 1 ft. nominal size) and bonded with dirt/clay. The stones were irregular in shape,
therefore having relatively little binding and bearing capacity. The roofs were constructed with
wooden beams and a light framing covered with 1-2 ft. of dirt. During the quake, the walls
shattered and the heavy roofs collapsed, crushing the sleeping residents below. It is reported that
approximately 2.5 million houses of the same type of construction still exist in this region.
5.   Apart from extensive damage to public buildings, especially school buildings, damage also
occurred to roads, bridges, water towers, electricity and telecommunication systems.
6.   Seismicity of the Regioni. The northern portion of the Indian sub-continent is earthquake-
prone, and the causes of seismicity are well understood. However, seismicity in the relatively



- 2 -
stable crust of the Indian Peninsular Shield are less clearly understood. Some faults that in the
past had been associated with seismic events were weil demarcated, while the presence of others
could only be inferred. Although smaller tremors have been registered in this region, available
records show relatively long periods of no earthquake activity, alternating with short periods of
greater earthquake activity. A previous major earthquake in this region occurred on September
13, 1967, of magnitude 6.5 on the Richter scale, near Koyna dam in the Satara District of
Maharashtra. Some scientists speculate a correlation between the increase in frequency and
intensity of tremors and the reservoir filling that began in 1962.
7.   The Killari earthquake of September 30, 1993, was the largest earthquake to have been
recorded in the region covering Latur and Osmanabad districts, and one of the most devastating
earthquakes of its kind. For a year and a half prior to this date, the region had been experiencing
more pronounced seismic activity.
8.   Soil Conditions. Although the region is arid with summer temperatures of 45 degrees
Centigrade, the soil is fertile arJd productive. These fertile lands adjacent to the rivers are
comprised of expansive clayey soils (black cotton soil) up to seven feet thick in places.
9.   Social and C'ultulral Con7text. The communities in the region have extended families with
married sons living in the same complex. As families grow, houses are expanded to accommodate
the new sub-families. Houses have small decorative entrances, rooms to entertain visitors next to
the entrance, and rooms built around a courtyard in the rear, which provides privacy for women.
These communities are male-dominated, and hereditary rights pass on only to male members of
families.
10. IDA Response. The Bank fielded a reconnaissance mission within ten days of the
earthquake. The framework for damage assessment and other project preparation steps were
discussed and quickly agreed.
11.  Bank Approach to Project Preparationi. Based on the findings of a larger mission in
November 1993, the following elements were considered necessary to develop an appropriate
rehabilitation program: (i) participation of beneficiaries to ensure ownership and enhance
sustainability; (ii) a clear and technically specific damage assessment to limit political pressures to
expand the program; (iii) simple earthquake-resistant features for non-engineered masonry
construction that could be adopted and applied by the villagers; (iv) the use of locally available
building material as much as possible; (v) a policy for rehabilitation, and a framework for an
efficient project implementation that was to be agreed before project approval; (vi) grievance
redressal measures to ensure fair play and transparency; (vii) consideration of the plight of
widows who became destitute due to traditional lack of hereditary rights; and (viii) introduction
of disaster management as part of the government's long-termi strategy for disaster mitigation and
loss reduction.
12. Perceptions of the Affected Persotns. The design of the rehabilitation program was, to a
degree, influenced by government decisions, social and cultural considerations, and some
prejudices. These were: (i) the scale and circumstances of the deaths that occurred; (ii) the
perception that 'stone kills' and hence could not be used again for building; (iii) the belief that



- 3 -
black cotton soil was the cause of house collapses, hence new houses had to be built on hard soils;
(iv) families so traumatized that they would not even sleep inside the new houses for a while; (v)
choice of light-weight but climatically unsuitable galvanized iron sheets for roofing in rehabilitated
houses; (vi) while stone was not used in re-construction, an oveiwhelming preference developed
for brick which is not widely available in the area; (vii) community preference for moving en
mnasse to firm ground where there was no black cotton soil, (viii) preference for framed reinforced
concrete structures similar to some houses of this type that were constructed by local
charities/business houses prior to the Bank-assisted project; and (ix) the belief that traditional
village layouts had to be 'modernized' to grid layouts akin to urban areas.
13. Commitment Made by the Government. Before the Bank commenced discussions on the
rehabilitation program, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) had agreed to: reconstruct all
houses that were destroyed, relocate all villages located on black cotton soil; construct about
25,000 temporary shelters of galvanized iron sheets with about 400 square feet for each family;
and allocate about 10 villages to local business houses, national and international charities for
reconstruction of whole villages wilth the only requirement that three house types of 250 square
feet, 400 square feet and 750 square feet be constructed.
14.  Framework for Project Fornulation.  The Bank project set a number of principles for
project formulation: (i) damage assessment criteria based on the International Association of
Earthquake Engineering (IAEE); (ii) criteria for relocation of villages eni masse, thus limiting the
number of villages to be relocated to 52; (iii) simple earthquake resistance features for new
construction and for strengthening of damaged houses; (iv) community participation as a formal
process for project implementation, through consultations with individual communities on site
selection, village layouts, house designs, and plot allocations, and promoting Village Level
Committees (VLC) for monitoring of construction, plot allocation and maintenance of assets
created; (v) NGOs participation in project activities including dissemination of information and
training, to assist beneficiaries in the construction of their houses, and to demonstrate the use of
available local material for reconstruction; (vi) quality assurance through independent consultants;
(vii) special measures to empower women through joint ownership of properties, special
programs for skills training, and a self help credit organization for women; (viii) programs to care
for orphans through construction of orphanages; and (ix) social and economic rehabilitation of
beneficiaries.
15.  The Project. As formulated at appraisal, project components included: (a)for the State of
Maharashtra (i) reconstruction of 52 new villages including 28,000 new houses and associated
infrastructure; (ii) repair and strengthening of 211,000 houses that were partially damaged, of
which approximately 30,000 were to be re-built in situ; (iii) pilot. strengthening of 5,000
undamaged but vulnerable houses to demonstrate strengthening techniques; (iv) construction of
500 model houses to demonstrate construction with earthquake resistant features; (v) restoration
of infrastructure such as roads, bridges, buildings, water supply, and monuments; (vi) economic
rehabilitation of families who lost their economic means of livelihood, such as livestock and
artisan kits; (vii) social rehabilitation through construction/repair of schools, hostels for women,
orphanages, creches for children, district resource centers for women, and hospitals; (viii)
preparation and implementation of a statewide disaster management plan for Maharashtra; and (b)
for Government of India, implemented through the Department of Science and Technology



-4 -
(DST): (i) a seismic monitoring and research component to upgrade seismic monitoring facilities
in the Indian Peninsular Shield, and (ii) setting up a National Seismological Data Center to receive
real time information of seismic activity, and to make data available on-line to all researchers, to
improve scientific knowledge on seismicity in the region.
16. InstitutionalArrangements. The following institutional arrangements were put in place for
project implementation and management: (i) a Rehabilitation Policy, Project Implementation Plan
and Project Management Plan approved by the GOM Cabinet; (ii) a Project Management Unit
with all Cabinet powers delegated to the Project Director, thus creating an autonomous unit with
the necessary administrative and financial powers; (iii) the Central Implementation Group headed
by the Chief Secretary of the State to coordinate and monitor project activities; (iv) a project
management and monitoring system supported by project management consultants; (v)
consultants to carry out social mobilization, assure beneficiary participation, and design and
supervise the relocation villages; (vi) private sector consultants for project implementation,
management and monitoring; (vii) the District Administration headed by District Collectors fully
responsible for implementation of the repair strengthening (R&S) program, including procedures
for transfer of cash installments, setting up materials stores and financial controls at the District
level; (viii) about 700 engineers to manage the repair and strengthening program; (ix) NGO's
assigned a formal role to take part in the rehabilitation program; (x) procedures for beneficiaries
to make decisions on planning and overseeing of implementation, including creation of Village
Level Committees to play a key participatory role; (xi) a voice for communities and NGOs in
decision-making regarding design and construction works in the large and complex owner-driven
repair and strengthening component; (xii) a Disaster Mitigation Council headed by the Chief
Secretary of Maharashtra and preparation of a disaster management plan for the state; and (xiii) a
three-tier grievance redressal mechanism starting with the Village Level Committee, the District
Collector, and finally, the Project Director of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
17. Environment. The project was classified as Category B. Overall, the project had a positive
environment impact. In respect of each of the new relocation village, the GOM prepared an
environmental statement prior to commencement of physical planning, and consultations with the
communities. In the case of only one village (Makni), located in a disused quarry, serious
environmental concerns arose regarding its suitability for housing development due to the
likelihood of water logging and lack of adequate drainage. Mitigation measures including major
earthworks to grade and landscape the site, retaining walls and drainage were implemented prior
to commencement of construction.
18. The Government of India's program for strengthening seismic monitoring and research was
coordinated by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), and implemented by a
consortium of research institutes. The largest of these were the National Geophysical Research
Institute (NGRI), Hyderabad, and the India Meteorology Department (IMD). An International
Advisory Committee was set up to advise on technical matters and a National Steering Committee
was also set up under the Secretary of Science and Technology, GOI. Procurement of equipment
under this component was carried out by two of the larger agencies under the DST umbrella.



-     -
B. Evaluation and Achievement of Objectives
19.  Evaluation of Project Objectives.  Project objectives were to assist GOM  in the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of earthquake affected areas, formulation of earthquake resistant
features for building construction, and development of a long-term disaster management plan; and
to assist the Government of India to strengthen its capacity for seismic monitoring and research.
The first objective was appropriate considering the severity of the earthquake that caused
considerable loss of life, and damage to property. The second objective of developing earthquake
resistant features for buildings was an essential pre-requisite, as the Marathwada region has
continued to experience seismic activity, and has over 2.5 million vulnerable houses of similar
construction that caused heavy casualties. The third objective of long-term disaster management
was essential for a state that has frequent natural disasters due to floods, droughts and, recent
increased seismic activity. Two critical decisions that should have featured prominently in project
formulation are:  sharing of seismological data with all researchers to advance scientific
knowledge, and cost sharing for rehabilitation as full grant programs are not affordable nor
sustainable.
20. Achievement of Objectives. All project objectives relating to the GOM component have
been achieved: (i) Rehabilitation and recon7struction has been achieved with the completion of the
repair, strengthening and construction of 225,000 houses, public and community infrastructure,
and social rehabilitation programs. A small component of monuments repair was only partially
completed. Completion of a small number of houses and commissioning of communications
facilities are expected by June 1999  (ii) Improved earthquake resistance of buildings has been
achieved through simple and effective earthquake resistant features introduced in all construction,
with wide acceptance and use by beneficiaries, and the training of about 7,000 artisans in the
earthquake-resistant building technology. The Government of Maharashtra (GOM) will ensure
that local governments (Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats) enforce these requirements in
future building construction in the earthquake-prone areas. (iii) Capacity building to respond
more effectively to manage fuiture natural disasters was achieved through setting up a modem
disaster management apparatus in the state, and assisting the Government of India to strengthen
its capability to undertake more effective seismic monitoring and research. The GOM's disaster
management plan, financed by the GOM, the Credit and the UK Government's Department for
International Development (DFID), comprises vulnerability and risk analysis methodology, state
and district plans, GIS-based Disaster Management Information System (DMIS) for all districts at
1:250,000 scale and six districts at 50,000 scale, an emergency operations center in state
headquarters, control rooms in all divisional and district headquarters, intra-district VHF network
for the entire state and inter-district V-SAT and e-mail network for the entire state. At the GOI
level, the project provided high technology equipment to improve seismic monitoring and data
collection, and research. Sharing of data from the National Seismological Data Center with other
researchers is unlikely to occur due to the reluctance by DST to share information.
21.  A number of factors contributed to the achievement of project objectives. These included:
(i) the project management and implementation framework which provided for an autonomous
Project Management Unit with financial and administrative powers fully delegated to the Project
Director, having jurisdiction over a number of implementing departments; (ii) continuous quality
assurance and technical audit carried out by independent consultants reporting to the Project



- 6 -
Director on quality issues, asset verification, and meeting program objectives; (iii) the extensive
use of private sector specialist consultants; (iv) the implementation strategy that included
participation by beneficiaries, community-based women's organizations and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in project planning monitoring, construction, construction supervision,
information dissemination and facilitation; (v) development, dissemination and use of simple and
effective technology for earthquake resistant construction of dwellings; and (vi) the commitment
and support of the political leadership.
22.  The nature and scale of participation within communities was unprecedented in this large
and complex rehabilitation project, and has led to the building of social capital within
comrnunities, such as mahila mandals, Village Level Committees (VLC) and community-based
organizations. Most importantly, it allowed women to participate in administrative structures
(especially in the R&S program), where they maintained close contact with village level groups,
taluka officials, NGOs and junior engineers to facilitate implementation, report on progress and
potential problems, and to provide feedback on achievement of project objectives. Participation of
these social groups helped improve structures of accountability, greater dialogue, and contributed
to good governance at the local level.
23. The Mahila Mandals (community-based women's organizations) were inducted through a
social development consultant - SPARC (Society for Promotion of Areas Resource Centers), to
assist in the R&S program in the following manner: (1) SPARC supported the formation of
Mahila Mandals, and briefed them on their proposed role; (ii) Mahila Mandals established
contact with community leaders; (iii) Mahila Mandals recruited Samvad Sahayaks (village
volunteers) from the same villages, and advised the District Collector, who would reimburse
Mahila Mandals the honoraria paid to Samvad Sahayaks; (iv) SPARC provided training for
Samvad Sahayaks in earthquake resistant construction (v) the Samvad Sahayaks were dispersed
in 1300 villages of Latur and Osmanabad; (vi) Samavad Sahayaks worked with house owners and
junior engineers to spread the message about the R&S program. As a result, house owners were
motivated to repair and reconstruct their houses according to their preferences, leading to
personal investments of time, labor, resources and finance in addition to the grant given by the
GOM. Another positive experience was the use of two NGOs for post-relocation activities to
build local capacity within community-based organizations (CBOs) and village groups to ensure
that information and training targeted communities and provided a sustainable local base of
activities. Monthly NGO meetings were held with the District Collectors to discuss progress,
problems and other issues, ensuring a close working relationship between NGOs and the district
administration.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
24.  Major factors that affected project implementation resulting in delays and disputes were: the
fully grant-based program that encouraged more demands, increased dependence on the state and
reduced motivation of beneficiaries; weaknesses in damage assessment process; complexity of the
owner-driven repair and strengthening program; litigation; contractor performance; and staff
related problems. These factors are summarized under the following categories:



-7 -
(a) Grant-based Program. The fully grant-based rehabilitation program made it difficult to
motivate the beneficiaries to take control of their own housing reconstruction. It served to
increase dependency on the state, with the exception of beneficiaries in the repair and
strengthening program, who made contributions averaging between 10 to 20 percent of the
construction cost. The feasibility of introducing risk insurance should be explored.
(b) Damage Assessment and Beneficiary Lists. Apparent deficiencies in the three attempts
at damage assessment, and the time taken to finalize beneficiary lists in the early stages of the
project due to disputes and disagreements. Throughout the project period, there were continuing
demands for inclusion of more beneficiaries in the program. The decision by the newly elected
State Government (of 1995) to expand the beneficiary list resulted in a flood of new applications
(about 150,000), until the gravity of the decision was recognized and was subsequently revoked.
Litigation by over 70 petitioners resulted in adverse lower courts orders including survey/re-
survey of 63 villages, until the Supreme Court suspended all litigation at lower courts, as a result
of a petition by the GOM. In total about 17,000 complaints or claims were received, and about
4,000 cases were redressed, amounting to about 1.8 percent of the total number of beneficiaries.
Damage assessment was done in accordance with the International Association of
Earthquake Engineering (IAEE) classification of five categories. In this case, it was difficult to
differentiate damage between Category 2 and 3, and such a categorization was not necessary as
the entitlement was the same for both categories. Categories were subsequently reduced to three.
Although damage assessment was done more than once, problems persisted because: damage
assessment was not rigorous enough, damage was expressed in general terms amenable to varying
interpretations, guidelines for damage assessment lacked precise technical definition, the IAEE
damage assessment categories were not modified to suit the specific conditions of this earthquake,
and damage assessment had no relation to the intensity of the earthquake and the assistance
package.
(c) Commtnity Participation. While participation by stakeholders was successful, and
justified the adopted strategy, it took time for the field staff, beneficiaries and NGOs to develop
harmonious working relationships. In the end, the NGOs played a major role in the construction
of over 6,000 houses on behalf of beneficiaries. Some villagers/VLCs reneged on community-
ratified agreements, held up construction starts, demanded bifurcation of villages or new
relocation sites, dictated the house building material, delayed house allocations, and interfered
with contractor's works. In the epicenter village (Killari), unruly groups manhandled contractors'
staff, and caused considerable damage to partially constructed houses, resulting in a work
stoppage of over eight months.
Community participation was more problematic in larger villages and those with strong
political leadership. Problem areas were: the difficulty of information dissemination to the family
level, decision-making occurred mainly through Village Level Committees; decisions on plot
allocation, eligibility, construction quality and other issues remained controversial and difficult to
resolve. Disputes and misunderstandings thus persisted.



- 8 -
(d)  Implementationi Strategy for Repair and Strengthening. Motivating the 211,000
families to undertake repair and strengthening (R&S) of their houses, and setting up the
procedures for this operation proved to be one of the greatest challenges to project managers.
Initially, beneficiaries wanted new houses constructed for them. Secondly, there was an
overwhelming preference to build one safe room (of about 200 square feet) rather than repair and
strengthen damaged houses. Different approaches were tested, and actions taken, which
ultimately proved to be a valuable learning experience, including: decentralization of R&S
responsibility to the District Collector assisted by a large contingent of engineers and consultants,
setting up procedures for advancing cash and materials in installments, mounting information
dissemination campaigns to propagate technology, training of artisans, preparation of estimates
and agreeing with each family their reconstruction choices, deploying of a large contingent of
junior engineers (on contract), and setting up of 16 materials stores. Despite all of the above
actions, progress was slow for about two years until social development consultants (SPARC)
and local community organizations (such as Mahila Mandals, Samvad Sahayaks - women's
organizations and village facilitators, respectively) were mobilized into a formal structure to assist
in the motivation of beneficiaries. About 14,000 beneficiaries defaulted after receiving the first and
second installments.
District Collectors were given additional staff, and administrative, financial and management
powers to implement the R&S component.  An important provision was for the District
Collectors to write the 'annual confidential reports' of the engineering staff who belonged to
different implementing departments. This arrangement was vastly different to the traditional role
of the District Collector who only coordinates and monitors development activities of
implementing departments. A total sum of US$74 million was passed through the District
Admrinistration for the component. The District Collectors were: empowered to recruit and
manage engineering staff; provided annual funds requirements to implement the R&S program;
provided consultants to set up financial management structure to handle receipt, management and
administration of the grant funds in stages with certification; encouraged to liaise with NGOs and
social development consultants, and most importantly; instrumental in mobilizing women's
organization (Mahila Mandals) and community-based organizations.
(e) Water Scarcity. Despite numerous positive outcomes of the project as mentioned
above, the issue of water scarcity remains a perennial problem. In addition to the fact that the
villages are located in drought prone areas, water supply is disrupted very often for two main
reasons: (i) frequent failure of electric supply and load shedding which limits water pumping
hours; and (ii) frequent bursting of asbestos cement (AC) pipes used in the water supply network.
Even though AC pipes were usedfor economic reasons, they may not be suitable for use in black
cotton soil which expands and shrinks, depending on moisture content. The stresses caused by
expansion of black cotton soil with change in moisture content are believed to lead to the bursting
of AC pipes. The situation has been remedied with the replacement with ductile iron and PVC
pipes, of critical sections of the pipelines.
(t) Procurement. Contractors' lackluster performance also affected works in some villages,
as well as the regional water supply scheme. No large contractors from Mumbai were interested
in these works, which were finally done largely by contractors from the neighboring state. The
largest contract, for a regional water supply scheme to supply water to 36 villages, was delayed



- 9 -
for nearly three years, and resulted in considerable delays in house allocations, and additional
expenditure to provide temporary water supplies. This contract was finally completed, but
involved remedial works costing an additional US$1.0 million, which was financed by the GOM.
(g) Staff Related Problems. Disruptions and delays in the R&S component resulted from
three occasions of work stoppages by the 700 junior engineers who were on six monthly
contracts, as part of their campaign to get permanent positions within the GOM system. There
was a high turnover of key District level staff (Collectors and Additional Collectors) during the
first two years. Subsequently, agreement was reached between the Bank and the GOM regarding
these disruptive transfers.
(h) Relocation? of Villages. Although the GOM considers the relocation villages the most
visible symbol of the project's success, there were no strong technical reasons to support the
decision to relocate except for: cultural, emotional and pragmatic reasons; the high cost of debris
removal, and the strength of the existing foundations. An overwhelming preference for reinforced
concrete framed houses of the type built by donors, led to delays and rejection by beneficiaries of
load-bearing masonry houses proposed under the project, and obstruction of work of the PMU
and NGOs. Resolution of these problems necessitated changes to house designs in some villages.
Beneficiaries went back on earlier community-ratified agreements and demanded construction of
houses on or near individual farms, bifurcation of villages on communal grounds, and modification
of oiriginal layouts, requiring new agreements before work could proceed.
(i) Use of Stone as Building Material. Beneficiaries in the R&S program were very
reluctant to use widely available stone for house construction because they perceived stone as a
major cause of the many deaths. After much persuasion and information dissemination, dressed
stone was used in foundations and up to window sill levels. Cement concrete blocks made out of
crushed stone were used extensively for house construction in relocation villages.
6) Seismic Monitoring and Research. Procurement performance by agencies under the
Department of Science and Technology (DST) was characterized by delays in bid evaluation and
award decisions. Lack of clarity in specifications and poor evaluation of bids resulted in rejection
of bids for telemetry clusters on two occasions, the procurement of which was finally abandoned.
The India Meteorological Department was unable to evaluate bids for accelerographs received
over one year earlier; consequently, no contract was awarded. Contrary to an earlier
'understanding', the DST restricted access to and sharing with other, national and international
researchers seismological data generated at the National Seismological Data Center, thus
frustrating advancement of scientific knowledge on seismicity in the Indian Peninsular Shield.
Requests and reminders for confirmation of agreement and action by the DST on this matter went
unanswered. Notably, this requirement was not covered by a legal covenant, and application of
remedies did not arise.
D. Project Sustainability
25.  The major portion (about 70 percent or US$220 million) of project investments in housing
are individually owned. Families have already commenced improvements and additions using their
own savings. This trend is likely to continue, and is likely to be sustained through extensions



- 10 -
utilizing their savings, maintenance, and the construction of safe buildings. As most of the damage
was to individual housing, this is a major achievement.
26.  The sustainability of on-site infrastructure created in the 52 new villages depends on local
governments (Gram Panichqyats and Zilla Parishads) and the Water Users Committees. Houses
in the new villages have been registered with the Gram Panclhayats, and Water Users Committees
have been formed, but it is too early to say whether the Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats
will be sufficiently strengthened and resources enhanced, to provide the organization and funding
for effective operation and maintenance. The GOM Department responsible for these local
governments has formulated an action plan to strengthen thern.
27.  The GOM  has already taken action to assure sustainability of long-term  disaster
management activities. The current Project Management Unit will be converted to a permanent
Disaster Management Unit (DMU) in the Department of Rehabilitation of GOM. The
Maharashtra Remote Sensing Applications Center (MRSAC) has recruited seven Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) experts to manage and maintain the disaster management information
system. One GIS expert from MRSAC will work full time at the DMU. GOM plans to appoint
network managers to operate and maintain V-SAT and e-maiil networks. The Center for Disaster
Management at YASHADA will become the primary training center for disaster management.
The GOM has already budgeted funds for these operating costs for the fiscal year FY00.
Sustainability of disaster management will be further assured by a UK Government's DFID
project to continue completion of the DMIS and to train communities in disaster response
activities.
28. The Local Governments (Zilla Parishads and Gram Panichayats) in the heavily affected
districts (Latur and Osmanabad districts) have had almost no income over the past three years,
except for government transfers in the wake of the earthquake. In the past year, the GOM had
made special grants to the local governments for funding maintenance. Infrastructure installed in
the 52 new villages is of a higher standard than what is available normally, and will require
enhanced resources to provide adequate maintenance. The new houses have been registered with
the local governments, and levying land and property taxes needs to be commenced. There is no
longer a reason not to do so because the economy has revived to the pre-earthquake level, and
incomes have been restored. The water supply schemes are modeled on the Maharashtra State
Water Supply and Sanitation Project implemented with Bank assistance, under which consumers
are required to meet the costs of operation and maintenance through the newly formed water
users committees. Regrettably, the restoration effort has also encouraged an undesirable degree
of dependency, and people are finding excuses not to pay for services. Participation by
beneficiaries did not resolve this issue.  All these factors indicate that the prospects of
sustainability of the new physical assets within the villages is uncertain, unless there is a concerted
effort by the local governments, and some financial assistance from the GOM for a period of time.
Off-site infrastructure will be maintained by the GOM under its normal maintenance budgets.
E. IDA Performanice
29.  IDA staff worked closely with the GOM  throughout the project, and contributed to
developing strategies for i mplemen.tation of the Repair and Strengthening (R&S) component, and



- I1 -
finding solutions to the numerous problems that arose during implementation. IDA fielded teams
witlh diverse expertise for project supervision, including a sociologist, community participation
experts, community housing experts, financial analysts, seismic engineer, earthquake
reconstruction specialist, disaster management specialist, small-scale industry specialist, civil
engineer, procurement specialist, and disbursement specialist. Close supervision was provided
throughout the project period, especially during the period when the task leader was located in the
Delhi office. IDA performance was facilitated by the assistance provided by the Department for
International Development of the lBritish Government which provided additional funds (outside
the formal co-financing) to provide and finance consultants for project implementation to both the
GOM and the Bank.
F. Borrower Performance
30.  GOM has demonstrated full commitment to this project. Strong support extended by the
previous and the current Governments as well as by all the political parties and their non-
interference, were crucial factors in the success of the project. The delegation of all Cabinet
powers with respect to project execution to the Project Director of the Project Management Unit
enabled effective project management and expedited the project implementation. The powers
delegated to the Central Implementation Group (CIG) with respect to policy matters also
accelerated the decision making process, removed any constraints, and enabled greater
collaboration between project staff, other implementing departments, and external agencies. The
Borrower was supported by DFID for implementation support and for some elements of the
disaster management plans, by ADB for project management, and by the UNDP for the
preparation of district disaster management plans and specialist consultants.
31.  The GOM  performance was always proactive as it:  supported effective project
management; provided adequate funding at all times; invited participation by all stakeholders;
supported the use of consultants for project management and implementation; resisted legal and
public demands for the change of project scope; and completed the entire rehabilitation program
with only minor changes. The performance by the GOI's Department of Science and Technology
and agencies it coordinated, was reasonably satisfactory, except for procurement problems, and
restrictions on sharing data from the National Seismological Data Center. The Credit was fully
disbursed in March 1999. The GOM has provided funds in the current fiscal year for completion
of remaining works, and for recurrent expenditures for operation and maintenance of the facilities
established under the project.
32.  The project has been nominated for the UN-Sasakawa Award for Disaster Prevention by the
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUJDCO) of India, and has been chosen by
UNCHS (HABITAT) as one among the best 100 projects in human settlement. It is one of the
largest Bank-assisted rehabilitation projects covering nearly one million people, that has been
successfully completed in four and a half years.
G., ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.  Government of Maharashtra. The outcomes of the project include: social and economic
rehabilitation in addition to asset restoration; formulation of simple, effective and easy to use



- 12 -
earthquake resistant features for building construction; establishment of a successful experience of
utilization of community participation as a tool for project implementation and to build ownership;
partnership between Government, NGOs and the beneficiaries for project implementation;
introduction of fully delegated project management, use of monitoring tools, and the extensive use
of the private sector (consultants and contractors) for project implementation; the empowerment
of women through special initiatives, and through their role to facilitate project implementation;
creation of a workforce of trained artisans; formulation of procedures for NGOs to operate of
major social facilities (hospitals, homes for the aged and handicapped, and orphanages);
implementation of a disaster management system for the state; and creation of a permanent unit in
the government to continue disaster management activities in the future.
34. Government of Indlia The Government of India's capacity for strengthening seismic
monitoring and research has been enhanced. The 36 seismic monitoring stations have been
upgraded, portable seismometers have been procured, seismic monitoring facilities have been
modernized, and India Meteorology Department (IMD) now has enhanced capacity to record a
wider range of seismic activity down to magnitude 3.0 on the Richter scale. Ten new digital
observatories have been set up in the Peninsular Shield region, and they have started functioning.
Real time seismic data is being received at the National Seismological Data Center in New Delhi
set up under the project.
35.  Some of the significant outcomes of the GOM component are elaborated below:
(a) Communiity Participationi. Strong involvement and participation of the local
communities' throughout the project cycle significantly contributed to the success of the project.
Involvement of NGOs, communities and the Village Level Committees contributed to effective
implementation, despite some abuses
(b) Earthquake Resistaant Con1struction?. The formulation of simple and effective earthquake
resistant features for new construction as well as for improving seismic resistance of existing
houses, and their wide dissemination and use, will benefit a much larger population than originally
targeted, as these techniques would be used in future house construction. Training of about 7,000
local artisans in earthquake-resistant techniques was a major input to introducing safe
construction practices.
(c) Empowerment of Womeni. Community-based women's organizations (Mahila Mandals)
were formed and inducted to the administrative structure to facilitate project implementation.
Women have taken the lead role as field mobilization staff under NGOs (Nari Prabhodhan Manch
and BAIF), for creating social, economic, and legal awareness among women as part of the post
relocation activities. The program to create women's self-help savings groups (about 500) in the
relocated villages has proved effective as a means to foster savings and to credit facilities. Using
these credit facilities, some women have started small-scale businesses. For the first time, women
were given title to property jointly with their spouses, and widows were recognized for housing
entitlement. Fifty-two community centers and two district resource centers were constructed for
use by women.



- 13 -
(d) Creating Awareness of Civic Responisibilities. Subsequent to the government's relief
operations in the aftermath of the earthquake, beneficiaries have become too dependent on
government grants, and expected all services to be provided free of charge even after
rehabilitation. However, with different strategies such as poster campaigns, street plays, group
meetings, and house visits by the teams consisting of NGO and government representatives,
beneficiaries are being informed and educated on their civic responsibilities to pay taxes and user
charges for services. The project has also been effective in creating awareness of the benefits of
improved sanitation (through use of toilets provided), the need to maintain public buildings and
facilities, and importance of social forestry.
(e) Strengtheninig the Network of NGOs. A positive outcome of the project is that the
network of NGOs has been strengthened even in other areas of work beyond the project
components. Many NGOs have now developed deeper involvement with the village communities
in the region and are diversifying their activities to areas such as AIDS-related social work and
income-generation programs. NGOs also gained experience as facilitators, contractors, and in
management.
(/) Statewide Disaster Management Plan. Main elements of the disaster management plan
are the state and district disaster management plans, a mitigation strategy and an implementation
strategy. The mitigation strategy includes: (i) risk assessment and vulnerability analysis, (ii)
applied research and transfer, (iii) public awareness and training, (iv) institutional mechanisms, (v)
disaster management legislation and relief and rehabilitation policy, (vi) incentives and resources
for mitigation, and (vii) land use planing and regulations. The implementation strategy includes:
the establishment of an emergency operations center at the state headquarters and in the districts,
a communications network for wireless (VHF) and satellite (V-SAT) networks, a GIS-based
disaster management information system, community disaster preparedness programs, and training
and support to regularly update the plans.
(g) Team Work. This project is a clear manifestation of teamwork at its best. IDA staff,
GOM officials, PMU staff, NGOs, consultants, and donors, district and village officials worked as
a well-coordinated team, and this was a major factor in the success of the project.
(h,) Extensive Documentation.  The Project Management Unit (PMU) has produced
extensive documentation on the project, covering areas on community participation, NGOs, media
analysis, resource and relief, beneficiary survey, earthquake rehabilitation policy, consultancy,
implementation, and financial management. In addition, it has also created a comprehensive socio
economic database of the 28,000 families in the 52 relocation villages including their pre-
earthquake and post-earthquake status, and 5 % of the 197,000 beneficiaries in R&S program.
The PMU maintained an exceptional record keeping system that documented every aspect and
activity undertaken from the time of the earthquake. This valuable documentation on CD-ROMs
is available freely to researchers and other agencies planning rehabilitation programs.
H. Future Operations
36.  At the district level, two major activities are required for future operations: the local
governments need to organize a system (through issuance of building permits and capacity to



- 14 -
oversee enforcements) to ensure that all new buildings incorporate earthquake resistant features;
and the local governments should enhance resources and develop the capacity to operate and
maintain the physical infrastructure installed in the 52 new villages.
37. At state government level, the GOM plans to develop the capacity of the Disaster
Management Unit to utilize the disaster management planning facilities provided under the project
to manage disasters, reduce losses, and undertake mitigation activities. In addition to continuing
the Disaster Management Unit, the GOM will continue the contractual arrangements with
MRSAC and MELTRON to provide support to operate and maintain the disaster management
system. YASHADA is being strengthened as the primary training institution for disaster
management. A budget of Rs. 100 million has been provided for FY00. In addition, the GOM
will continue to provide grants to NGOs who have been contracted to operate social facilities
such as orphanages, homes for the aged and handicapped, and hostels for women.
I. Key Lessons Learned and Photographs of Project
38.  The key lessons learned from this project experience are given below:
(a) Long-term Disaster Mitigation and Loss Redluction. Bank assistance for emergency
recovery and restoration projects should include long-term hazard mitigation planning and loss
reduction measures as the primary development objective. A three-year project period is not
adequate to prepare and implement disaster management plans.
(b) Rehabilitation with Cost Sitaring. While circumstances may dictate the need for
some grant assistance for rehabilitation in the aftermath of natural disasters, the amount of grant
should be limited so that beneficiaries contribute their own savings and time for rehabilitation,
thereby reducing dependence on the state. Even though people have no insurance and have
relatively low incomes, full grant-based rehabilitation on a large scale is neither affordable nor
sustainable.
(c) Danmage Assessment. Damage assessment should: (i) include modification of IAEE
category criteria to avoid overlapping, to suit local conditions and building practices, (ii) be based
on specific and clear technical details to avoid different interpretations, (iii) include post-
earthquake safety evaluation and training to determine if buildings are habitable, (iv) include
development of uniform damage assessment criteria and forms, and (v) have a correlation
between damage category, government assistance to beneficiaries, and earthquake intensity. As
part of emergency response planning, criteria appropriate for different types of disasters should be
developed for different disasters, and also well publicized before commencement of damage
assessment. The criteria should be freely available, and periodic training should be given to
selected staff who could be used as needed.
(d) Public/Private Partnerships and Ownership. Large and complex programs can be
successfully implemented as public-private partnerships that include: open and transparent policies
and procedures, opportunity for constructive participation and involvement of communities,
NGOs and community-based women's organizations, and efficient and autonomous project
management, supported by expert consultants. Ownership of solutions by potential beneficiaries



- 15 -
are essential to ensure sustainability. The roles and responsibilities of different stakeholders
should be defined beforehand to avoid abuse of privileges. Community participation from the
planning stage can assure successful and sustainable implementation. Emphasis should be given
to post-project infrastructure and community-based environmental management, and obligations
to pay user charges and taxes.
(e) Grievance Redressal. Grievance redressal should be transparent and user-friendly, and
should be done by parties not connected with project management.
W  Comprehensive Rehabilitation. Social and economic rehabilitation, as well as long-
term disaster management and planning should be part of a rehabilitation and recovery strategy.
(g) Maintenance Management and Financing by Local Governments. Capacity of local
governments should be strengthened to ensure sustainability, through a long-term strategy for
maintenance and maintenance funding.
(h) Information and Transparency. Comprehensive and continuous information
dissemination should form part of any developmental activity in order to elicit partnership with the
intended beneficiaries. Project management and implementation should be fair and transparent in
order to win the confidence of beneficiaries.
(i) Women in Developntent. Women's organizations are able to play an important and
highly influential role in projects that involve intensive social interaction, and should be inducted
into formal administrative structures for developmental programs.
(i) Project Management Efficient project management is possible in the public sector
provided there is interest and willingness to delegate full administrative and financial powers to
the implementing entity.



- 16 -
A typical scene of earthquake damage
Traditional village housing                      Repair and strengthening by
beneficiaries



- 17 -
Repair and strengthening with the assistance of NGO's
Typical relocation village



- 18 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2594-IN)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial        Partial          Neibe              Not alicable
Macro Policies                          0                 O                  O                   E
Sector Policies                         0                 0m                 0                   0
Financial Objectives                    0                 0                  0                   0
Institutional Development               E3                0                  0                   0
Physical Objectives                     0                 0                  0     .l
Poverty Reduction                       O                 0El                0                   0
Gender Issues                           03                0                  0                   0
Other Social Objectives                 0                 0                  0                   0
Environmental Objectives                0                 0                 El                   0
Public Sector Management                0E 0                                 0                   0
Private Sector Development              E                 0l                 0                   E
Community Participation                0m                 E                  E                   E
B.Proiect Sustainability vkehl                                   Unlikely                    Uncertai
(VI)                        (VI)                         (1)
0E 0                                                     0
Hiehlv
C. Bank Performance                       satisfact                 Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification                         E                          0                             E
Preparation Assistance                 El                         0                             0
Appraisal                             0EE 0                                                     0
Supervision                           [EE 0                                                     0
Hiehiy
D. Borrower Performance                           satisfactorv      Satisfactorv      Deficient
D.   orowrerfrmnc() 1)            (1)
Preparation                                       0                0                0
hnplementation                                   0m                0                0
Covenant Compliance                              0E                0                0
Operation (if applicable)                         El              0z                0
Highly                                                  Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome                  satisfactory    Satisfactory      Unsatisfactorv      unsatisfactorv
(0               (0E (El 
El                0                 0                   0



- 19 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose             Year of      Status
approval               l
Preceding operations                             l
1. India - Uttar    Repair and reconstruction of  1987     Closed on
Pradesh Urban       roads, bridges and public              March 31, 1996
Development Project  buildings, following the               ICR No 16579
(Loan 2797-         Uttarkashi earthquake of 1991 An
IN/Credit 1780-IN)   amount of SDR1O million was
allocated following an amendment
to the legal agreements.
2. India: Andhra    Repair and reconstruction of  1990      Closed on
Pradesh Emergency   roads, bridges, electricity, and       March 31, 1994
Cyclone Recovery    irrigation facilities, after the 1990  ICR No. 14662
Project (Ln. 3260-    cyclone and storm surge damage.
IN/Cr 2179-IN)
Following
Operations         I                                                      I
Andhra Pradesh      Preparation of a hazard mitigation  1997  Under
Hazard Mitigation    framework for the state, and          Implementation
and Emergency       reconstruction of damaged
Cyclone Recovery    infrastructure
Project



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date ActuaU
Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation (Executive  October 5, 1993      October 5, 1993
Project Summary)
Appraisal                             November 8, 1993      January 4-29, 1994
Negotiations                          December 20, 1993    March 2, 1994
Board Presentation                    January 05, 1994      March 31, 1994
Signing                                                     April 6, 1994
Effectiveness                         March 5, 1994         June 27, 1994
Midterm review                        November 1995         November 27-30,
1995
Project Completion                    December 31, 1996    December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1997         April 30, 1999
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97       FY98      FY99
Appraisal Estimate        30        80         160       240       246        0
Revised estimate following          25.6       73.7      153.9      216.6
surrender of credit
Actual (Year-Wise)        0         26.8       51.3      80.9       38.3      23.4
Cumulative                0         26.8       78.1      159.1      197.4     220.8
Actual as % of Estimate   0         33.5       48.6      66.3       80.3      0
Amount canceled on December 16, 1996 - USD 30,235,170.00
Date of Final Disbursement: March 3, 1999



-21 -
Table 5A: Performance Indicators
Key Indicators in MOP/TA                      MOP/TA          Revised            Actual
1. Relocation Villages.
_1 Number of Villages                  _              52            52                52
_2 Number of Houses                   _            23,394        27,919       27,551(368)
2. Model Housesl
2. 1] Number of houses/buildings                     528           475               475
3. Repair and Strengthening Houses                                                       I
3.1 Repair and Strengthening Houses              211,341        197,755    192,256 (4,599)
3.2 Pilot Strengthening Public Houses              5,000          3,876            3,876
3.3 Pilot Strengthening Public Buildings                            46                46
4. Infrastructure
4.1 Access Roads (kms)                                17           371               371
4.2 Culverts and Minor Bridges (No.)                 140           131               131
4.3 Missing Culverts (No.)                            10           156               156
4.4 Water Supply (Number of Villages)
(i) Repairs to PWSS                               53            53                53
(iii) Interim Water Supply                         52            51                51
4.5 Irrigation
(i) Repairs to Lower Terna Dam  (No. of             5             1           Deleted
items)
(ii) Repairs to Talni Aqueduct                                     1                1
(iii) Embankments of Percolation Tanks             137           125               125
(iv) Strengthening of KT Wiers                     218           218               218
(v) Offices and Other Buildings (Rooms)           *35           293               293
(vi) Embankments > 10 meters height                 56            92                92
4.6 School Building (Rooms)                         *257          3,772            3,772
4.7 Public Buildings (No.)                            26           168               168
4.8 Zilla Parishad Buildings (Rooms)                 *35          1642              1642
4.9 Strengthening of Major Bridges                    33            18                18
5. Economic Rehabilitation
(i) Replacement of Fann Inplements              37,002        37,002            37,002
(ii) Replacement of Milch Cattle                  3,461         3,346             3,346
(iii) Replacement of Sheep and Goats              9,843         9,611             9,611
(iv) Replacement of Bullocks                        829           829               829
(v) Reconstruction of Dug Wells                     473           337               337
(vi) Rehabilitation of artisan businesses          1,164           979              979
6. Social Rehabilitation
6.1 Anganwadis                                       744          1,140             1140
6.2 Community Centers for Women                       52            52                52
6.3 District Resource Centers                          2             2                 2
6.4 Homes for Handicapped                              1              1                1
6.5   Homes for the Aged                               1             1                 1
6.6 District Trauma Centers                                          2                 2
6.7 Women's Self Help Savings Groups                 200           500               476
6.8 Educational Complex at Vagholi                     1              1                1 ||
7. Restoration of Monuments                           16             9              6(3)
Note: (i) Figures in parenthesis in the last column indicates works that are still ongoing, and are expected to be
completed by June 1999. (ii) * Indicates number of buildings, other numbers in row indicate rooms



- 22 -
5 B. Key Indicators of Project Implementation and Management
Performance Indicator           Action to Provide External Supp ort/Consultant       Cost (Rs)
1. Program Monitoring and          Tata Consulting Services., India                       17,300,000
Management                          DHV Consultants, The Netherlands                      19,000,000
2. Seismic Engineering Advice       Professor Drazen Anicic, Croatia                         400,000
Dr. Svetlana Nikolic-Brzev, Canada                     4,100,000
Indian Institute of Technology, Powai, Mumbai. India  13,300,000
3. Engineering, Architecture and    Kirloskar Consultants Ltd.. India                     63,200,000
Project Design and Supervision      Tata Consulting Engineers, India                      10,500,000
Consulting Engineering Services, India                23,900,000
STUP Consultants Ltd., India                           8,500,000
MHADA, India                                          36,000,000
Mahendra Acres Consulting Engineers, India            18,000,000
4. Community Participation and Social  Tata Institute of Social Services, India            7,000,000
Development                         Society for Promotion of Areas Resource Centers
(SPARC), India                                         7,000,000
5. Pilot Repair Demonstration       Central Building Research Institute, India             1,400,000
6. Design of Water Supply Systems   Task Consultants, India                                1,600,000
Network Associates, India                              1,200,000
7. Design and Strengthening of      STUP Consultants Ltd., India                           1,400,000
Bridges                             Tandon Consultants, India                              1,400,000
Consulting Engineering Services, India                 3,100,000
8. Survey and Assessment of Damages   Gherzi Eastern Ltd., India                           2,700,000
Structwell Design and Consultants Ltd. India           1,300,000
9. ICB Procurement of Building      RITES, India                                          14,400,000
Materials                          _________________  _
10. Materials Management and        Tata Consulting Services, India                       18,000,000
Distribution __.
11. Quality Assurance and Technical    Lee Associates Private Ltd., India                 37,400,000
Audit                            _                                                    _    _    _
12. Communications and Publicity   Ramesh G. Pense, India                                  3,400,000
13. Rehabilitation Action Plan      J. Bapat, India                                          400,000
14. Design and Supervision of College-  Ranade Consultants Pvte. Ltd., India               5,700,000
cum-Orphanage.
15. Dam Safety                      Deuskar Committee, India                                 200,000
S. T. Deokule, India                                     100,000
16. Disaster Management Plan        YASHADA, India                                         5,900,000
CSSD, India                                            1,500,000
MELTRON, India                                         1,500,000
17. Probabilistic Earthquake Hazard  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia            4,300,000
Map for Maharashtra                 Universily, NY
18. Documentation of Project        EPW Research Foundation, India                         2,500,000
Experience                      _____
19. NGO Coordination                BIAF Development Research Foundation, and Nanr
Prabodan Manch. India                                  9,400,000
20. Database of Beneficiaries       Center for Studies in Social Development, India        2,100,000
21. Disaster Management Infonnation   Maharashtra Remote Sensing Applications Center      35,900,000
System                                                                               __
22. Financial Audit of R&S          Mehra, Venkatesh and Associates, India                 4,000,000
Component Cash Disbursements                                                                _



-23 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicator                                         Action taken
Facilitation of quality    1. Training of PMU Engineers by seismic engineering consultants
of implementation,     2. Training of artisans in earthquake resistant construction by GOM and consultants
physical rehabilitation   3. Quality assurance and technical audit through consultants
and construction       4. Materials procurement through consultant
5. Materials stores management through consultants
Promotion of local     1. Community participation througlh consultants
ownership and          2. Funds to support NGO activities in relocation villages
participation,         3. Documentation of project innovative processes through consultants
infonration            4. Training village contact/facilitation persons through consultants
dissemination,         5. Appointment of Sanwvad Sahayaks (community facilitators) through Mahila Mandals
education and              (women's organizations)
communications
strateg
Development of         1. International workshop on disaster management
disaster mitigation and   2. Expert seismic advice through national and international consultants
response capacity in the  3. National consultants for disaster management
state                  4. District disaster management committees and national workshops
5. Communication network survey for disaster management by consultants
6. Disaster management information system tlhrough MRSAC
7. Setting up of central and district emergency response centersl
_           ~~~8. Implementation of disaster management plan_
Other Miscellaneous    1. Seminar on 'Management of Emergencies and Disasters' by British Council for 3
Activities to Facilitate   persons
Quality of Project     2. Rehabilitation action plan for those wvhose lands were acquired for project
3. Village Development Fund to provide credit to for wYomen through self help grOUpS
4. Educational complex and orphanage for 1,500 children
5. Support to District and Tehsil (sub-districts) staff in financial management and
accounting
Project evaluation and   I. Comprehensive database of all beneficiaries in the relocation villages, and about 10
lessons learned            percent of beneficiaries under the repair and strengthening component
2. Project completion reports by Chief Engineer and Executive Engineers for both the
relocation and the repair and strengthening components
3. Documentation of innovative measures adopted in the project comprising seven
reports prepared by consultants
Future Operations      1. Completion of remaining (Supreme Court-ordered) houses in category B villages
2. Creation of the pennanent Disaster Management Unit
3. Operation of the emergency response centers
4. Management and updating of disaster management information system
5. Continuation of NGO support to communities to complete fence building, tree
planting, and maintaining the environment
6. Strengthening local governments (Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats) to levy
property taxes, ensure earthquake resistant features in house construction through
issue of building pennits, and maintaining of infrastructure in the new villages
7,  Annual budget allocations by GOM to meet recurrent expenditures for: DMU staff
and contractor salaries, operation of emergency response centers, license fees for VHF
and V-SAT wavebands, maintenance of DMIS, and for grants to NGOs operating
_______________________  social facilities



- 24 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                         Purpose as Defined                        Status               Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined                                                                    l
Strategy for Reconstruction,  To define the approach, procedures, terms and  Completed            Formed the basis of the
Repairs and Strengthening     conditions of the shelter components relating to the                rehabilitation program
relocation of villages and the repair and
strengthening programs
Guidelines for Repair,        Detailed description of damages with step by step  Completed        Primary technical document used
Strengthening and             procedures for repair and strengthening of houses                   by engineers, artisans and
Reconstruction Program, and   damaged in the 1993 earthquake                                      beneficiaries
Guidelines for Pilot
Strengthening
Manual for Earthquake         Detailed description for incorporation of earthquake   Completed    A formal document that will form
Resistant Construction and    resistant features in non-engineered masonry                        the future development control
Seismic Strengthening of      construction (includes retroftting of existing                      efforts for incorporation of
Private Houses in Rural Areas    buildings as well as new construction). This same                earthquake resistant construction
of Maharashtra                document will also be used by the Local                             for non-engineered construction
govenmments as the guidelines for development
control
Disaster Management Action    The detailed report on the disaster management plan   Disaster      Long-term impact for disaster
Plan for Maharashtra State    for the state                                  management plan      mitigation and loss reduction
completed.
Extension of DMIS
to all districts and
training of
communities to be
continued with
DFID assistance
DMIS Guidelines for Land      Describes guidelines for preparation of thematic  Completed          Useful in hazard management
Use/Land Cover Mapping and    mapping such as land use, and land cover mapping
Format for Report Writing     for hazard mitigation
Documentation of Innovative   Seven documents describing the innovative      Completed.            Lessons for future project
Experiences in the            processes used in project management: community                     implementation, dealing with
Rehabilitation Program        participation, project management; earlhquake                        disasters, and construction to
resistant construction, publicity and infornation                   ensure loss reduction
dissemination, etc.
Developing People Though      A report describing the process of community   Completed             Promotion of community
House Building in the         participation in the repair, reconistruction and                    participation in development
Rehabilitation Program        strengthening programs
Information Dissemination     Documents prepared to itnform and educate the   Completed            Major impact in informing and
documents:                    beneficiaries to undertake repair and strengthening                  educating beneficiaries in the
of houses                                                           programl
Build your home with                                                                                                             I
earthquake protection
Another step forward
Stories to tell
Marathwada Earthquake - A
Year Later
Earthquake Hazard Map for     To be used as a framework for hazard mitigation  Completed           To be used in the future
Maharashtra                   planning                                                                                            l
Ongoing Seismicity in the     Research report on seismicity in the regions with  Completed         Improved scientific knowledge on
vicinity of Koyna and Warna   large reservoirs                                                     seismic activity in the region
Reservoirs
The Killari Earthquake in      Research report on seismicity in Central India  Completed           Improved scientific knowledge on
Centrba India: A New Mesozoic                                                                      seismic activity in the region
Basalt Flows



- 25 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  Actual/Latest
Estimate(US$M)
Item                        Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs            Costs   Costs
1. Housing                 144.3    15.6   159.9  220.33              220.33
2. Infrastructure           64.9     6.8     71.7   76.71             76.71
3. Social Rehabilitation    10.4     0.7     11.1    11.09             11.09
4. Economic Rehabilitation  4.8      0.3     5.1     3.68              3.68
5. Community Rehabilitation    7.7   0.9     8.6     8.23              8.23
6. Technical Assistance,    12.2     5.6     17.8   26.09    2.12    28.21
Training and Equipment   l
Sub-Total - Program Base Cost  244.3    29.9   274.2   346.14    2.12    348.26
7. Total Physical            6       0.1     6.1
Contingencies            l
8. Total Design, Supervision    13.6  1.2    14.8
and MG
9. Total Price Contingencies    31.2  1.5    32.7
Sub-Total - Total of           50.8      2.8    53.6
Contingencies                _
TOTAL PROGRAMME COST   295.1    32.7   327.8   346.14    2.12   348.26*
Average Dollar/Rupee rate: $1=Rs.36.18
*Indicates actual project cost at December 31, 1998. Estimated project cost to completion by
June 1999 is US$363.62 Million.



- 26 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal   ActuaULatest
Estimate    Estimate
(US $M)    (US$M)
Source            Total           Total
IDA              246.0          221.00
GOM               40.0           86.61
GOI                 1.0
DONOR             41.0           40.65
TOTAL           328.0          348.26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Analysis was not done for this Emergency Project.



- 27 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section   Covenant Present Original    Revised Description of                                Comments
ment              type      status   fulfillment  fulfill-  covenant
date       ment
date
DCA    202(b)        01       C                          India to open and maintain a Special Account  Complied with.
at RBI.
DCA    3.04           13       C    06/30/1994            India to establish an Advisory Group with  Complied with.
international participation for the purpose of
implementation of earthquake monitoring and
research.
DCA    4.01(b)        01       C    12/31/1994            India to provide Special Account Audit Report Complied with.
to IDA no later than 9 months after the end of
the fiscal year.
DCA    601(a)         05       C    07/05/1994            GOM have appointed consultants for design   Complied with
and management of all works under Part A of by date of
the project.                               effectiveness.
DCA    6. 01(b)       10       C    07/05/1994            GOM to provide to IDA the program          Complied with
implementation plan.                       by date of
effectiveness.
PA      Schtedule    07        C                          GOM to implement the Rehabilitation Action  Complied with.
2                                                Plan dated March 12, 1994, agreed upon
between the IDA and GOM.
PA      3.01(a)       01       C                          GOM to maintain records and accounts of    Complied with.
project expenditure.
PA      3.01(b)       01       C    12/31/1994            GOM to provide project accounts audit to IDA  Complied with.
no later than 9 months after the end of the
financial year.
PA      3.02          13       C    05/01/1994            GOM to establish an independent dam safety  Complied with.
panel to review proposals for strengthening
larger dams in the earthquake affected areas.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds          11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                  allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or its executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                               action
6. =  Environmental covenants                        13. = Other
7.=  Involuntary resettlement



- 28 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All applicable Operational Directives or Operational procedures have been complied with.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks           US$
Preparation to Appraisal   68.1          198,000
Appraisal-Board            10.4           26,400
Negotiations through       10.2           33,200
Board Approval
Supervision               205.2          511,400
Completion                  9.0           30,600
TOTAL                    303.9          799,600



-29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized                Implemen    Develop-
Stage of         Month/       of       Days in    Staff Skills               -tation       ment        Types of
Project Cycle       Year    Persons       Field    Represented                  Status     Objectives    Problems
Through Appraisal      10/93     3          2         EC, ME, RE                       _           _
11/93     7         24         ME, RE, AC, SP, HS, RE, PC
Appraisal through      01/94     8          25        ME, RE, AC, SP, HS, ES, PC       -           _
Board Approval                                           _
Supervision
04/94     10         17        ME, SB, CP, UP, HS, SE, RS       I                          _
09/94     7          10        ME, SB, UP, HS, GE, EG          HS                          P
10/94     2          12        ME, UP                          HS
02/95     2          10        ME, UP                           S                          P
05/95     4          10        ME, UP, DM, SE                   S                          P
09/95     4          6         ME, SO, HE, CD                   S           I              P
10/95     4         6          ME, SO, UP, DM                   S                          P
Mid-Ternm Review       11/95     4          4         CD, SO, ME, UP                   S           I              P
03/96     2          5         ME, PO
06/96     2          4         ME, PO                           U                          2
07/96     2          4         ME, PO                           S                          2
10/96     2         6          ME, PO                           S                          2
01/97     4          6         ME, UP, SO, PO                   S                _
08/97     4          11        RC,PC,SO,PO                     HS
11/97     3          5         RC, PC, PO                      HS _
03/98     3          6         RC, PC, PO                      HS             .
06/98     4          19        RC, PC, IN                      HS
Completion             0 1/98    4          I I       RC, IN, AN, FA                  HS           HS            -
Specialization:  Anthropology (AN), Community Development Specialist (CD), Community Planner (CP), Disaster Management Specialist (DM),
Financial Analyst (FA), Geologist (GE), Housing Specialist (HS), Institutional (IN), Municipal Engineer (ME), Procurement (PC),
Project Coordinator (PO), Reconstruction (RC), Rehabilitation Specialist (RS), Seismic Engineer (SE), Small Business Specialist
(SB), Sociologist (SO), Urban Planner (UP),
Ratings:       Satisfactory - S, Highly Satisfactory - HS
Minor Problem - 1, Moderate Problem -2
Problems:           Project Management - P



30
Appendix A
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
CREDIT 2594-IN
Project Completion and Implementation Completion Report
Mission
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(January 4-14, 1999)
In continuation of this review and discussions, a World Bank mission comprising Chandra
Godavitarne, Allyson Thirkell, and K. S. Sidhu visited Mumbai and the project affected areas
during January 4 through 14, 1999 to discuss detailed arrangements for the preparation of the
ICR and to make preliminary assessments on project implementation and management. The
mission had discussions with Mr. Narayan Rane, Minister for Revenue, Rehabilitation and
Forests, Mr. P. Subrahmanyiam, Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra (GOM), Mr. Johny
Joseph, Revenue Secretary and the Project Director of the Earthquake Rehabilitation Cell, key
officials of the Project Management Unit, District Administration officials, project consultants,
implementing agencies, NGOs, and beneficiaries. This Aide Memoire covers the Maharashtra
component (about 96 percent of total project cost), and summarizes the preliminary findings and
recommendations of the mission, and agreements reached with the GOM on post-project
operations. . The mission expresses its gratitude for the assistance and cooperation extended to it.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maharashtra
Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project (MEERP) was initiated at a review meeting held in
Washington during December 1-3, 1998, between the Mr. Johny Joseph, Project Director and Mr.
Krishna S. Vatsa, Deputy Secretary, Earthquake Rehabilitation Cell (ERC) and Jelena Pantelic,
Task Leader. Discussions were also held with Dr. R. K. Midha, Head (Earth System Science),
Department of Science and Technology, Government of India in November 1998 regarding
project implementation progress and arrangements to complete the Borrowers Assessment for the
ICk
Overall achievement. Overall project achievements have exceeded the project targets
set at formulation, despite some initial start-up problems. A number of secondary benefits have
also been derived. The largest housing component- the repair and strengthening component -
had a difficult start, and took over one and a half years to take off solely due to its complexity
and the time taken to organize a large community-driven effort involving over 200,000 families.



3 1
The strong commitment, receptivity to innovative approaches, and the extremely proactive stance
of the GOM facilitated maximization of the achievements.
By project completion, the following have been achieved: (i) construction of 27,444 new
houses in 52 villages (8,406 by various donor business houses, and 19,038 by the PMU through
Engineering Consultants, Contractors and NGOs); (ii) construction of 6,732 new houses adjacent
to existing villages on lands provided by beneficiaries, NGOs and the GOM; (iii) reconstruction,
repair and strengthening of 183,819 damaged houses; (iv) completion of rehabilitation of other
infrastructure of roads and bridges, and public buildings; (v) social rehabilitation comprising
reconstruction of schools, angarnvadis (creches), home for the aged, home for handicapped,
hostel for backward communities, rural hospitals, shopping centers, including an NGO-operated
orphanage for over 1,000 children and a modern hospital in Sastur; (vi) economic rehabilitation
through replacement of livestock lost, and other artisan equipment; (vii) training of over 7,000
building artisans; (viii) preparation of guidelines and manuals for non-engineered masonry
construction, and widely disseminated in the affected areas and throughout the state; (ix) active
involvement of other donors (business houses, religious organizations, charitable institutions both
national and international for provision of housing, health facilities; (x) setting up a disaster
management framework for the state; (xi) specific programs for women including a savings and
credit facility (assisted by DFID); and (xii) limited improvements to Government of India's
seismic monitoring and research capacity. However, free access to seismic data to researchers,
which was an objective for this component was not achieved.
The solutions for seismic resistance in buildings developed are simple, widely used by
villagers, and serve as examples of how to make these non-engineered masonry structures safer.
However, soon after commencement of project implementation, this objective was given a
greater emphasis following agreement between the GOM, the United Kingdom Government's
Department for International Development and the Bank to support implementation of the plan
proposals. This resulted in an additional allocation of UK£2.5 million and allocation of about Rs.
150 million (US$ 3.5 million) to put in place the framework for disaster management in the state.
The disaster statewide disaster management plan has been prepared and implemented, including
the preparation of a disaster management information system.
Through choices made by the affected communities, new villages with an urban character
have come up, and appearances of class differences are no longer visible in the new villages. The
acquisition of a soundly built house achieved a basic need. The grant of joint ownership of the
house in the names of both husband and wife, the creation of a village development fund solely for
women and other programs focused on women have empowered and assisted in the emancipation
of women. A beneficiary survey conducted at the end of the project has demonstrated a high
degree of satisfaction among the beneficiaries.
Schedule for Completion of Balance Works. Most remaining physical works relate to
house construction. The late commissioning of contractors due to Supreme Court order requiring
construction of nearly 3,227 houses for families originally classified under in situ rehabilitation,
late acquisition of pockets of land in specific villages, and minor delays arising out of the heavy
rains in the region. The schedule for completion of these works is as follows:



32
(i) 477 houses in relocation villages:                  31 March 1999
(ii) 3,227 houses being constructed under court order:  30 April 1999
(iii) 4,672 houses under the R&S component:            31 March 1999
(iv) 2 monuments:                                      30 April 1999
(v) Commissioning of the V-SAT communications system:  31 March 1999
(vi) Completion of house allocations (relocation villages):  31 March 1999
For the Government of India component for seismic monitoring and research, the
procurement of the 3 telemetered clusters were bid twice and abandoned. The IMD was not able
to evaluate the bids for 50 free-field accelerographs for over nine months, and that procurement
was also abandoned.
Next Steps
The following activities have been agreed with the GOM, and are expected to be
implemented in the next three to four months:
Government of Maharashtra. (i) Bring the project to a formal closure, and undertake no
new works; (ii) Provide budget for recurrent expenditures, and few remaining capital works; (iii)
Resolve issues of sale tax exemption, rates adjustment, and the reduction of Rs.3,000 from NGOs
undertaking construction; (iv) Issue directives to Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats to
assume planning, taxation and maintenance functions, and provide necessary assistance to
strengthen them to perform their statutory roles; (v) Create a library for project documentation;
(vi) Ensure financial support arrangements for NGOs operating facilities e.g., Sastur District
Hospital and orphanage at Vagholi etc.; and (v) Ensure that social amenities (such as District
resource Centers and Home for the Handicapped) are assigned to NGOs or Government
Departments, and are operating satisfactorily.
MAVIM. Continue to monitor operations of the Village Development Fund, and provide
reports directly to DFID in New Delhi.
District Collectors. (i) In conjunction with communities, the village level committees,
complete allocation of shops and houses; and (ii) Advise NGOs working in the Village
Development Program regarding future sources of official Government funding.
Chief Executive Officer and Zilla Parishad. (i) Ensure that property registers for
villages are completed; (ii) Remove of any encroachment; and (iii) Commence collection of water
rates.
Village Level Committees. Complete allocation of houses in consultation with the
communities.
Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board. (i) Complete remedial works; (ii)
Make arrangements for maintenance; (iii) Remove of illegal connections; (iv) Make provision for
overlap with contractors and the Water Board for operation and maintenance through the Zilla



33
Parishads; (v) Advise Zilla Parishads on role and activities of Community-based Water
Communities; and (vi) Discuss,water rates collection with Zilla Parishads.
Maharashtra State Electricity Board. (i) Complete installation of meters; (ii)
Disconnect and discourage illegal connections; and (iii) Implement cost recovery from users.
Communities. (i) Pay user charges, and taxes owed; and (ii) create community
organizations to improve environment and maintenance.
Incorporation of Seismic Resistant Features in Non-engineered Construction. (i)
Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats will institute issue of building approvals in the Districts of
Latur and Osmanabad, and (ii) Disseminate widely guidelines for earthquake resistance
construction in non-engineered construction.
Department of Science and Technology, GOI. (i) Operate the National Seismological
Information Center, and (ii) Continue seismic research to improve scientific knowledge of
earthquake.
PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Project Objectives. All project objectives have been achieved: (i)
Rehabilitation and reconstruction.  By Credit closure on December 31,1998, all project
components including the repair, strengthening and reconstruction of 225,000 houses and
infrastructure, and the soft components have been substantially completed. Some additional
works still under construction include 3,227 houses ordered by the Supreme Court in mid-1998
following resolution of a long-standing dispute over eligibility for a higher category of benefit by
families in six villages, and minor works under the reduced component for restoration of
monuments component. All of the above works are expected to be completed by April 1999.
(ii) Improved earthquake resistance of buildinigs. Simple and effective earthquake resistant
features have been introduced in all construction, and these have been widely accepted by the
beneficiaries. Guidelines and manuals for non-engineered masonry construction have been
prepared. The Government of Maharashtra (GOM) will ensure that local governments (Zilla
Parishads) will enforce this requirement in all future building construction in the earthquake-
prone areas. (iii) Capacity building to respond more effectively to manage future natural
disasters. The GOM has prepared a statewide disaster management plan, and a major portion of
the plan has been implemented. With funding from GOM, the Credit and the UK Government's
Department for International Development (DFID), hazard management plans, disaster
management information system for 8 out of the 31 districts, emergency operations centers, and
installation of an advanced VHF and V-SAT communications network, have been completed or
are under commissioning.
The GOM has budgeted Rs. 490 million (US$11.4 million) to meet expenditures for the
period January 1 through March 31, 1999. The DFID will continue to work with the GOM for a
further period of three years to complete the DMIS, training and vulnerability reduction in
communities with a pre-assigned budget of UK Pounds 2.5 million.



34
Implementation Strategy.   With the active support of the GOM, community
participation, creation of village development committees, empowerment of women's
organizations (the Mahila Mandals), and the induction of NGOs in various roles was adopted as
the strategy for project implementation. These involved empowering communities through the
village development committees, creating an effective grievance redressal mechanism, deploying
considerable resources to assisting beneficiaries to undertake the repair and strengthening (R&S)
program, inducting NGOs as consultants, facilitators, disseminators of information and
contractors, inducting village level facilitators (Samnovar Sahayaks) through Mahila Mandals,
and actively involving communities in site selection for new villages, developing layouts of new
villages, selecting housing types, location of amenities, and reconstructing nearly houses under
the owner-driven program.
Participation by communities, and NGOs has been successful and a worthwhile
experience for all stakeholders. Participation, however, is perceived differently by different
stakeholders. Participation by beneficiaries of the relocation component has been limited to
activist roles to include additional beneficiaries, site layouts and house designs, quality control
and house allocations in the case of the relocation component.  Participation by R&S
beneficiaries as individuals has been most striking through planning house improvements,
mobilizing additional savings, organizing and taking an active role in construction. This 'owner-
driven' repair and strengthening component took off after considerable difficulties of launching
this highly complex operation. However, retrofitting damaged houses, use of stone or concrete
block as envisaged during project formulation did not happen. GOM has had to devote
considerable effort and resources to launch this component (the district administration, NGO
consultants and Mahila Mandals and village-level facilitators Samvad Sahayaks, nearly 800
engineers, 17 materials stores, inforrnation dissemination campaigns, and 7,000 trained artisans).
There has been an overwhelming selection by beneficiaries to construct one safe room in
preference to retrofitting their old houses. A variety of designs have emerged, and on average,
about an additional 30 percent of additional funding has been mobilized by communities to
construct larger housing units than that would be possible with the entitlement provided. Simple
but effective earthquake resistant features introduced under the project have been easily
understood and widely adopted in the project and for construction outside the project. Use of the
widely available local material (stone) was not preferred building material with beneficiaries
(probably due to associating stone with death), and preference for modern building material of
brick.
Infrastructure rehabilitation (roads, water supply, public buildings, and irrigation
structures) have all been restored, except for the restoration f monuments. The restoration of
monuments had to be curtailed due institutional problems in the implementing department.
Field Development.  Field development was effected through various means: (i)
responsibility for implementing the R&S component was assigned to the District Collectors; (ii)
cash disbursements (of over Rs. 2,591 million, US$ 74 million) to R&S beneficiaries was done
through the District Administration; (iii) the PMU operated through consultants, 17 materials
stores that handled over $ 32 million worth of building materials using a fully computerized
systems; (iv) the PMU set up a decentralized engineering department in the field comprising of a



35
Chief Engineer at Solapur with a contingent of two Superintending Engineers, 11 Executive
Engineers, 56 Deputy Engineers, nearly 800 Junior Engineers; (v) created and supported
community organizations comprising village development committees, community-based
organizations to support consolidation activities such as Mahila Mandals; (vi) inducted NGOs to
work with the communities ad house builders, small contractors, facilitators and information
disseminators; (iv) set up the institutional arrangements for implementing a DFID-supported (Rs.
24 million) Village Development Fund to encourage self-help savings groups for women,
including employment generation.
The above institutional arrangements at the Maharashtra State level have ensured the
successful implementation and management of the project. Procurement and loan administration
has been a particular strength of this PMU, where there were no procurement-related delays. All
contract awards have been decided within the original bid validity period, often within two to
three weeks of receipt of bids. Financial management has been exemplary, and disbursements
peaked at US$ 72 million in one year. With applications pending with the Bank, the Credit has
been fuilly disbursed by Credit closure. GOM has been in compliance with all covenants, including
audits that have been complied in the specified time. This operation has been carried out with a
small number of project management staff, but using consultants as much as possible. The total
cost of project management (including the support provided by DFID totaling about UK£2.5
million), amounted to Rs. 735.8 million (US$ 21 million) - about 5.8 percent of total project cost.
The project was able to set many standards for effective project management in the areas
of financial management, project management, monitoring and trouble-shooting, and quality
control above the normal supervision effort of the implementing departments.  A highly
experienced and efficient cadre of government officials, consultants, and NGOs (in various
categories) have emerged from this experience. The GOM has documented many of the project
management improvements, and plans to retain the core unit in the Department of Revenue and
Forests to carry out the remaining works, operation of the disaster management activities
including maintaining the GIS/disaster management information system and the VHF and V-Sat
network, work with the DFID for detailed implementation of the disaster management plan. This
core unit, with an annual recurrent budget of about Rs. 100 million, will be headed by a Deputy
Secretary, and will have a Network Manager (on contract), a full-time GIS expert (one of the
seven GIS experts that will be recruited by the MRSAC which will manage and update the
DMIS), the state-owned electronic corporation (MELTRON) that will manage and maintain the
VHF and V-SAT communication network, and other core staff. The GOM is in the process of
setting up a statewide electronic mail facility based on the V-SAT network provided under the
project, thus achieving a substantial secondary benefit that would improve efficiency in
administration. In addition, the GOM is currently exploring ways to impart the management
expertise gains into its own routine operations.
Project implementation support was provided by the Bank, the DFID, UNDP and ADB.
DFID was the key partner along with the Bank and GOM. In addition to co-financing of UJK£1O
million, the DFID provided an additional UK£5.0 million for project implementation support. In
addition, the DFID made available to the Bank, the services of a full-time Project Coordinator
resident in Mumbai, and a social development expert for supervision of project implementation.



36
r4ajor Factors that Affected Project Implementation
The major positive factors that facilitated project implementation were: community, and
NGO participation in various roles, participation by reputable and capable charities and other
donors, mobilization of village level organizations, the project management and monitoring
systems installed at the outset, the use of various specialist expertise on contract, the fully
delegated project managers and technical staff, the District Administrations, the quality assurance
process, the commitment and support of the GOM, and the complete absence of any (political
interference) interference from any party.
Numerous other factors affected the project and the pace of implementation, and are
described below:
Difriculties in Implementing the R&S Component. Implementation of the R&S
component was delayed until mid-1995, due primarily to its complexity, search for an appropriate
strategy, and the time taken to put all systems and procedures in place. The reasons for this were
many: lack of community-based facilitation and effective information delivery mechanisms, project
emphasis on retrofitting that was not popular with beneficiaries, the preparation of estimates that
took a very long time, the role of the junior engineers who would not adhere to targets, about six
month delays due to three work stoppages by junior engineers in support of their demands for
permanent employment, the absence of incentives for project implementation staff, specially junior
engineers, the delays created by the initial damage assessment categorization (of three categories)
for R&S benefits, the introduction of concrete and steel bands for earthquake resistance, and new
building techniques, the time taken for training of over 7,000 artisans, delay in setting up materials
stores, the frequent transfers of key field staff in charge of implementation, and the complex
process for certification of utilization of installments
Dynamics of Community Participation. Facilitating community participation within the
program created a new working environment for all stakeholders and took time to adapt and to
form new working relationships. The political and other influences may have played an important
role in influencing the manner of community participation. The GOM has tried to accommodate
all these concems, and provided the forum to resolve these differences through community
groups, village development committees, rural settlement planners, incorporating village
facilitators (Mahila Manidals, Samvak Sahayaks), inducting NGOs for various activities, and
providing a grievance redressal mechanism, and the NGOs a forum at the highest level of
Government (at the CIG) when specific issues arose.
Court-Ordered Actions. In the initial stage of the project, resorting to litigation and
obtaining court orders was common and delayed implementation. These cases were resolved
through the effective intervention by the apex courts, High Courts and the Supreme Court. The
Supreme Court appreciated the difficulties the GOM faced in the implementation of the program.
It 'stayed' a large-scale demand for the re-survey and re-categorization of villages, which assured
that the project retain its scope as originally envisaged. The Supreme Court's interventions also
discouraged excessive litigation, which would have distracted the attention of the GOM. The
continuous monitoring of the Supreme Court over the progress of the project facilitated project



37
implementation a great deal.  The project has demonstrated a very positive example of
constructive judicial intervention.
Regional Water Supply Project. The problems with the major water supply scheme (the
project worth Rs 443 million- US$12 million) that was to provide water to 37 villages had a
major impact on the project. Apart from taking two years longer to complete, workmanship of
the contractor, poor resources of the contractor, allocation of completed houses was difficult, as
communities were unwilling to.move due to lack of permanent water supply even though
temporary water supply was available. The quality of works, the design problems led to the GOM
having to undertake remedial works worth about Rs. 45 million (US$1.0 million).
Community Participation and Contractors. The program brought communities and
contractors into close contact. Although contractors accepted the presence of villagers on-site,
regular inspection became time consuming and problematic for the contractors. Equally villagers
were keen to review progress and give opinions on construction. This relationship was not
always smooth especially in Killari - the largest epicenter village. Beneficiaries were encouraged
to visit the houses and familiarize themselves with their individual houses under construction. At
one point in Killari workmanship was criticized and villagers stopped the work on site. The
resumption of the work created much delay and remedial work took almost eight months to
complete. The involvement of beneficiaries in overseeing contractor work largely continued
through village construction committees that visited the site with the supervisory staff.
Restoration of Monuments. Although it did not affect the main project objectives, the
implementation problems in the Department of Culture, necessitated the curtailment of the
restoration of monuments, after about three years of deliberations and preparations. Finally, a
small amount of work (Rs. 12.3 million) that could be implemented using force account
procedures was undertaken and the work is still being completed.
Financial Management. Efficient financial controls, accounting and audit procedures
were set up as part of the project management structure, which included posting a senior financial
adviser. As adequate accounting skills were lacking a the District level, a consultant was hired to
provide training and support in accounting to the implementing agencies, through a computerized
project management system. This support greatly facilitated financial control, proper accounting
and record keeping in various offices. These tools assisted the task of coordinating and managing
the compilation of periodic reimbursement claims, and monitoring financial progress of the
project.
Cash disbursements to beneficiaries of the repair and strengthening component were paid
into bank account of beneficiaries specially opened for this purpose which were regularly audited.
The withdrawal of the total credit is expected with the processing of pending applications. The
DF1ID (ODA) grant of Pound Sterling 10 millions administered by the Bank (TF 23356) is fully
disbursed. Year-wise disbursements of the Credit, in US Dollars, for FY95, FY 96, Y97, FY98
and FY99 were 26.8 million, 51.3 million, 74.6 million, 44.7 million, and 22.7 million,
respectively. As some beneficiaries defaulted, the grants made become ineligible for financing
under the Credit. The mission recommends that the PMU identifies such amounts and adjust
these from eligible expenses to be submitted for withdrawal during February / March 1999.



38
The mechanism adopted by GOM to channel funds to implementing agencies is
noteworthy. Once the annual budget was approved by the state legislature, PMU required no
further clearances or approvals from either the Finance or Planning Departments. The PMU
released 75% of the annual budget amount to the implementing agencies, thereby facilitating
project implementation.
The project generally was on time in submission of annual audit reports to the Bank.
PMU was able to provide satisfactory clarifications to auditor's queries.
The mission has requested PMU to furnish the audit report for FY99 through December
1999, expeditiously.
Assessment of Outcome
The project has: introduced simple and effective earthquake resistant features for non-
engineered construction; adopted participatory project implementation in a formal and fully
supportive manner, and used the strengths available within communities and the government. In
addition, created the capacity in the state to respond to future disasters through setting up an
effective disaster management apparatus; adopted many improved and effective project
management and monitoring tools that were adapted to a dynamic and complex project, and set
up a disaster management system with a modern communications network, including an electronic
mail facility connecting all districts of the state. The capacity of the Government of India to
monitor earthquakes down to magnitude 3 intensity was achieved and data on seismic activity is
automatically downloaded at the data center, which greatly enhances the response time.
Lessons Learned
Implementation of Community Participation Approaches in Large Infrastructure
Projects. Community participation was widely emphasized through the MEERP. The repair and
strengthening component targeted individual households and provided finances, materials and
technical advice on an individual basis. This program demonstrates a wide range of housing
options, owner decision making and household investment way beyond that given by the program.
Thus, participation was assured as it was on an individual basis. The strategy adopted in
relocation villages ensured that the entire village participated in the key decision-making on
village layouts, house designs and eligible beneficiaries. Participation thereafter was done through
the Village Level Committees (VLC) which comprised representatives from Gram Panchayats,
women's group, minorities and depressed classes.  The VLC, as the representative body,
participated in all subsequent activities.
Under a different strategy, greater participation could have been achieved by strengthening
the networks and interactions between different neighborhood and social groups within the
villages to ensure representation from a greater constituency. This would have required the
preparation of a community participation strategy for individual villages, its compulsory
implementation, and allowing more time for mobilization and participation. It would have been
difficult to adopt this strategy in an emergency project such as this.



39
Housing Options in A and B Categories. The Government encouraged a range of
agencies including NGOs, donor agencies and private agencies to reconstruct villages. Designs
and costs were in many cases determined by individual agencies and approved by the Collectors
resulting in differences between house types, size and styles, project approach and house value.
This resulted in the demonstration of a number of house models and features including excessive
structural strengths (as in framed concrete buildings), which resulted in the escalation of
community aspiration for framed houses, and higher value features. The presentation of requests
for greater benefits became a common feature of community participation in Category A & B
villages.
Methodologies for Damage Assessment. The lack of a rational damage assessment
methodology has created continuing problems for the project with persistent demands from
villagers for inclusion in the program. This resulted in ad hoc decisions and hasty preparation of
instructions to the assessment teams. Methodologies for damage assessment under various
natural disaster conditions should therefore be developed under the disaster management
framework. During damage assessment, a social assessment should be conducted alongside the
damage assessment concentrating on the following features of the house; social and economic
uses, layout and a value audit of housing features and characteristics for different income and
social groups. This would enable a list of priority features and designs to be established based on
house usage and housing aspirations. This would then inform the design parameters of new
houses and avoid unnecessary investment in features that the community may not have prioritized.
The Use of Sanivad Sahayaks and Mahila Mandlals. The involvement of local women's
groups and village women as motivators and communicators in the repair and strengthening
program was a highly successful participation strategy. Targeting local women created the
vehicle needed for disseminating information over a large number of dispersed villages. Mahila
Mandals formed the linkages between villages and the administration needed to implement and
monitor the project. In addition it created opportunities for institutional development of Mahila
Mandals, individual training opportunities for village based women in earthquake technology and
sustained relationships between groups and the Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats, the
benefits of which extend well beyond the span of the program.
The Impact of Model Houses and Pilot Strengthening in Demonstrating Earthquake
Technologies: Model houses constructed under the project served a linited purpose. Firstly, not
enough of them were constructed early in the project to provide a demonstration effect, and
secondly, the earlier donor-built higher standard (and cost) houses served as models for the
communities. The project should have exercised greater influence on the design of donor
housing, and appropriate models should have been built early in the project implementation cycle.
Pilot Strengthening of houses in surrounding villages had a limited demonstration effect as few
larger houses could be incorporated.  The reasons for this are that the investment by the
beneficiary needed to retrofit larger houses was greater than the amount offered by the scheme,
requiring significant personal investment by the beneficiary. The perception of risk in unaffected
villages and the perception that stone houses might be weaken by such techniques meant that few
larger houses were incorporated. By contrast low-income households participated in the scheme
as the payments led to significant improvements in smaller houses with little personal contribution.
However the demonstration effect was diminished as these houses offered less scope to



40
demonstrate the techniques and owners had less influence than larger house owners within the
village.
Retrofitting in Repair and Strengthening Villages: Emphasis was placed on retrofitting
for repair and strengthening old houses but this did not meet the expectation of many of the
beneficiaries. The result was that very few beneficiaries opted to retrofit old houses, despite
literature and technical advice by Junior Engineers but chose to build a small additional room to
their house with earthquake features.
Financial Management. Creation of the PMU with financial powers, with powers to
allocate funds following appropriation, proper accounting and financial controls, a computerized
project management system facilitated timely project implementation and efficient financial
management of the project.



41
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2594-IN
OPERATION PLAN
PRESENTAND FUTURE PLANS                              PERFORMANCEINDICATORS                         TARGETDATE
Government of Mahsarashtma___________________
1. Completion of Balance Houses                      Completion of project obligation              June 1999
2. Disaster Management Plan Operation:
(a)  Continue Disaster Management Council chaired by  (a) Commitment of the GOM to disaster        (a) DMC formed in 1996
Chief Secretary;                                management
(b)  Create Disaster Management Unit headed by a     (b) Continuation of institutional arrangement on a    (b) July 1999
Deputy Secretary, one Network Manger from       permanent basis
MELTRON, one GIS expert from MRSAC;
(c)  Budget aniually for salaries of DMU staff, annual  (c) Appropriation of necessary recurrent funds to    (c ) Commenced in FY99 with
license fee for VHF and V-SAT waveband, and     operate and maintain comununications network  Rs. 100 million budget
emergency response centers;                                                                   allocation
(d)  Maintain and update disaster management         (d) Capability to provide efficient emergency  (d) Completed for S districts in
information system;                             response in disasters                         March 1999
(e)  Complete disaster management infonnation system for  (e) Capability to provide efficient emergency  (e) July 1999
remaining districts with DFID assistance        response to the whole state, with $4 million from
DFID
(f)  Train communities for disaster management activities   (f) Training of conummunities in loss reduction and    (f) July 1999
with DFID assistance                            hazard mitigation activities to continue with DFID
assistance
(g)  Operate Emergency Response Centers and conduct  (g) Constant readiness to take action in the event of  (g) Two years starting July
drills at specified times                       disasters                                     1999
(h)  Set up an earthquake engineering research facility for   (h) State capacity building for seismic monitoring    (h) September 1999
Maharashtra                                     and research
3.  Recurrent Funds for NGO-Managed Social
FaciltIes
(a) Provide grants to NGOs operating schools, hospitals,   (a) Appropriation of necessary recurrent funds to    (a) Commenced in FY99
education complexes, homes for handicapped and aged  facilitate operation and maintenance of social
facilities
4. Recovery of Loans and Advances
(a)  Recover loan repayments from beneficiaries who  (a) Enforcement of the terms of the loan agreement   (a) July 1999
received houses larger than 250 sq. feet area;  made at the allocation of houses in relocation
villages
(b) Recover advances from defaulters in the R&S      (b) Recovery of funds misused by beneficiaries of    (b) July 1999
component                                       repair and strengthening component
5. Zilla Parishads and Gram Panchayats
(a)  Register and value new houses, and commnence    (a) Preparation for levy of land and property taxes   (a) January 2000
property tax collection on aunual and bi-annual basis;
(b)  Organize and finance maintenance of infrastructure;    (b) Delivery of civic services by local governments
(c) Awareness raising for safe building techniques   (b) January 2000
(c)  Disseminate model guidelines for earthquake resistant  incorporating earthquake resistant features
construction for masonry buildings;             (d) Development control functions exercised by  (c) Continuing activity by
local governments                             NGOs
(d)  Issue building pernmits for building construction in
Latur and Osmanabad                                                                           (d) January 2000
6. Communities and Water Users Committees
(a) Form Water User Comnittees                       (a) Assumption of responsibility for village water   (a) Formed in late 199S
supply
(b) Water Users Comminees Prepare Operation Plans    (b) Development of procedures for managing    (b) July 1999
systems
(c) Commnence collection of user charges             (c) Community payment for water supply        (c)September 1999
(d) Organize operation and maintenance of facilities with   (d) Efficient operation and maintenance of service    (d) January 2000
local govemments
GOI Department of Science and Technology             __L
1.  Budget annually for recurrent costs of the seismic  (a) Assurance of system operation through  (a) Continuous from FY99
monitoring system;                              operation and maintenance
2.  Operate National Seismological Data Center, and  (b) Advancement of scientific knowledge of    (b) Center operational, but no
share data with all researchers                 earthquakes                                   agreement on data sharing



42
Appendix B-I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
PROJECT
CREDIT 2594-IN
Borrower's Evaluation
EVALUATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA
Introduction
The state of Maharashtra experienced a devastating earthquake of 6.4 on the Richter scale on
September 30, 1993 in Marathwada. In Latur and Osmanabad districts, which were worst affected in this
region, 7,928 people died and 16,000 people were injured. The damages were most severe in 67 villages,
where most of the houses collapsed, and in other 1500 villages, houses suffered considerable damage. The
loss to livestock was considerable, with 15,847 cattle perished. The earthquake also had an impact on
house and property in 11 other districts of the state. The total loss of public and private property was
estimated in excess of Rs. 1,1000 million.
The Government of Maharashtra drew up the Maharashtra Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation
Programme, in consultation with the Government of India and the World Bank and the other stakeholders.
The MEERP commenced in July 1994, and after having run its full course of implementation concluded on
December 31, 1998. In terms of physical reconstruction and rehabilitation, the MEERP in its four and half
years of implementation has accomplished all the objectives it set out in the beginning. Financially, the
project has done equally well, having utilized the entire credit of US $ 220 million extended by the World
Bank. It is one of the largest rehabilitation programs implemented in India, and has come up as the most
demonstrable example of a successful post-disaster reconstruction program in the country.
In view of the mass of achievements the MEERP has to its credit, it would be a very useful
exercise on the eve of its conclusion to place the entire process of relief and rehabilitation in a long-term
perspective. Through the years of colossal activities that started with the earthquake of September 30
1993, several practices and innovations have emerged which are the most remarkable achievements of this
project, and which could very well be standardized and emulated in any post-disaster reconstruction
Programme in a developing country.
Relief & Rescue Activities
It began with the relief operations immediately after the earthquake on September 30 1993, when
the Government of Maharashtra (GoM) moved with a great speed and urgency in mounting swift rescue
and relief operations. The scale of state response and management of disaster at the field level was



43
recognized and appreciated at the national and international levels, and it set the standards for all the
subsequent activities. It was a remarkable display of the political leadership dealing with the situation up
front, which produced a great speed and coherence in the decision-making. The Chief Secretary's office
converted itself into the state control room, the nerve center of all the decision-making, which galvanized
the resources of all the departments and agencies within the government. The state effort received a
tremendous fillip when the arned forces joined the rescue operations almost instantly and further when the
national and international aid organizations and NGOs participated in the relief operations in the most
spontaneous show of human sympathy and solidarity. The rescue and relief operations in the aftermath of
the Latur earthquake were one of the most efficient and organized ever seen in India.
In the wake of this tragedy, one of the most far-sighted decisions taken by the GOM, was that there
would be no cash assistance to the people affected, except the ex gratia payment to the next of the kin of
deceased and those who were disabled. The GOM arranged medical help, food, drinking water, temporary
shelter, and other supportive services to all the affected people in the area, but no cash was handed out in
lieu of these services. The ex-gratia payment to the next of the kin of the deceased or to next of kin of the
deceased or to the injured was given through individual bank deposits.
This deliberate decision to avoid the cash transaction as much as possible in the relief administration
succeeded in avoiding the complaints that are generally associated with such situations i.e.,
misappropriation of cash or doling out cash to undeserving individuals. A survey of beneficiaries recently
done under the project shows an overwhelming appreciation of the entire relief operations among the
people. It could very well be suggested said that a number of lessons in terms of management and
leadership could be learnt through these relief operations in Latur & Osmanabad districts, which provided
inmmediate support and succor to the people without giving way to populist measures characteristic of these
situations.
Policy Support for Rehabilitation
The blueprint of a massive rehabilitation Program was drawn up simultaneously, along with the
rescue and relief operations. The GOM's project proposal for the rehabilitation, which was submitted to
the World Bank, provided a frame of reference for a wide-ranging consultations. The Government of India
(GOI) set up an advisory committee comprising professionals and NGO representatives, chaired by Mr.
Padmanabhaiyya, Secretary, Urban Development, to assist the GOM in formulating the rehabilitation plan.
The World Bank was involved with these preparatory activities from the beginning, as the GOI signed the
MOU with the World Bank for supporting the rehabilitation program merely 5 days after the earthquake,
on October 5 1993. The GOM discussed and finalized the entire strategy and scope of the Program after
extensive consultations with the World Bank. The guidihg principles of the rehabilitation Program were
defined in a policy document that was put together in December 1993, for the first time as a draft
document. This draft policy evolved through various inputs and comments from the GOI, World Bank, and
the NGOs, which were duly incorporated in the final policy document. The earthquake rehabilitation
policy as it shaped finally received the approval of the Cabinet and the State Legislature, and the Chief
Minister formally declared this policy on March 19, 1994.
The entire process of developing the rehabilitation policy and plan was consultative and
participative in nature, and the policy reflected broad consensus underlying the rehabilitation Program. It
took into account the rehabilitation needs, local sensitivities, the organizational strength available with the
government, and the financial estimates of the plan. The declaration of a coherent policy was one of the
most defining moments of the project implementation. It clearly brought out that the rehabilitation could
not be an activity conceived on an ad hoc basis; it must have a well-formulated policy support.



44
It was a first of its own kind that a rehabilitation Program in this country was supported by a policy
document, which presented an exposition of objectives and strategy systematically, and spelt out the
entitlement of beneficiaries. The policy document also laid down the organizational framework for the
implementation of plan and formally incorporated all the institutional features of a community participation
effort into the Program. It emphasized the seismic strategy for the entire rehabilitation plan, and laid down
the criteria for damage assessment. All the components of the rehabilitation Program came to be were
clearly defined in the policy document. It also laid the foundations of an ambitious disaster management
plan the state prepared and implemented during the project. Thus, the invocation of a policy document,
which was an expression of the collective will of all the stakeholders, has been one of the most crucial
factors responsible for the smooth course of the Program.
Political Context
The political context of the earthquake rehabilitation Program has been extremely conducive from
the beginning itself, which made a big difference to the pace and quality of the rehabilitation Program. In
the entire process involving the preparation of rehabilitation plan, the negotiations with the World Bank,
and the Program implementation, the political executives extended their complete leadership support. This
support continued even after the government changed and the opposition parties took over the government.
There was no attempt at changing the strategy or the scope of the Program.  The entire Program
implementation proceeded apace without any undue political interference. Again, it was the wide-ranging
consultations in the course of drawing the rehabilitation plan that was responsible for the unity of
perception among the political class regarding the rehabilitation needs.  It also suggests that the
rehabilitation Program must follow a democratic process for building a consensual package, and once the
entitlements are defined in accordance with the democratic norms, there would be little scope for an undue
interference or meddling in the implementation.
Programme Management and Implementation Plan:
Project Management Unit
The GOM set up an independent Program management structure for the implementation of
MEERP, which proved to be the most workable institutional arrangement. The nucleus of this structure
has been the Programrme Management Unit (PMU), headed by the Secretary-level officer of the GOM. The
GOM provided a considerable autonomy and flexibility to the PMU to facilitate decision-making and
improvise the modalities of implementation. Two Chief Engineers, two Deputy Secretaries, one Financial
Advisor, Programme Management Consultants and a number of other consultants and field agencies have
supported the Secretary. Since the PMU was solely and exclusively responsible for the earthquake
rehabilitation, it could concentrate itself upon the Program, dealing with all the management and
implementation issues. All the procurement and contractual decisions were taken within the PMU, and
there was no reference to the planning and finance or any other department of the GOM for any project-
related decision. Internalization of these powers within the PMU accelerated the pace of implementation,
and brought a consistency to the procurement issues. The project authorities acquired the confidence in
trouble-shooting local issues, and improvised and innovated in all the situations.
Cabinet Sub-committee & Central Implementation Group
At the apex of policy-making structure, the GOM set up a cabinet Sub-committee headed by Chief
Minister. This sub-committee, which had other senior Cabinet Ministers as members, took all the policy



45
decisions. It was followed by the Central Implementation Group (CIG), which proved to be the most
efficacious and influential in decision-making on all the aspects of the Program. The Chief Secretary, the
chief of the civil service heads the CIG, and it has the Secretary, Finance, Secretary, Planning and
Secretary, Earthquake Rehabilitation as the permanent members. It would invite Secretaries and senior-
ranking officials of other departments if they Nvere required for taking decisions on issues concerning their
departments. The CIG worked as an empowered committee, and it would take decision on almost all the
policy matters related to the project. The CIG would meet every fortnight in beginning of the project for
decisions on specific issues. As the project progressed, the frequency of the meetings came down.
However, it would meet periodically and take decision on the basis of agenda notes on specific issues,
which would be circulated among the conmmittee members. The CIG eliminated the need for a long and
circuitous movement of files for taking quick decisions on pressing matters. It also yielded the benefit of
collectively committing the government to a decision. The CIG has been one of the effective spin-offs of
the MEERP in institutional terms, and now the GOM is contemplating setting up of similar mechanism for
other projects as well.
District-Level Implementation Agencies
At the district level, a series of representative committees were constituted.  A district level
committee functioned under the chairmanship of the Guardian Minister of the district, which represented all
the leading political functionaries of the district. There was also an executive committee headed by the
Collector by comprising all the district officials. The field-level agencies proved to be a very useful blend
of the existing authority structure in the district and the incremental requirements of project
implementation. At the district level, the Collector who is the chief of the district administration heads the
PMU. In this capacity, the Collector has the traditional clout and authority over all the agencies and
departments functioning within the district. The Collector ensured that all the local problems were settled
through his supervision and intermediation.  The Collector also ensured the cooperation of all the
departments and agencies within the district to implement the rehabilitation program in a time-bound
manner. In the relocation category, acquisition of land for the construction of new houses was one of the
most critical components. The acquisition of land has been one of the primary duties of the Collector, and,
therefore, the Collector played an extremely useful role by making the land available either through
negotiation or acquisition. An administrative as well as a technical wving supported the Collector. The
Additional Collector, an experienced officer in the revenue and relief admninistration, heads the
administrative wing. The Additional Collector provided the most important link between the government
and the beneficiaries, and he was the most identifiable officer for working with various departments. The
technical wing led by one Superintending Engineer each in both the districts provided all the technical
support and services to the PMU at the field level, while it interacted with the PMU at the central level for
all the procurement matters. The entire project management structure was, therefore, unique in terms of
reinforcing different levels and units for implementing decisions within the project.
Construction and Engineering Consultancy
The GOM decided to resettle 52 worst damaged villages on a new location. In order to carry out
the construction work of houses and amenities in these 52 relocated villages, the GOM appointed
construction and engineering consultants.  This was yet another innovative feature of the Program
management, whereby the engineering consultants substantially replaced the Public Works Department's
traditional role and responsibilities, thus doing way with the deputation of a large contingent of engineers
from the PWD. The engineering consultants played a pivotal role in the preparation of the village layout,
design of houses, tender documentation, supervision and billing of works. There was yet another
experiment of associating the rural resettlement planners along with the engineering consultants in



46
preparing village layouts. This experiment was extended further when the community participation
consultants joined the planning process by drawing in the villagers. For the first time, the social and
community aspects of housing were subsumed into the role of engineering consultants. The engineering
consultants, community participation consultants, and rural resettlement planners participated in the village
meetings and consulted the concemed villagers before finalizing the village/ house plan. It widened the
consultative process and brought together different perspective in the rehabilitation Program. The most
important lesson to record here is that the appointment of engineering consultants has set an irreversible
trend of privatization of engineering services in all the technical projects.
Reconstruction, Repairs and Strengthening (R, R & S) Programme
In the R, R & S Program, the largest component of the MEERP, the GOM adopted a totally
different strategy.  The GOM  acted as a facilitator for the entire Program, instead of being the
implementing agency.  It was an owner-driven Program, under which the beneficiaries took the
responsibility for carrying out the repairs and strengthening of the houses, with financial and technical
support from the GOM. It was organizationally a great challenge for the GOM, with 197,755 beneficiaries
participating in this Program, spread geographically over 2500 villages in 13 districts of the state.
Accessing these beneficiaries, and motivating them to undertake repairs / reconstruction required a multi-
pronged effort. Firstly, the GOM tied up with the local banks, which would route the cash assistance to the
beneficiaries. Secondly, the GOM set up material depots at different places, where the beneficiaries could
come with the coupons issued to them, and collect cement and steel. It was one of the most innovating
arrangements, through which 10,329 metric tonnes of steel and 423,061 metric tonnes of cement were
distributed among the beneficiaries. Thirdly, the GOM appointed around 800 junior engineers on a
contract basis, who provided technical assistance to the beneficiaries. Finally, the GOM took up a major
Programn of information dissemination through the community participation consultants. Since the issue of
safe housing was close to women in the households, the community participation aimed at the involvement
and participation of women. Training of women masons and formation of women's self-help groups gave
an added impetus to the entire process. The entire gamut of efforts created a dynamics of its own through
which the beneficiaries became very aware of their entitlements, and conscious of the steps involved in the
rehabilitation process. The R, R & S Program soon acquired the dimension of a housing movement. The
people invested their own money, in addition to what they received as assistance, in their reconstruction
effort, which enhanced the scale of activities further. The quantitative mass of works in the R & S brought
about a qualitative transformation, as the housing stock in the R, R & S villages rejuvenated itself, and
villages acquired a renewed look. The R, R & S Program has emerged as the most demonstrable example
of self-help rehabilitation Program. It has effectively shown the results people's efforts can produce in a
facilitating environment. People's own contribution to the Program made it a complimentary Program,
rather than a dole-out. The R, R & S Program is the crowning success of this project, and, amnong other
things, its great importance lies in being a replicable example of mass housing Program and people's
partnership with the government in this core sector.
Procurement
The MEERP implementation involved an enormous amount of procurement. The procurement was
of three types: civil works, goods, and services. Altogether, there were 9 ICBs costing Rs. 1905 million,
and 27 LCBs, above Rs. 50 million, costing a total of Rs. 3103 million, 43 consultancies costing a total of
Rs. 401 million, and 518 LCBs of less than Rs. 50 million. In relocation villages, the GOM awarded a
large number of bids for the construction of houses and amenity buildings, following the World Bank
procedure. The entire bidding process was smooth and efficient, and all the bids were decided well within
the time-schedule laid down by the World Bank for this process. Similarly, for the R & S category, the



47
GOM procured cement and steel in huge quantity for the material depots it set up. The bid evaluation,
quality of supplies, transportation arrangements, warehousing operations- a wide gamut of processes
associated with the procurement did not have any procedural or financial shortcoming. The World Bank
accepted and approved all the bid recommendations of the PMU. Audit inspections, internal as well as
external, provide a very good testimony to the transparency and fairness of the procurement operations
followed in the project.
A very important outcome of the project, which needs to be preserved and fostered, is the building
of institutional expertise in the procurement procedures. A pool of professionals worked on procurement
issues within the PMU continuously, and the experience and familiarity they acquired in the course of
Program, contributed to the quality of procurement decision-making. It is important that the expertise and
reputation the PMU has built over the years be utilized for other projects in the government.
Outsourcing of Services
Under the MEERP, the outsourcing of services was undertaken on a large scaie. A large number
of consultancies, technical and non-technical, national and intemational were built into the implementation.
The international consultants broughlt a new perspective to the project, especially in area of seismic
technology and disaster management. The PMU officials effectively supervised all the consultancies, and
ensured the quality of outputs.  In the process, the PMU acquired a very good capacity for the
admninistration and supervision of consultancies, which could be utilized in other GOM projects. This
represents another institutional gain for the PMU.
The most important consultancy, which could become part of a standard prcject management, has
been the Programme Management Consultancy (PMC). The PMC has been very helpful to the PMU in
setting up of a management infornation system, monitoring of the performance indicators, a-nd developing
a reporting mechanism on a monthly and quarterly basis. The management support provided by the PMC
on a continuous basis meant a very important professional input into the MEERP implementation.
However, it may also be mentioned that the PMU officials were, at times, over-stretched in dealing
with a large number of consultancies. It put tremendous strain on the officials to allocate time to a number
of consultants, monitor their work and admninister their contracts. It would be a more efficient arrangement,
if all the consultancies are delineated in sufficient details in the beginning of the project, and the capacity of
project management is built accordingly.
Technical Audit & Quality Assurance
The quality of construction has been was an important concern of the MEEERP. To ensure the
quality of work under different components of the MEERP, the GOM outsourced a technical audit and
quality assurance group on a continuous basis. This group reported upon the quality of Work on a
fortnightly basis, making observations on the work in progress in all the categories of works. A system
was evolved through which the compliance and rectification followed the technical observations  The
payment would be cleared only after the concerns of technical audit were suitably met.
It was for the first time in the state that an external mechanism for quality supervision was made part
of a project on a continuous basis. It helped the project management to get a regular feedback on the
quality of work. It also minimized complaints regarding the quality of work, and enstured that the minimum
standards of quality are observed in all the works taken up under the MEERP. Such an arrangement,



48
which produced very satisfying results for the MEERP, could again be a part of standard project
management.
Financial Management
The financial management of the project distinguished itself by building an excellent system of
compiling accounts of expenditures, preparing claims for submission to the DEA, and seeking
reimbursements. The PMU would submit all the claims for reimbursement within a month of the actual
expenditures, and get the reimbursement from the World Bank within a period of two to three months. The
PMU incurred expenditures in accordance with its annual projection, and has succeeded in realizing the
entire proceeds of the World Bank credit. All the internal and external audit inspection of the project,
which has been on an annual basis, has not yielded any serious shortcoming in the financial accounting and
procedure.
Training
There was a strong emphasis on training and orientation under different components of the
MEERP. The Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai organized training in seismic technology for all the
engineers participating in the Program. Similarly, the accounting staff received specialized training in the
preparation of accounts and reimbursement claims. All the senior officials of the project were sent abroad
for training courses.
A number of seminars and workshops were organized to deliberate and evolve mid-course
corrections on different aspects of the Program. One of the most important events was the organization of
the international workshop on Disaster Management Plan in Mumbai during July 6-8, in which all the
activities related to disaster management plan were presented before a wide audience of international
experts, NGOs, and government officials. The GOM's presentations on the MEERP and Disaster
Management Plan in June 1997 and December 1998 in the World Bank in Washington were also greatly
appreciated.
Social & Community Aspects of the MEERP Implementation:
Community Participation
All the stakeholders recognized that the people's participation in the reconstruction Program was
critical to its success. The MEERP has been one of the first experiments of conimunity participation
structurally built into the Program, and a social activity being organized on the basis of consultancies. The
nature of people's participation, however, differed between the government-driven relocation activity and
the owner-driven R & S Program, and the consultancies for these components were organized separately.
The design of rehabilitation components impinged upon the method of community participation. In
the relocation villages, the village-level committee became an institutional vehicle of community
participation, whereas in the R & S villages, the campaign was undertaken through the involvement and
participation of conumunity and wvomen. The character and depth of community participation in relocation
component varied to the extent the village-level committee was representative of the collective interests of
the village. The village-level committee also reflected the power equations and community alignments
existing in the village, another defining factor for the community participation process. Further, the entire
construction Program being managed by the government or the NGOs, the opportunities for community
participation were not as many as in an oxvner-driven R & S Program. The R & S villages did not have the



49
universal coverage of entitlement as was the case in relocation villages. The village-level committee,
therefore, could not become effective in these villages. The strategy in R & S villages was to reach the
households, spread the awareness, and make them participate in the reconstruction Program. As the
awareness about the entitlements and owner-driven Program spread, the people, especially women, came
forward, and participated in the Program en masse. The R & S efforts became a great mobilization of
popular initiative.
The grievance redressal that took place in the midst of community participation became a dynamic
activity. It opened up the entire process, and brought in an ethos of accessibility and transparent decision-
making. The MEERP has been, in true sense of the term, a people's project.
Partnership with NGOs
The NGOs joined the GOM soon after the earthquake, making it one of the most enduring
partnerships. The nature of partnership evolved as the relief operations moved into the rehabilitation phase.
A vast number of NGOs participated in the relief work, assisting the government in providing all the
support and assistance to the people affected by the earthquake. As the relief phase wound up, only those
NGOs, which had the resources and organizational capacity to participate in the rehabilitation Program
continued. These NGOs adopted villages for relocation, and started reconstruction effort through their own
resources. The NGOs had limited resources, and therefore, the GOM stepped in. Soon the NGOs started
building houses with the government support. The NGOs constructed a large number of houses, more than
20,000, with the GOM's financial support. The scale of NGOs' participation in the MEERP has been very
massive.
it was for the first time that the GOM utilized this important resource for building activities on
such a large scale. It was done along with the contractor-managed building Program, which speaks of the
improvisations made in the project implementation. That the NGOs emerged as an alternative resource
group for the construction activity, also signifies the strength and capability of the NGO sector in the state.
A great volume of financial transaction took place between the GOM and the NGOs, which again testifies
to the trust between them, and a performance-oriented relationship. A number of corporate companies
participated in the Program as donors, and worked as the NGOs in the rehabilitation Program, validates
further the legitimacy and usefulness of this approach.
The nature of rehabilitation Program, however, characterized the nature of NGOs' participation.
Only large and resourceful NGOs and corporate companies continued in the Program; the others withdrew
immediately after the relief phase was over. The denominational NGOs, as compared to the secular NGOs
and advocacy groups, played a much greater role in the rehabilitation Program. The local resource-persons
organized themselves into NGO groups, and became very effective catalysts in the Program. Another
noticeable feature was that the NGOs were active only in 'A' and 'B' category villages, where the
construction was undertaken on a large scale. In 'C' category R & S villages, the NGOs played a negligible
role. Since the R & S Program involved contacting every household individually over a big geographical
dispersion, the NGOs found it difficult to intervene in this Program. The varying levels of NGOs'
participation in many components of the same rehabilitation Program, also indicates changing nature of
priorities and activities of NGOs.
Gender Empowerment
The PMU acknowledged it in the inception of the MEERP that the women represented the most
critical resource group for the implementation of the Program. It was important that women were aware of



50
their entitlemerts and joined the rehabilitation process as a social group. The objective was women's
empowerment, which was built into all the decisions the GOM took. The ex gratia assistance that the
families received in case of deaths was deposited in a joint account, in which women participated. The
widows were entitled to a house in relocation villages. All houses allotted under the MEERP have the joint
title of male and female members of the family. In all the village-level commnittees, the women were
represented. It synergized very well with constitutional representation of women in Panchayat Raj
institutions. The representation of women extended into diverse areas, and generated its own dynamics in
the course of implementation.
In the R & S Program, the women's groups worked actively, and they organized awareness
campaigns. The Samvad Sahayak, generally a woman, worked as a facilitator at the village level. Once
te women participated actively in the R & S Program, and contributed to the construction effort, its
coverage had a phenomenal growth. It received added impetus with training to women masons and
participation of womeni junior engineers. The GOM also took the initiative of setting self-help groups of
women, and promoted savings and economic activities through these groups. This effort has taken deep
roots, with a number of NGOs engaged in working with self-help groups. Till now, 476 self-help groups
have been fonrmed. The GOM has contributed Rs. 24 million to the Village Development Fund, which has
started disbursing loans to these self-help groups, and the recovery rate of these loans is above 90 per cent.
In relocation villages, a better availability of civic amenities such as schools, hospitals, women's
centre, etc., would increase social opportunities to women and imjprove the quality of life. More important,
the small houses following the patters of urban settlement would promote nuclear families in these villages,
which would improve the reproductive health of women.
The MEERP has actively targeted women both as a beneficiary as well as a valuable change agent.
'Tle success of R & S Program which drew a great participation of women's group underlines the
-pronounced gender orientation of this project.
Mitigation Aspects of the MEERP Implementation:
,eismkic Technology
One of the riost significant features of the MEERP has been the appropriation of seismic
technology into -the popular building lexicon in rural areas of Maharashtra. A vast Program of earthquake
mitigation created strong awareness about the seismic technology and convinced the people of its efficacy
and usefulness. However, it was not a passive, uncritical acceptance of an expert technical prescription. It
was based o n a careful assessment of people's spatial planning.
In the beginninlg of the Program, retrofitting of houses was the most advocated technical strategy
for the R & S Program. The beneficiaries were reluctant to accept it. Their perception was that the
retrofitting was more a patchwork and it would not bring any change in the structural strength or features
of house. In their view, the probability of a retrofitted house surviving an earthquake was not very high.
What they wanted instead was a new brick and cement structure, which would withstand an earthquake
better. They also considered the reconstruction Program an opportunity to increase living space available
in their houses. For one year, the Program did not make appreciable progress because of these differences
over technical strategy. Finally, the selection of technology was left to the beneficiaries, and the people
overwhelmingly preferred the option of reconstruction.  Once the Program  took off, the famirlies
internalized seismic technology, through the technical assistance of junior engineers and community
awareness carnpaign. All the technical terms-- bands, corner stones, through stones-- becarne part of the



51
common parlance in this area. The GOM took other steps to institutionalize the popular learning. The
training programs ,f9r engineers and the members of local self-government, posters and pamphlets for
schools and village Panchayats, and finally the manual for non-engineered buildings-- these represent the
GO:M's long-term measures to bring this essential mitigation technology closer to the people. The popular
use and acceptance of seismic technology has been the most important learning point of the MEERP.
Backed up by a right mix of incentive and awareness, a relevant and appropriate technology could always
be made an integral part of the people's living environment, has been effectively underscored by the
MEERP.
Disaster Management Plan
The most far-reaching contribution the MEERP rendered in terms of capability building was in the
form of preparation and activation of the disaster management plan. Starting as a sub-text in the credit
agreement, it acquired a dimension and momentum of its own, and became a full-fledged and independent
activity. The disaster management plan activities attracted the full support of all the international agencies-
- the World Bank, DFID, and the UNDP, and the GOM reciprocated this support with an exceptional
commitment to the entire process.
The disaster management plan activity grew into several sub-components. It originally began with
the preparation of state and district plans, following a well-defined structure of risk assessment and
vulnerability analysis, response plan, and mitigation strategy. The state plan envisages an elaborate
reinforcing and supporting role for the state agencies in case of all the disasters in the state, while the
district plans are characterized by a vulnerability analysis, resource database and action plan specific to the
respective districts.
The other sub-components of disaster management plan soon followed. These sub-components
included setting up of the Emergency Operations Centre in the state headquarters, and the control rooms in
all the divisions and districts, the VHF and VSAT network for intra-district and inter-district
communication, and a GIS-based Disaster Management Information System for the entire state. These
activities, which have institutional arrangements for their maintenance and sustainability, provide an
operational context to the disaster management plans. The communication and GIS support have their own
multiplication use, for instance, a statewide intra-government e-mail network, which is being set up. Over
a period of time, the information and communication support they make available to the government, would
help introduce a new operating environment for decision-making. The disaster management plan activities
have emerged as the most important capability-building exercise for the state government, and an
intemationally acclaimed example of disaster management planning in developing countries.
An Assessment of the World Bank's contribution
The World Bank, which was the principal funding source for the MEERP, provided the most
efficient support and competent guidance to the project authorities throughout the course of Program
implementation. The Bank's response to the tragedy of the earthquake was in the best humanitarian spirit;
on October 6, 1993, within a week of the disaster, the GOI signed a MOU with the World Bank for the
rehabilitation Program. The Bank's commitment to the project from the very beginning made a qualitative
difference to the project design. The World Bank's professional inputs made it a policy-oriented Program,
with a well-defined entitlement structure. The Bank also articulated the need for an integrated Program
management, which the PMU embodied, to be institutionalized up front. The continuous supervision of the
World Bank missions, and the most practical approach of the team task members, Jelena Pantelic, and
Chandra Godavitarne, in solving problems afid evolving mid-course corrections have been extremely



52
valuable to the project authorities.  The Bank's support also facilitated the participation of other
international multilateral agencies, the DFID, UNDP, and the ADB, and a host of professional agencies
and organizations.
The MEERP's identification with the World Bank has been very strong. There is no aspect of the
Program implementation on which the GOM has not conferred with the World Bank. The consultations
between the project authorities and the World Bank were on a continuous basis; and it could be cited as an
example of the best professional relationship. In fact, one of the most important factors for the success of
the MEERP has been the keen understanding and appreciation the GOM and the World Bank shared about
the requirements of Program implementation.
One of the most remarkable features of the multilateral assistance to the MEERP has been the
synergy and synchronicity achieved among all the international agencies, the World Bank, the Departmnent
for International Development (DFID), and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). While
the World Bank supported the components related to construction, hardware, and technology, the DFID
and VNDP assistance ivere very important for providing a significant social and community dimension to
the Program. These two international agencies supported the cost of all the community participation efforts
organized through consultants in the both the categories of Relocation and R, R & S. In addition, these
agencies extended financial support for a number of consultants providing technical and professional
services to the project. The documentation of Disaster Management Plans for the state and all the districts
was accomplished, largely due to support available through these agencies. One of the most important
requirement of the project was the human resource development, to which both the agencies devoted a lot of
attention. All the training support for the MEERP officials within the country and abroad was made
available by these agencies. The flexibility the DFID and UNDP showed in leveraging the massive
assistance provided by the World Bank has been one of the most positive experiences of the project
implementation. The MEERP has made a very strong case for the simultaneous participation of a number
of international agencies in big projects, as they together provide professional depth and multi-faceted
character to the project.  These organizations in accordance with their organizational priorities and
professional ethos bring together diverse professional elements in a, complimentary manner, which enhance
the social value and productivity within the project considerably, as demonstrated in the case of the
MEERP.
Implementation Constraints
The MEERP faced a long list of constraints in the course of implementation, which may not be
possible to enumerate here. However, some of the most serious constraints may be mentioned here. One
was the populist expectation, which the vast scope of the Program stirred up among a large number of
people. The people tended to look upon the MEERP as an inexhaustible source of assistance. The demand
for inclusion of more and more beneficiaries was persistent. It was a very difficult situation for the project
authorities to screen a massive pile of applications, and include deserving families in the list of
beneficiaries. The pressure came from different sources, and it became part of the working environment of
the MEERP.
The next most important constraint came from the legal activism. A lot of people approached
courts for getting included in the list of beneficiaries. A large number of cases, which the project
authorities had to attend to on a continuous basis, were very distracting. The Supreme Court could
appreciate this difficulty of project authorities, and its stay on all the legal proceedings in the lower courts
brought a great relief to the project authorities. Without the Supreme Court's intervention, the MEERP
would have been seriously jeopardized due to an unmanageable number of legal proceedings. Among other



53
constraints, one of the most challenging was achieving coordination among a large number of agencies/
departnents participating in the Program. Getting progress reports and expenditure details from all the
departments required a continuous monitoring and persuasion. Another major constraint came from the
demand for regularization of the junior engineers who were recruited on a contract basis. These junior
engineers resorted to strikes, which slowed down the progress of work in the R, R & S component.
Conclusion
Despite these constraints, the MEERP achieved its objectives. It has been a remarkable project, in
terms of striking a sensitive balance between the human aspects of post-disaster rehabilitation and the
practical requirements of a construction Program. The administrators and engineers worked with the
people traumatized by a great disaster, and the project mirrored their will and aspirations. The project's
accomplishments helped the people put their life back on course. The entire experience of involvement of a
vast section of people was cathartic; it put the tragedy in shade. The entire Program was in the best
traditions of human endeavor. The MEERP symbolizes the synergy that the agencies and organizations
and professional built across different professional environment. Above all, the MEERP signifies the
triumph of human spirit that survived the tragedy of the Latur earthquake.



54
Appendix B-2
EVALUATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA DEPARTMENT
OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON
WORLD BANK ASSISTED PROJECT ON
'SEISMOLOGICAL INSTRUMENTATION UPGRADATION
AND RELATED GEOPHYSICAL STUDIES IN INDIAN PENINSULAR
SHIELD'
CREDIT. 2594
1.  Introduction
Following the devastating earthquake of 30th September, 1993 which occurred in Latur
district of Maharashtra, an area hitherto considered as stable shield (reference Seismic Zoning
Map of India, IS: 1893-1984, Bureau of Indian Standards), the Government of India took several
initiatives, short and long term, aimed at improving the then available understanding of the
geological and geophysical set-up of the area. This would lead to better assessment of earthquake
hazard and enable adoption of proper scientific mitigation measures. Improvements in the
earthquake monitoring & data dissemination capabilities, mapping of crystal strain and delineation
of basement topography were identified as priority items, on the basis of inputs provided by the
Indian scientific community and the reports of B. K. Ro Committee (November, 1993) and the
-JNDP assisted team that visited the earthquake affected areas during January-February, 1994.
Accordingly, the Department of Science and Technology, Government of Lydia, submitted a
proposal to the World Bank for upgrading earthquake monitoring and research capabilities in the
shield region. The proposal was included as a component of the Maharashtra Emergency
Earthquake Rehabilitation Project approved in March 1994.
The Implementation Completion Report details the progress made during the tenure of the
project, September, 1994- 31st December 1998.
2.   Project Goal
The project was aimed at improving the existing scientific knowledge about the earthquake
processes and mechanisms operating in the peninsular shield and bringing up to world standards
the level of earthquake monitoring and research in the country. Ultimately, it would help in
mitigating the earthquake hazard in the region, to the benefit of the large resident population.



55
3.   Project Objectives
*  To improve the detection and locational capability of the seismic network by lowering the
threshold close to magnitude 3 earthquakes in the peninsular shield region.
*  To collect near- source seismic acceleration data for determination of near-source
characteristics and attenuation laws for designing cost-effective earthquake resistant structures
in a few critical seismogenic areas.
*  To set up a modern database for archival, easy handling and dissemination of data to
interested users.
* To psovide better communication links for quicker data transmission needed for near real-time
data compilation, processing and analysis.
*  To develop a sound interface between seismic data collection and earthquake engineering
practices for disaster mitigation.
*  Conduct integrated geophysical and geological studies for understanding subsurface features
in selected seismogenic areas.
*  To evolve and implement a programme of manpower development compatible with
requirements of new instrumentation.
4.   Financial Allocation
The financial approval for the project was accorded in September 1994 with an allocation of Rs.
39 crores, comprising of US$7.5 million (Rs. 25 crores at the then prevailing exchange rate) as
IDA loan and Rs 14 crores as GOI component. The IDA loan was principally earmarked for
purchase of equipment, hardware and software, for upgrading the seismic network and the
associated geophysical research and field investigation capabilities. The operational and recurring
expenses were borne by GOI through the allocated budget.
5.   Project Components *
The details of the Project activities were worked out in consultation with the International
Advisory Committee (IAC) during the first meeting held at DST, New Delhi from 13-16
December 1994. During the review of progress in the second meeting of IAC held at NGRI,
Hyderabad, from 6-7 September 1995, the activity list was finalised, as given below. Figure 1
gives the configuration of the upgraded network.
* Jpgradation of 10 existing seismological observatories of national network of IMD to GSN
standards for monitoring regional earthquakes and tele-seisms.



56
* Setting up of 20 digital seismological observatories (10 new and 10 existing ones, upgraded)
with three component broad band sensors.
* Setting up of 3 telemetered seismic clusters, one each in Koyna-Wama, Khandwa and Latur
areas.
* 20 portable seismographs for rapid deployment following significant earthquakes
* 50 free-field accelerographs for site response studies
* 5 small (10 instruments each) strong motion arrays for structural response studies.
* Creation of telecommunication facilities for data transfer.
* Establishing a computerised database at IMD and strengthening of computer facilities at
NGRI.
- Crustal deformation measurements by GPS studies and repeat levelling.
- Magnetotelluric and other collateral geophysical studies.
*Four broad band observatory equipments, two strong motion accelerographs and six portable
seismographs were additionally procllred tltilising the 15% variation clause as per the World
Bank norms.
6. Participating Institutions
The project was executed in a consortium mode by involving several research, academic
and service organisations. The India Meteorological Department, Indian Institute of
Geomagnetism, National Geophysical research Institute, Survey of India, Geological Survey of
India and Roorkee University have made notable contributions in the execution of the Project
activities. CESS, Trivandrum, Pune University, IIT, Bombay, IIT Kanpur and Osmania
University have taken up important research studies. A complete list of participating institutions,
activity- wise has been provided under para. 8.
7.   Management and Monitoring Mechanism
A multi-tier management structure was set up to oversee the implementation of the
Project. The National steering Committee (NSC) under the chairmanship of Secretary, DST
constituted the apex level. NSC evolved the policy guidelines for execution of the Project and
monitored the progress. A seven-member International Advisory Committee (IAC) was set-up to
provide the scientific and technical back-up. An Executive Committee under the Chairmanship of
Director, NGRI, defined the details of the project activities and the implementation mechanism.
The Earth System Science Division of the Department of Science and Technology did the overall



57
co-ordination. The composition and Terms of Reference of the three Committees are given at
Annexure-1
8.   Implementation Details:
The Project was implemented in consortium mode with the participation of several
agencies. The responsibilities and tasks were distributed as follows:
ITEM                                                  ORGANIZATION
GSN equipments/
Procurement                               Indian Institute of Geomagnetism
Installation/maintenance                  India Meteorological Department
Broad band digital observatories
Procurement                               Indian Institute of Geomagnetism
Installation/maintenance                10 by IMD at existing observatories
10 new by identified institutions
Portable seismographs
Procurement                             National Geophysical Research Inst.
Deployment/operation                           10 NGRI, 13 IMD, 3 MERI
GPS Units
Procurement                                           Survey of India/ IIG
Field deployment                          SOVIIG/research Institutions on a
campaign mode
Strong Motion equipments
For structural response studies
Procurement                            Dept. Earthquake Engineering, UOR
Installation/operation                                       DEQ, UOR
50 free- field accelerographs*
Procurement                               India Meteorological Department
Installation/operation                                             IMD
Equipment for National
Seismological Data Centre at IMD
And computing Facilities at NGRI
Procurement                             National Geophysical Research Inst.
Installation                                             IMD and NGRI
Controlled Source Magneto
-Telluric Unit
Procurement                                           Osmania University
Field deployment and operation                        Osmania University



58
9. 3 Telemetered clusters*
Procurement                             National Geophysical Research Inst.
Installation/deployment                                   NGRI,GSI,IMD
*not completed
9.   Research Initiatives
(i)       In addition to upgrading the seismological network, as detailed above, DST took the
initiative of evolving a number of research projects targeted at geophysical and geological
mapping of the sub-surface structure and elucidating the paleo-seismic history of the region. A
number of publications have resulted from these efforts.
10. Training of Man Power
A concerted effort was made to establish a core group of personnel capable of operating
and maintaining the new equipments. Scientists from participating institutions were sent abroad
for short-term training on these aspects. Selected scientists were also trained in the current
methods of data analysis and interpretation. A total of 18 scientists availed of the opportunity of
training. abroad. The University of Mexico and the University of Bergen were particularly co-
operative in organising training courses for Indian scientists. The University of Bergen also lent
the services of Mr. L Ottemoller for setting up the SEISEN software at IMD, New Delhi. These
efforts were supplemented by conducting training courses within the country, as per the list
below.
1.   Training course on 'Digital seismic instrumentation and related processing software',
National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad, 12th, May to 9,' June 1995.
2.   Training course on 'Strong motion instrumentation' Department of Continuing Education,
University of Roorkee, Roorkee, 12-24, Feb, 1996.
3.   Sort-term course on 'Active faults using geomorphology' Indian Institute of Technology,
Bombay, Mumbai, 6-1 0 May 1996.
4.   Short Course on' Active tectonics and paleoseismology', J.N. Centre, Bangalore,
14-19 September, 94
5.   Training course on 'Seismic monitoring and data analysis' National Geophysical Research
Institute, Hyderabad, 15-30 Nov. 98.
6.   Training course on 'GPS data acquisition and processing' Wadia Institute of Himalaya
Geology, Dehradun, 5-15 Jan 1999.
11.  Important National/International Conferences



59
1.    Workshop on 'Shield Seismicity', 2-5 Sep, 1995, National Geophysical Research Institute,
Hyderabad.
2.    Chapman Conference on' Stable Continental Regions', 25-29 Jan 1998, National
Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad.
3.    Conference on 'Disaster Management', 6-19 Feb 1998, Tezpur University, Tezpur.
4.    Conference on 'Earthquake Engineering', 17-19 December 1998, DEQ, University of
Roorkee, Roorkee.
5.    International Symposium on' Earthquake Hazard Assessment and Earth Interior Related
Topics', 1-3 Dec 1998, National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad.
12. Research Publications
A representative list of relevant papers published during the course of the World Bank
assisted project is given below at Annexure 3.
13. Performance of the Borrower
The Department of Science and Technology successfully formed a team of institutions,
which worked in a cohesive manner to achieve the objectives of the Project. The norms, as
specified by the World Bank, were strictly followed in all the procurements. Periodic Progress
Reports were submitted to the Bank. Assistance from the members of IAC, as required, was
readily forthcoming.
14. Performance of the Bank
The World Bank provided ready co-operation in the activities of the Project. The advice
rendered on various aspects of the procurement was timely and helpful. However, in some cases,
the procurement norms were applied a little too rigidly, especially in the case of telemetered
clusters, leading ultimately to a stage where this item had to be dropped from the procurement
list. Reposing greater confidence in the Borrower and the ultimate user of the equipment would
have led to smoother and more efficient functioning of the Project.



60
15. List of procurement planned under the project with estimated expenditure
Equipment                         Estimated expenditure
1. 10 GSN equipment                               US$ 1206871
2. 24 Broad Band Systems                          US$ 760528
3. 26 portable seismographs                       US$ 692322
4. 12 GPS Units                                   US$ 296709.67
12 Laptop computers                             Rs. 19,54,000/-
5. 10 GPS Units                                   US$190285
6. Strong motion equipment                        S.F.488200
7. 50 free field accelerographs                   Rs. 2.6 crores
8. Equipment for National Seismological
Data Centre and computing facility              US$227416 &
Rs. 71,57,689/
9. Controlled Source Magneto
Telluric Unit                                   US$276512
10. 3 telemetered clusters                        Rs. 6.10 crores
16. Procurement carried out with details of supplier and cost
Equipment               Supplier                   Cost
1. 10 GSN equipments          M/s Quanterra, USA       US$ 1206871
2. 24 Broad Band Systems      Refraction Technology US$ 760528
USA
3. 26 portable seismographs   M/s Refraction Technology  US$ 692322
USA
4. 12 GPS Units               M/s Leica AG, Switzerland  US$ 296709.67
12 Laptop computers         M/s Birla International  Rs. 19,54,000/-
New Delhi
5. 10 GPS Units                    M/s Trimble International   US$190285
England
6. Strong Motion equipments    SIG-SA, Switzerland     S.F.488200
7. Equipment for National     MIs Wiproinfotech        US$227416 &
Seismological Data Centre Secunderbad               Rs.71,57,689/-
at IMD & computing facility
at NGRI
8. Controlled Source Magneto M/s EMI, USA
-Telluric Unit                                       US$276512



61
17. Procurement not completed
* 50 accelerographs for free-field studies.
*   This procurement was entrusted to India Meteorological Department, New Delhi.
Procurement could not be done due to local procedural delays.
* 3 Telemetered Clusters
The National Geophysical Research Institute floated the tender twice. The World Bank,
however, did not accept the recommendations of TEC. Ultimately, this item had to be dropped
from procurement.
18. Total Disbursement Claimed And Received
The reimbursement claims were submitted to the office of the Controller of Aid Accounts and
Audit, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India. The details are given below:-
Equipment                   Contract      Amount           Status
Amount       claimed
10 GSN equipments:          US$ 1206871  US$1195043.96   Cleared by DAE
24 Broad Band Systems:      US$ 760528   US$530457.20    80% for 20 units and 20%
for 4 units cleared by DAE.
Remaining balance to be
claimed.
26 portable seismographs:   US$ 692322   US$681767.22    Cleared by DEA
12 GPS Units:               US$ 296709.67US$296709.67    Cleared by DEA
12 Laptop computers         Rs. 19,54,000/- Rs. 19,54,000/-   Cleared by DEA
10 GPS Units:               US$190285   US$171256.5       Cleared by DEA(90%)
10% to be claimed.
Strong Motion equipments:   S.F.488200    SF5234.88.00    Cleared by DEA
20% for 2 addnl.
Units to be claimed.
Equipment for National
Seismological Data Centre at IMD
and computing facility at NGRI US$227416 & .US$ 151060.80    Cleared by DEA
Rs. 71,57,698/-   20% of FE component
& 100% INR part to
be claimed.
Procurement of controlled
Source Magneto Telluric     US$276512   US$271651.26    80% cleared by DEA
Unit                                                       20% clearance
awaited.



62
19. Lessons Learned
Execution of the Project has been a rewarding experience for all the associated agencies.
The new equipments installed in the field are functional. Jabalpur earthquake of May 1997 was
recorded by all the ten GSN observatories, producing high quality broad band data sets. The field
data is now automatically down loaded to the National Seismological Data Centre at IMD
Headquarters, improving considerably the response time.
The challenge of implementing a difficult project within a well-defined time frame generated a
healthy team spirit amongst the organizations and led to the success of the operations. The
project has laid the foundation of a strong and scientifically sound national Program on the studies
of Stable Continental Earthquakes.
20.  Project Sustainability
As per the commitments given at the time of formulation of the project, the Government
of India has taken over the activities from 1.1.99. The various activities will be sustained and
strengthened through GOI support.



63
Annexure
Institute                   Number of
Locations                    Observatories
National Geophysical Research    3                        Bhadrachalam(AP)
Institute                                         Mahabaleswar(Maharashtra)
Cuddapah(AP)
Indian Institute of              2                              Rewa (MP)
Geomagnetism                                          Kolhapur(Maharashtra)
Geological Survey of India       I                            Jabalpur(MP)
Osmania University               I                            Bhiknoor(AP)
National Institute of            I                         Kolar(Karnataka)
Rock Mectanics
Centre for Earth Science         I                            Peechi(Kerala)
Studies
Gujarat Engineering and          I                          Dharoi(Gujarat)
Research Institute



64
Annexure
Books/Memoirs
Gupta, H. K., 1994, "Latur Earthquake" 35, pp. 149, edited by H. K. Gupta; published by Geological Society of India.
Research papers
Baumbach, M., H. Grosser, H.G. Schmidt, A. Paulat, A. Rietbrock, C.V. Ramakrishna Rao, P. Solomon Raju, D.
Sarkar, and I. Mohan, Study of foreshocks and aftershocks of the Intraplate Latur earthquake of September 30, 1993,
India, in Latur Earth-Quake, edited by H.K. Gupta, Mein. Geol. Soc. india, 33, 33-63, 1994.
Chetty, T.R.K., and M.N. Rao, Latur earthquake of September 30, 1993; Surface deformation and linearnent pattern,
in Latur Earthquake, edited by H.K. Gupta,Mem. Geol. Soc. India, 35, 65- 73, 1994.
Chadha, R.K., H.K. Gupta, H.J.Kumpel, P. Mandal, A.Nageswara Rao, Narendra Kumar, LRadhakrishna,
B.K.Rastogi, I.P.Raju, C.S.P. Sarma, C. Satyamurtrhy and H.V.S.Satyanarayana, Delineation of Active Faults,
Nucleation Process and Pore Pressure Measurements at Koyna (India), PAGEOPH, 150 (3/4), 551-
562, 1997.
Gupta, H.K., Earthquakes exceeding magnitude 5 occur again in the Koyna region (notes). J. Geol. Soc. India 42,
413-415, 1993.
Gupta, H.K., I. Mohan, B.K. Rastogi, M.N. Rao, C.V.Rao, A quick look at the Latur earthquake of 30 September
1993, Current Science, 65(7), 517-520, 1993.
Gupta, H.K., B.K. Rastogi, R.K.Chadha, P. Mandal and C.S.P. Sarma, Enihanced reservoir induced earthquakes in
Koyna region, India, during 1993-95. Joul. Seismology, 1(1), 47-53, 1997.
Gupta, H.K., The deadly Latur earthquake, Science, 262, 1666- 1667, 1993.
Gupta, H.K., 1994a. Introduction to the volume "Latur Earthquake", Mem. Geol. Soc. India, 35, v-xii. Gupta, H.K.,
1994b. Stable continental region earthquakes. J. Geol. Soc. India, 43, 618-619.
Gupta, H.K., B.K. Rastogi, L Mohani, C.V. Ramakrishna Rao, D.C. Mishra, G.V. Rao, R.U.M. Rao, M.N. Rao and
T.R.K. Chetty, Investigations of Latur earthquake of September 30, 1993. GSI Spl.Publ., No.27, 1740, 1995.
Gupta, Harsh K., B.K.Rastogi, C.V.R.K.Rao, I. Mohan, S.V.S Sarma and R.U.M. Rao, An investigation of Latur
Earthquake of September 29, 1993 in South India, Tectonophys.287, 299-318, 1998.
Gupta,F, K. R.K. Chadha, M.N. Rao, B.L. Narayana, P. Mandal, M. Ravi Kumar and Narendra Kumar, The Jabalpur
earthquake of 22 May, 1997 in the stable continental region of Peninsular India, Jou. Geol. Soc. Ind., v. 50, 85-91,
1997.
Gupta, H.K. and Dwivedy, K.K., Drilling at Latur Earthquake Region exposes a Peninsular Gneiss basement - a short
communication, J.Geol. Soc. India, 47, 129-131, 1994.
Indra Mohan and M.N. Rao, A field study of Latur (India) earthquake of 30th September, 1993. Mem. Geol. Soc.
India, 35, 7-32, 1994.
Jain, S.K., C.V.R: Murty, N. Chandak, L. Seeber, and N.K. Jaim, The September 29, 1993, M6.4 Killari,
Maharashtra, earthquake in central India, EERI Ne%vsl., Vol. 28, 8 pp., 1994.
Mandal, P., Manglik, A. and Singh, R.N., Three-dimensional intra-plate stresses distributions associated with
topography and crustal density inhomogeneities beneath the Killari, India, region, Jou. Geophys. Res., 102, 11,719-
11,729, 1997.
Mandal, P., and R.N. Singh, Three- dimlensional intraplate stress distributions associated with topography and crustal
density inhomogeneities beneath the Deccan Volcanic Province, Proc. Ind. Acad. Sci., Earth Planet. Sci., 105, 143-
155, 1996.



65
Mishra, D.C., S.B. Gupta, and M.B.S. Vyaghreswara Rao, Space and time of Gravity field in earthquake affected
areas of Maharashtra, India, Memoir Geol. Soc. India, and 35, 119-126, 1994.
Prantik Mandal and B.K. Rastogi, A frequency-dependent relation of coda Qc for Koyna-Warna Region, India,
PAGEOPH, 153, 163-177, 1998.
Prantik Mandal and B.K. Rastogi, Source: Parameters of Koyna Earthquakes, India, Bull. Seis. Soc. Am., 88(3), 833-
842, 1998
Rajendran, C.P. and K. Rajendran. 1999. Geological investigations at Killari and Ter, central India and implications
for palaeoseismicity in the shield region, In Press, Tectonophysics, special issue on Paleoseismology
Rajendran, K and C.P.Rajendran 1999. Seismogenesis in the stable continental interiors: An appraisal based on two
examples from India, In Press, Tectonophysics, special issue on Tectonics of the continental interiors.
Rajendran, C.P., and K. Rajendran 1999. The 1993 Killari (Latur) earthquake: a paleoseismological perspective,
submitted for inclusion in the special publication by the DST.
Rajendran, K. 1999. Triggered seismicity at Koyna: An assessment based on relocated earthquakes during 1983-
1993, submitted for inclusion in the special publication by the DST.
Rajendran, C. P. and Rajendran, K., ]996. Commeints on the "The 1993 Killari earthquake in central India: A new
fault in the Mesozoic basalt flows?" by Seeber et al. JGR-Solid Earth.Jour. Geophys. Res., vol. 102, NO.Bll, pp.
24,561-24,564.
Rajendran, C.P. 1997. Defonnational features in the river bluffs at Ter, Osmmanabad
District, Maharashtra: Evidence for an ancient earthquake. Curr: Sci., 82:750-755.
Rajendran, C. P., Rajendran, K. and John, B., 1996. The 1993 Killari(Latur) earthquake: An example of fault
reactivation in the Precambrian crust. Geology, v. 24(7), p.651-654.
Rajendran,C. P., Rajendran, K., Unnikrishnan, K. R. and John, B., 1996. Palaeoseismic indicators in the rupture zone
of the 1993 Killari (Latur) earthquake. Curreni Science, vol. 70 (50), p.385-390.
Rajendran, K. and Rajendran, C.P. 1998, Characteristics of 1997 Jabalpur earthquake and their bearing on its
mechanism, Current Science, Indian Acadeany of Science, vol. 24 (2), 168-174.1998.
Rajendran, C. P. and Rajendran, K., 1995. Application of paleoseismological methods in seismic Hazard evaluation:
An overview based on some examples of intraplate seismicity. Proc. Group Discussion on Geological Hazards in the
Himalayan Region: Assessment and Mitigation, Himalayan Geology, vol. 16.
Rao, C.V.R., and P.S. Raju, Study of the aftershock activity and source parameters of the Latur earthquake of
September 30, 1993, J. Geol. Soc. India, 47, 243-250, 1996.
Rao, G.V., G.K. Reddy, R.U.M. Rao, and K. Gopalan, Extraordinary Helium anomaly over surface rupture of
September 1993 Killari earthquake, India, Curr. Sci., 66, 933-936, 1994.
Rastogi, B.K., P.Mandal and N.Kumar, Seismicity Around Dhamni Dam, Maharashtra, India, PAGEOPH, 150 (3/4),
493-509, 1997.
Rastogi, B.K., Chadha, R.K., Sanna, C.S.P., Mandal, P., Satyanarayana, H.V.S., Raju, I.P., Narendra Kumar,
Satyamurthy,C. and A. Nageswara Rao, Seismicity at Warna Reservoir (Near Koyna) through 1995, Bull. Seism.
Soc.Arn., 87, 1484-1494, 1997.
Rastogi, B.K., Latur earthquake not triggered. Mem. Geol. Soc. Ind.,No.35, 131-138, 1994.
Rastogi, B.K. And M.N. Rao (1994). After effects of Latur Earthquake: Smoke/Gas Emanations and Subterranean
Sounds/ Microearthquakes, Mem.Geol.Soc.Ind., No.35, 139-149.



66
Sarma, S.V.S., G. Virupakshi, T. Harinarayana, D.N. Murthy, S. Prabhakar, E, Rao, K. Veeraswamny, M. Rao,
M.V.C. Sarma, and K.R.B. Gupta, A wide bands magnetotelluric study of the Latur earthquake region, Maharashtra,
India, Mem. Geol. Soc. India, 35, 101-118, 1994.
Srinivasan,R., S.H. Jaffri, G.V. Rao and G.K. Reddy, Phreatomagmatic eruptive center from the Deccan trap
province, Jabalpur, central India, Current Science, 74(9), 787-790, 1998.
Sundar, A., S. Roy, G.V. Rao, and R.U.M. Rao, Ground temperature measurements at some sites of smoke emanation
and borehole temperature measurement for evaluation of heatflow, Mem. Geol. Soc. India, 35, 75-82, 1994.
Bhattacharya,S.N., Ghose,A.K., Suresh,G., Baidya,P.R., Saxena,R.C.,Source Parameters of Jabalpur Earthquake of
22nd May 1997, Current Science,V73, pp855-863.
Bhattacharya,S.N., Ghose,A.K., Suresh,G., Baidya,P.R., Saxena,R.C.,Analysis of Broadband seismograms for
evaluation of Source Parameters of Jabalpur earthquake of May 22, 1997, Proc. of workshop on Earthquake Disaster
Preparedness, Oct. 13-14, 1997, Roorkee University.
IMD Report (1997): Jabalpur earthquake of May 22, 1997 and its aftershocks (A consolidated document).
Bhattacharya,S.N., (1998), Source characteristics and focal mechanism solutions of some recent Koyna-Wamna
(Maharashtra,lndia) earthquakes through inversion of Broadband wavefonm record. Paper presented at the
Symposium on 'Earthquakes through inversion of Broadband wavefonn record. Paper presented at the Symposium on
Earthquake hazard assesment and earth's interor related topics'. NGRI, Hyderabad, Dec 1-3, 1998
Saxena,R.C., Suresh,G., Ghose,A.K., - DST Newsletter,Source parameters of Jabalpur earthquake of 22nd May 1997
and its aftershocks, DST Newsletter, v7, Aug1997.
Singh,S.K, Ordaz,M., Dattatrayam,R.S., and Gupta,H.K., (1998): A spectral analysis of the May 21, 1997
Jabalpur,India Earthquake (Mw=5.8),and estimation of Ground motions from future earthquakes in the Indian shield
region. Paper presented at the Symposium on 'Earthquake hazard assesment and earth's interor related topicse. NGRI,
Hyderabad, Dec 1-3, 1998
Dattatrayam,R.S, Singh,S.K, Shapiro,N., Pachkoj., Mandal,P., Bhattacharya,S.N., Midha,R.K., (1998), Crustal and
upper mantle structure of Peninsular India and source parameters of the May 21, 1997, Jabalpur earthquake
(Mw=5.8): Results from a new regional broadband network. Paper presented at the Symposium on 'Earthquake
hazard assesment and earth's interor related topics'. NGRI, Hyderabad, Dec 1-3, 1998
N.Purnachandra Rao., Masahiro Kosuga., Tameshige Tsujuda.,S.C.Bhatia.,and G.Suresh (1998), Moment tensor
inversion of Body and Surface Waves using regional Broadband data of the 21 May 1997 Jabalpur earthquake. Paper
presented at the Symposium on 'Earthquake hazard assesment and earth's interor related topics'. NGRI, Hyderabad,
Dec 1-3, 1998
Verma,R.K., Suresh,G., Shukla,A.K., and Ghose,A.K., (1998),Comparative study of source parameters for Jabalpur
earthquake from P and S waves spectra using digital data of IMD observatories - presented at Proc.Eleventh Symp.
On Earthquake Engineering Dec 17-19, 1998, Roorkee University.



MAP SECTION



-



BRO 25479RI
73'                                               15'                       76-                      77-                      78-                      19,
M    A  D  H  Y  A            P  R  A  D  E  S  H                                                                                             A.- 0
T. JbbI,-                                 EPICENTRAL REGION                                           J
-q
G UJARAT
f
D H U L E
Jf-                -1    AMRAVAT(                                NIG  U R
JALGAON'
21                                                                                                                                                                                             -BAam-
R1111A
w.,dh
BULDHANA
T,. V.1-d                                                                        -B.1dh...
A1011
N A 6 I
YAVAT MAL
r                                                                               CHANDRAPUR
2-
JA
-20,                                                                ALIRANO                                                                                                                        ARII(ROU
A...           LN
4H A N E
"Tt f-,,
J
WNA OAk                                                                                                                                                                   DEATHS AS %                                       J-1
PF POPULAIION:
A
FE                                                                                                                                         0   1           MSKTENSITY.
AYkl                                                                                                                                                       A  N  D H R A                                                          2
P R A  D E S H                                                          5
U N 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vil
0   VI
20
RATqAI)H I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
r
QL-k-
RAJASTHAN      -9j
OtTA9QPRAEFSH
PAKISTAN
is-
r,,-7  -$MANkA#AD   E-1
r Aj.R .4
S,0 A P VR-                                                                                                                                                      GTJJAkAT
Hyd-6.d
I N D I A
'J,                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /P
RATNA RI                                                                                                                           MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUAKE
RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
-17-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ORISSA
PROJECT DISTRICTS:                        17
WORST AFFECTED DISTRICTS                                     V-Ly I      'MJARASHTRA
j
K A  R N  A T A  K A                                                                             AFFECTEE) DISTRICTS
KOLHAPUR                'K' I                                                                                                                                                                     r,
H d    d
DISTRICT CAPITALS
0AND 'A'
5TATE CAPITAL
PRADEpt,",
INDH  URG                                                                50           100          150         200
0                                                                                      NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
KILOMETERS                                                        RIVERS                                                                (OA,,
[-  4ow                  'KAATAKtA                          1N ',A N
- - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Th; ..p   F,.d-d byh Mp 0-9. U t f Th W.,)d 8-k                                                                                              UM-Low             0,                                   OCEAN
Th. 6-d-, c.l., d---,-  .,d-y.lh, W.-ti- A.-                                        STATE BOUNDARIES
fhi, .p d. -I iply, - t6 pl f Th W-Id B-k G-P, -y
d9-1- Ih.kg.1v.W  f.,,y -i-y,.,                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES JINSET)                     fltotl
-cc- d -h                                                                                                                                  w'"tly Q,,4,                                                  90, 3m
5-- mef'- St                                TA M I L         KROAAVEkS
71-                       7                                                                                                                                   7                                                                                  ORIFA,           N
7,5'                      7,6                        77-                        18                      1'                                                    JS:18934904 P        O)                        ADU
JUNE 1999



