                                     Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 32515




                PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                        INDIA

        MAHARASHTRAEMERGENCYEARTHQUAKEREHABILITATION
                                      PROJECT

                                 (CREDIT 2594-IN)




                                    April21,2005




Sector, Thematic, and GlobalEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
 Currency Unit = Currency Unit IndianRupee(Rs.)

Appraisalyear (1994)              US$l.OO =Rs. 31.00
InterveningYears                  US$1.OO =Rs. 34.70
CompletionYear (1998)             US$l.OO =Rs.41.22



Abbreviations and Acronyms

.ADB            Asian Development Bank
CIG             Central ImplementationGroup
DE              DeputyEngineer
DFID            Department for International Development
DST             Department o f Science and Technology
GO1             Government o f India
GOM             Government o fMaharashtra
ICR             ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA             International Development Association
IMD             IndiaMeteorological Department
NGO            NonGovernmental Organization
OED             Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
P M U          Project Management Unit
R&S            Repair and Strengthening
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SPARC           Society for Promotiono f Area Resources Centers
TISS           Tata Institute o f Social Sciences
UNCHS          UnitedNations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP           UnitedNationsDevelopment Program
VLC            Village Level Committee

FiscalYear

Government:               April 1- March31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation       : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment     : Mr.R.Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation     : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr.RonaldParker

                                                               i


      OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof
lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof the Bank's lending
operations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to thosethat are innovative,large,or complex;
those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations; thosefor which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank
managementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate importantlessons.The projects,topics,
and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowingcountry for
onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to validate and augment the
information provided in the ICR,as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporategoals
(expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      Institutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate,which derivesfrom these institutional
arrangements. institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangementsfor regular
operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure quality
of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                        111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................       v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................      v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                               vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 The Earthquakeand PlannedResponse
 .                                                                       ....................................................................    1

        IDA Involvement ......................................................................................................                   1
        Project Objectives (Stated and Implied) .................................................................. 2
        Project Components................................................................................................. 2
2 ImplementationExperience: Learningto ReduceDisasterVulnerability
 .                                                                                                                                    .............3
         Veriped Vulnerability Reduction in 47 Villages......................................................                                    3
        TheState Government Steadily Increased its Capacity to Manage Disasters.........3
        SuccessiveDisaster AssessmentsMissed the Mark .................................................                                          5
        Protests and Litigation.............................................................................................                     6
        A Clever Strategyfor Achieving a Safer Built Environment....................................                                             6
        Strong Borrower Ownership, Beneficiary Preferences, and Flexibility..................7
        TheRehabilitation of Damaged Housing Proved Unacceptable to Survivors ........8
3 Achievementof Objectives
 .                                               ..........................................................................................      9

        Objective 1:Assist with rehabilitation and reconstruction in the earthquake-
            affected areas filly achieved) ...........................................................................                           9
        Objective 2: Increase the earthquake resistance of buildings and
            infrastructure fully achieved) .........................................................................                           11
        Objective 3: Develop the ability of the Government of Maharashtra to
            respond more effectively to natural disasters fully achieved) ........................                                             11
4 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                           ...........................................................................................       12

        Most Project Problems WereNot Serious Shortcomings ......................................                                              13
        Ratings ...................................................................................................................            14
        Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................                   16


This reportwas preparedMr.RonaldParker andMs. Silke Heuser. consultant. who assessedthe projectin
September 2004.The report was editedbyMr.William Hurlbut. and Ms.HelenPhillipprovidedadrmnistrative

                                                      iv


Annex A Basic Data Sheet
        .                ..............................................................................................  21


Boxes

Box 1. Working Hard or Hardly Working: The Saga o f the Junior Engineers....................
Box 2. What Happened inKillari ........................................................................................   4
                                                                                                                          7
Box 3. Comparisonwith the Reconstruction Process after the Gujarat Earthquake .........13

                                                      V



PrincipalRatings
                                  /CR*                      /CR Review*                       PPAR
Outcome                    Highly Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                   Likely                         Likely                        Likely
Institutional                  Substantial                   Substantial                    Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
Borrower                      Satisfactory                   Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                         Division Chief/
Project                       Task Manager/Leader        Sector Director              Country Director
 Appraisal                    Richard G. Scutfield        Robert N. Panfil            Heinz Vergin
 Comoletion                   Jelena Pantelic            Frannie Humplick             Edwin R. Lim


                                               vii


Preface

        The Maharashtra Emergency Earthquake RehabilitationProject (Credit 2594-IN) in
the amount o f SDR 177million (US$246 million equivalent) was approved on March 31,
1994, andmade effective on June 27, 1994. SDR 21.0 million (about US$30.24 equivalent)
o fprojectedsavings from the credit was canceled on December 16, 1996. The British
government provided cofinancinginthe amount o fUKE10 million. An additional UKE5
millionwas made available inparallelthrough the former British OverseasDevelopment
Administration, now Department for InternationalDevelopment (DFID) to assist project
implementation. The Asian DevelopmentBank (ADB)and the UnitedNations Development
Program (UNDP) contributed parallel assistance o fUS$600,000 eachto support project
implementation. The credit closed on December 31, 1998, after two extensions totaling one
and ahalfyears. The credit was fully disbursed, andthe final disbursemento fUS$78,921
was made on March 3, 1999.

        The report i s baseduponreviews o f the ImplementationCompletionReport, the
MemorandumandRecommendation o f the President, legaldocuments, project files, and
discussions with Bank staffinvolvedwith the project. OED fielded a two-person missionto
IndiainSeptember 2004 to review the project results.

        The missionvisitedcentral government departments inDelhiandproject offices in
Mumbai but spent most of its time inthe field, visitingproject sites, and speaking with
project officials and stakeholders. The mission appreciates the courtesies and attention given
by interlocutors andis particularlyappreciative ofthe efforts made byKrishna S. Vatsa,
Secretary, Reliefand Rehabilitation, Revenue and Forest Department; Abhay Shah, District
Project Officer, UNDP; andKuljitS. Sidhu. It also gratefully acknowledges the logistical
support provided by the Government o fMaharashtra.

       The PPARwas undertakento support OED's major evaluation ofBankassistancein
the context ofnatural disasters. Ths assessment o f one project i s unusual inthat it occasionally
comparesthe Maharashtraexperience with what hashappenedduringthe Gujarat Emergency
Earthquake Reconstruction project (approved May 2002). The PPARmissionprovided an
opportunity to visit Bank financed disaster-related work inGujarat andAndhra Pradeshandto
determine what lessonsthe Bankhadlearned over the years. Following standard procedures,
copies o fthe draft PPARwill be sent to relevant government officials and agencies
concemed for their review and comments. Any comment received will be attached as an
annex to this report.


                                                   ix


Summary
        A series o flarge earthquakes struck the state ofMaharashtra on September 30, 1993. The
devastating quakes severely affected 67 villages, killing about 8,000 people and injuringabout
 16,000. Considerable damage to public buildingsand infrastructure spread over 13 districts. IDA,
incollaborationwithADB, DFID,andUNDP, supported a comprehensive rehabilitationprogram
covering all aspects o fthe damage inaffected villages. The project had three overarching
objectives: (i) assist with rehabilitation and reconstruction inthe earthquake-affected areas
               to
(restoration o f assets andbasic services), (ii)to increase the earthquake resistance o fbuildings
and infrastructure through the development o f improved standards for designand construction,
and (iii) to develop the ability o fthe Government o fMaharashtra (GOM) to respond more
effectively to natural disasters, including earthquakes.

        The GOM staff incharge of the project, aware that many countries have faced civil
unrest inthe aftermath o f poorly handled reconstruction activities, decided that the
reconstruction effort would provide an opportunity to redress housing inequities and reduce
social tensions. Renters and those incapable o fproviding themselves with a home (such as
widows and the elderly) were to be granted the ownership of a first rate dwelling. Even more
radical was the decision to provide nomads, scheduledtribes, and other marginalized groups
withhousing comparable to what was going to be provided to the middle class.

        Early efforts to beginreconstruction were complicatedby the seriously flawed criteria
usedto quantify the damage and identifybeneficiaries. Although assessmentwas done in
accordance with criteria developed bythe InternationalAssociation o f Earthquake Engineering,
the criteriawere difficult to apply to most o fthe earthquake-damaged buildingswhich were made
(usingtraditional designs) ofmudandloose stone. Itwas nearlyimpossibleto distinguish
between slight nonstructural damage and moderate structural damage. Inthe areas where the
damage levels were lower, it was also difficult to distinguishbetween earthquake damage, poor
quality construction, and a prolonged lack o fmaintenance. The complexity o f applying the
categorization scheme stimulated controversy and ledto numerous legal challenges. Project staff
receivedabout 17,000 complaints demanding additional compensation o fvarying sorts.

        Thisproject demonstratesthe importance ofborrower ownership. Becausekeyofficials
inthe GOMwere convinced that the future o fthe stateo fMaharashtrawould beinfluencedto a
considerable degree bythe approach taken duringthe reconstruction and economic rehabilitation,
they were committedto a successful outcome, andresolved not to let the project fail. A series o f
modifications to the project approach were made for the purpose o f overcoming obstacles and
accommodating stakeholder preferences.

        Critical "lifeline" facilities were givenpriority. A new water supply systemwas provided
to the relocated villages. Since most families dependedupon agriculture, irrigation dams were
constructed and irrigation systems restored, and farm implementsand agricultural equipment
were providedto replace those that hadbeenlost or damaged. Government imported farm
animals (cattle, oxen, sheep, and goats) to Maharashtra for distribution. Financial assistancewas
extendedto artisans and smallbusinessesso that lost equipment,inventories, and implements
could be repurchased. Land was acquired to relocate 52 villages (106 percent o f appraisal
estimates), to build27,944 new houses (121 percent o ftarget were erected), and new urban
infrastructure was providedinthese villages. Inthe villages that were not relocated, the housing
repair component was rejected by beneficiaries, but about 200,000 additional houses were rebuilt.

                                                   x


         All public andprivate buildingsreconstructed or retrofittedpassedengineeringinspection
certifying their earthquake resistance. The notable success inthis areawas due to the
development o fimproved standards for design and construction that were simpleto understand,
information dissemination campaigns, training o f artisans, and enforcement.

         Overall the project outcome i s rated highly satisfactory. The project fully achieved all
three o f its highlyrelevant objectives without significant shortcomings, at a scale which taxed the
implementationcapacity to the utmost. The institutional development impact i s rated
substantial. The project management unit was transformed into apermanent disaster
management institution that will enhance humanwelfare over the long term. Statewide, skills
have beenupgraded, capable staffrecruited and retained, information systems established, and
hazard-related planning carried out. The result o fthe work begununder the Bank loan, and the
added stimulus o frepeated buffetingby disasters has beenthe creation o fpermanent public
institutionsto manage risks, monitor hazards, andpredict disasters. These have served as an
example to other Indian states and the national government.

         Sustainability i s rated likely. Hundredso f communities have hadthe disaster
vulnerability o fthe built environment (public andprivate) significantly reduced. At the time o f
the evaluation the infrastructure constructed had already resisted the forces o f another earthquake
suffering almost no damage, and it canbepredictedthat itwill continue to resist disaster risks
thus adding to the substantial benefitsdelivered.Project-builtpublic infrastructure is inuse.
Facilities are generally beingwell maintainedunder the budgets and oversight o f different
ministries. Technical and financial resilience i s high, as i s social support. Bank performance i s
rated satisfactory. The Bank responded quickly after the earthquake. Bank staff helped to design
a project that addressedthe problems causedbythe earthquake ina comprehensive way. The
government reports that the Bank supervision also supported the work quite effectively. The
borrower's performance i s rated highly satisfactory.

    Among the lessons suggestedbythe project experience are the following:

    Careful poverty targetingand sensitive project design can lead to major poverty reduction
    impacts even under difficult post-disaster circumstances.
    Relocationo f villages that consist mostly o f one andtwo story buildings duringpost-
    earthquake reconstruction i s usually a mistake inthe long-term.
0   Simplicity o f message i s essential to the adoption o f disaster-resistant technologies.
0   Grievance procedures need to be inplace from the outset.
0   Damage Assessments need criteria that are carefully tailored to each widely used
    construction type, and that lead to damage awards closely tied to the actual cost of what
   needs to be done.
0   Owner-driven construction was more effective inproviding culturally and
    environmentally appropriate housing given the limited range o f options contractors were
    able to provide for the same cost.


                                                                                  Ajay Chhibber
                                                                            Acting Director-General
                                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


1.       The Earthquake andPlannedResponse

 1.      A series of earthquakes o fabout 6.4 on the Richter scale struck the state of
Maharashtra on September 30, 1993. The devastating quakes severely affected 67 villages,
killingabout 8,000 people andinjuringabout 16,000. Itwas the largest seismic event ever
recorded intwo districts (Latur and Osmanabad). Considerable damage to public buildings
andinfrastructure spreadover awider area, covering 11additional districts. Traditional
unframedhousing, made o f unevenstones heldtogether with mudmortar and heavy
timbedmud roofs, provedto have very little earthquake resistance. Intotal, approximately
225,000 houses were destroyed or damaged, and more than 58,000 families were left
homeless.

2.       The disaster-affected regionwas socially backward andquite poor, but itwas located
nearMumbai, an area that hadbeenexperiencing significant economic growth, modernization,
andanelevated standardofliving. The disasterprovidedanopportunityto rebuildthe damaged
communities to higher standards:public andprivate structures couldbe made much safer and a
bitmore comfortable thanwhat hadexistedbefore. Yet itwouldnot be easy:just the numberof
housesthat neededrebuildingensuredthat any effort that addressedhousing would have to be
one o fthe largest operations of its type ever conducted anywhere.' Social, economic, and
physical reconstruction neededto go hand-in-hand,andno one instate govemment had ever
managed a construction operation at the scale that would berequired.'


IDA Involvement

3.       The InternationalDevelopment Association made its willingnessto assist known the
day after the earthquake. A Memorandum o fUnderstanding betweenthe Government o f
India and IDA was signed five days after the earthquake, and IDA fielded a reconnaissance
mission only five days later.

4.      An importantpart o fwhat IDAbrought to the table was the World Bank's
considerable experience with emergencies. Over the past two decades about 500 approved
projects have had at least one component dealing with disaster. Local officials involved with
the project commented that knowingthat IDAwould be involved inthe reconstructioneffort
very early onmade it significantly easier to design the project andthe activities to be
supported. IDA'Ssupport for the reconstruction effort also facilitated the participationo f
other international multilateral agencies, includingDFID,UNDP, and the ADB, and
numerous local organizations. However, the time lag betweenthe initial actions and active
World Bank involvement was criticizedby many informants. Most high-level govemment
staffinterviewedfelt that the Bank neededfield a presence during the immediatepost-
disaster period so that a continuedsharing o f experience could take place and the reasons for
the manyminor modifications to the original plancould be understoodbybothparties.



1. Source: OED NaturalDisasters and Emergency Reconstruction evaluation database.
2. Worldwide, only 4 of the 40 Bank loansicredits that had attempted housingreconstruction did so at the
100,000 unitlevel- and none ofthose hadbeen inIndia.

                                                   2


ProjectObjectives(Stated and Implied)

5.       The credit documents do note that IDA supported a comprehensive rehabilitation
program that dealt with all aspects o f the damage inall the affected villages. The
Memorandum o fthe President specifies three objectives for the project: (i)        to assist with
rehabilitation andreconstruction inthe earthquake-affected areas (restoration o f assets and
basic services), (ii)  to increase the earthquake resistance o fbuildings and infrastructure
through the development o f improved standards for design and construction, and (iii)         to
develop the ability o f the Govemment o fMaharashtra to respond more effectively to natural
disasters, including earthquakes.

6.       The earthquake came at a time when the local economy was booming and the GOM's
coffers were relatively full. This permitted a more ambitious response thanmight otherwise
have been the case. Also, Mumbai was increasingly attracting international investment, and
preserving an image o f stability was essential to regional economic development. The GOM
staff incharge o f the project, aware that many countries have faced civil unrest inthe
aftermath o f poorly handled reconstruction activities, decided that the reconstruction effort
would provide an opportunity to redress housing inequities and reduce social tensions.
Renters and those incapable o fproviding themselves with a home (such as widows andthe
elderly) were to be granted the ownership o f a first-class dwelling. Evenmore radical was the
decision to provide nomads, scheduled tribes, and other marginalized groups with housing
comparable to what was going to be provided to the middle class. The Government's social
objectives are not reflectedinthe Bank's documentation.


Project Components

7.       The project had components at the state andnational level. The state o fMaharashtra
was responsible for: (i)   reconstruction o f 49 new villages on greenfield relocation sites
including 23,000 new houses and associated infrastructure and civic amenities; (ii)        the
reconstruction on existing sites o f 30,000 houses that were destroyed or substantially damaged;
(iii) repairofabout180,000partiallydamagedhouses;(iv)constructionof500model
    the
houses to demonstrate construction with earthquake-resistant features; (v) a pilot retrofitting o f
5,000 undamaged butvulnerable houses to demonstrate strengthening techniques; (vi) the
repair, reconstruction, and strengthening o fpublic buildingsandinfrastructure (including
schools, health centers, social service facilities, roads, bridges, irrigation facilities, and
historical monuments; (vii) economic rehabilitation focused on the replacement o fbusiness
losses; (viii) social rehabilitation with a particular emphasis on the needs ofwomen and
children; and (ix) preparation o f a disaster management program for the state o fMaharashtra.

8.      At the national levelthe Government o f India(GOI) implemented a seismic
monitoring andresearch program through the Department o f Science and Technology (DST).

                                                  3


 2.       ImplementationExperience:Learningto ReduceDisaster
          Vulnerability

 Verified VulnerabilityReductionin47 Villages

 9.       Inorder to come upwith anindependent view onthe degree to which vulnerability
 has beenreduced andto fully grasp the implications o f the large number o f complex issues
 raisedby the reconstruction experience o f this project, the OED PPAR mission visited a total
 o f 47 villages, including inthat number relocated villages and reconstructed villages (where
 whatever was done took place where buildingshadbeen before). (The next chapter o f this
 report enumerates project achievements inthis respect and compares them with the relevant
 target). Project documents make an additional distinction between villages where
 reconstruction and rehabilitation took place, but, as will be discussed further below, that
 distinction was nearly meaningless to an outside observer.

 10.      The mission inspected 28 o f the villages relocatedto new sites (54 percent o f all
 villages inthat category) -includinghousehold visits and beneficiary interviews. The houses
 inthe project-relocated settlements were builtbyconstruction firms or nongovernmental
 organizations, andthe new settlements hadbeenprovided with a wide range o f public
 amenities (schools, health centers, child feeding centers, access roads, storm water drainage,
 electricity, water supply, and, insome instances, irrigation). Inmost cases such things had
 not existed inthe project villages before the earthquake.

 11.     Because the rubble clearance costs were low and some public infrastructure remained
 usable, families inrelatively less-damaged villages stayed inplace. They received new
houses but stayed intheir original communities and on their own parcels o f land. The mission
 saw eight o f the villages reconstructed inplace. The project essentially restored whatever
public buildingshadbeen damaged inthe villages o f this category, and provided only the
most essential urbanservices. Thus, at least interms o f the value o f benefits received, the
incentives strongly favored the relocatedvillages. This explains why villages litigated for
relocation evenwhen it might not have been technicallyjustified or economically necessary.


The State Government SteadilyIncreasedits Capacityto ManageDisasters

 12.     Between 1994 and 1998, the project was implemented by a project management unit
(PMU) which was granted full powers to make administrative andfinancial decisions
normally handled at the Cabinet levelby the state bureaucracy. The PPAR mission found a
very broad consensus regarding the performance o f the unit -that it had done an outstanding
job o fmanaging the reconstruction process under difficult circumstances, thanks to careful
analysis, sensitivity to local requirements, and speedy decision making. This opinion was
shared by the GOMwhich, in 1999 after credit closing, decided to convert the PMUinto a
statewide disaster management unit. Four years passed before all the needed actions were
taken. By September 2004, however, the PPAR mission found that the former PMUstaff
now enjoy permanent status. The unit i s now a permanent agency responsible for relief and
rehabilitation. Its responsibilities include: minimizing loss and damage from the full range o f
hazards to which the state is subject; monitoring emergency situations and providing

                                                       4


Box 1. WorkingHard or HardlyWorking: The Saga of the Junior Engineers

Oversight responsibility for the retrofitting and strengthening component was given to the District
Collectors3 assisted by about 800 junior engineers who were hired on a six-month renewable
(consultant) contract to supervise repairs on site. In the beginning, the engineers were not highly
motivated and they supervised work at an average of about 10 houses (each) in about a year and a
half. First they used the rainy season as an excuse for slow repair work. In the dry season they
complained that reconstructionwas not happening because water was lacking and families could not
buildwithout it. Additional disruptions resulted from three strikes staged by the junior engineers, as
part o f their campaign to get permanent positions within the GOM system.
After about two years, social development and women's organizations were hired to help the
engineers to motivate the beneficiaries and to speed up the repair process. While the social
development consultants failed to jump start the rehabilitation effort, they were able to communicate
to implementers that the beneficiaries were determined to invest any monies they received in new
construction rather than repairs. The junior engineers, who were generally unenthusiastic about mud
housing, were quite pleased to be building new structures out o f cinder block and concrete: it was
certainly easier to do (and more professionally appealing) than carefully placing odd bits o f stone in
crumblingmudwalls onthe verge o f collapse.
To hrther speed the reconstruction process, an incentive program was created for the junior
engineers. If the engineer-supervised buildings met target dates, then the engineer's salary was
increased and the amount the beneficiary family was to receive increased as well. When the number
o f household visits had a clear connection to take-home pay, the number o f supervisions and the
speed o f installment pay-outs increased remarkably. Work moved along rapidly: at the peak, 20,000
houses were built a month. Ultimately 250,000 were constructed in 13 districts. The new structures
also increased usable interior space as damaged structures were often left standing for use as
storerooms.
By credit closing the GOM gave in to the pressure o f the junior engineers, and gave them all
permanent positions in state government. The role of the District Collectors in the reconstruction
process was generally positive, and highlights the importance of coordinating local and state-level
governments during disaster response.


communication and, where appropriate, guidance to other public agencies; strengthening
partnerships with the nongovernmental sector; conductingrisk assessments,vulnerability
analysis and hazard mapping; preparingaction plans tailored to identified hazard levels; the
elaboration o f statewide mitigation strategies and actions; and the preparation o foperational
manuals. It currently has offices at the state and district level where it staffs an Emergency
Operations Center and 33 District Control Rooms.


13.      Theproject created videoconferencing rooms and a computerized email systemwhich
have improvedcommunicationbetweenpublic officials inthe districts, especially critical
duringemergencies. Justbefore themission, rescue operations following a localized flood
hadmanagedto save numerous lives because several agencies coordinated their activities and
equipmenteffectively-inamannerthat would not have beenpossible earlier.

3. District Collectors head the government administration in a district. They are appointed by the national
government to coordinate and monitor the development activities o fgovernment departments working ineach
district.

                                                        5


 14.      Although it was intended that seismic data gathered with project-funded equipment at
the National Seismological Data Center bemade publicly available, especially to the officials
charged with disaster management, seismic risk data (especially for cities) is considered
politically sensitive, reportedly on the grounds that it could have an impact onproperty values
inseveralmajorurbancenters, anddistributionis carefully restrictedto anundersizedgroup
that does not include staff with disaster management resp~nsibilities.~Under the project, about
7,000 builders andmasons were providedvocational education, focusing especially on
earthquake-resistant buildingtechniques. Ths has been an important contribution to the safety
o f the thousands o fhouses reconstructed, a process described further below.

Successive Disaster Assessments Missed the Mark

 15.      Early efforts to beginthe reconstruction o f private housing were complicated by
botched attempts to quantify the damage and definitively identify beneficiaries. Although
damage assessment was done inaccordance with criteria developed by the International
Association o f Earthquake Engineering (IAEE), their criteria fit the prevailing construction
types very poorly. Damage classification was based on assignment o f each damagedbuilding
to one o f five categories.

          1. Slight non-structural damage
          2. Slight structural damage
          3. Moderate structural damage
          4. Severe structural damage
          5. Collapse

16.       One problem was that the criteria were relatively simple to apply to modem
buildings, but difficult to apply to most o f the earthquake-damaged buildingswhich were
made (using traditional designs) o fmudand loose stone. It was nearly impossible to tell the
difference between slight non-structural damage andmoderate structural damage by looking.
Andit was impossible inmanycases to distinguishbetween earthquake damage, poor quality
construction, and a prolonged lack o f maintenance. Worse, the first assessment team was
composed entirely o f revenue officers who hadlittle knowledge o f construction. In 1995,
about a year and a halfafter the earthquakes, as a result o f misguided generosity, the newly
elected state government expandedthe number o f beneficiary families by about 150,000.
Subsequently, when the cost implications o fwhat was essentially a political decision were
better understood, the decree was revoked. The GOM's granting andtaking away o f
reconstruction entitlements complicated the task faced by project staff. It took three
successive attempts at damage assessment (each requiring tens of thousands o f house
inspections) to finalize lists o fbeneficiary families inthe villages and to determine which
houses were to be repaired andwhich ones demolished and reconstructed.




4. The PPAR missionrequested a meeting with Department o f Science and Technology (DST) to discuss the
achievements and impacts o f the seismic monitoring component and the GIS system. The latter currently
prioritizesnatural resource data and not disaster management, as originally intended. Staff attrition (reportedly)
has left no one still familiar with what had beendone. It was not possible to arrange a meeting.

                                                        6


Protests and Litigation

 17.     The complexity of applying the categorization scheme, the disparityof early awards for
similardamages (whichvariedbetweenaboutUS$479and$1,3 15) and, to a lesserdegree, the
lack oftransparency o fthe assessment process, stimulated controversy andledto legal
challenges.Litigationby (over 70) excluded families resultedinlower court rulingsintheir
favor, andcourt orders for the inclusion and/or reassessment o f63 entire villages. Thankfully, the
SupremeCourt finally lostpatiencewiththe growthofits docket andsuspendedallbeneficiary
litigationagainstthe project inlower courts. Inits ruling,however, the SupremeCourt instructed
the project to return to the reconstructedvillages andto installbathrooms ineachnew house.'

 18.     While the court cases andbathroomretrofits were going on, project staffreceived
about 17,000 complaints demandingadditional compensation o f varying sorts, and, following
further review,about 4,000 ofthese caseswereresolved inthe claimants' favor.

 19.     Notwithstandingthe unremittingdamage assessment controversy, most o f the
severely damaged villages inLatur and Osmanabadwere relocated to more congenial sites
underthe project. Families inthese villages generally wound upwith more land andbuilt
area thanthey had ownedbefore the disaster. Inthe end, to put a stop to the disputes that
were takingway too much o f PMUstafftime, families classified inthe first three damage
categories (para. 15) received the same amount o f compensation.


A Clever Strategy for Achieving a Safer BuiltEnvironment

20.      A keydecision made early intheprojectbyIndia's leadingearthquake engineer (a
consultant to the PMU) was to promote simpletechnical solutions that were easy to
implement.The consultant -who inrecognitionofhis service to the countrywas
subsequently made the National Seismic Adviser -was convincedthat reducingthe
vulnerability o f the settlements to be rebuilt requiredthe distillation o f a vast body o f
technical knowledge into a uncomplicatedmessagethat couldbe easily communicatedto
thousands o f construction workers and225,000 homeowners. It i s a testament to his stature
that the engineering community, often a source o f conflicting opinions and excessively
complex technical requirements inother disaster responses, followed his lead. H i s simple
message: earthquake-resistant masonry construction has steel reinforcements at the comers,
andcolumns that ringthe structure at the ground(foundation) andlintel levels. People with
little education found this advice to be totally comprehensible. They understood the concepts,
and, as will bediscussed further below, almost without exception(andincluding families that
didnot participate idbenefit from the project) these features have been incorporatedin
rebuilthouses andpublic facilities. Giventhe general acceptanceo fthe simpletechnical
concepts, the construction o f 475 modelhouses (which was intendedto help with the housing
education process) was superfluous, and it took place too late. Also, early completion o f
higher cost donor-built housingraised community expectations, and as a result the models
did little to helpthe dissemination of safer but more-economical housingtechnology.

5. Before the earthquake very few houses had bathrooms. No space inthe new houses was allotted for a
granary, which, inalmost all the houses visited, resultedinthe new bathrooms being used for grain storage
rather than for sanitary purposes.

                                                        7


 StrongBorrower Ownership,BeneficiaryPreferences,andFlexibility

 21.       Borrower commitment and flexibility made the project a success. Because the top
 people inthe PMU(as well as other k e y officials inthe GOM) were convinced that the h t u r e
 ofthe state o fMaharashtra wouldbe influenced to a considerable degree by approach taken
 duringreconstruction and economic rehabilitation, they were committedto a successful
 outcome, andresolved not to let the project fail. This resolution was decisive when, because
 o f beneficiary preferences, several aspects o f the original design o fthe project proved
 unworkable.

 22.       Adoptingbeneficiary preferences guarantees beneficiary ownership and enhances
 sustainability. For the GOM it was important to take beneficiaries into account, even though
 the expressed preferences mightmean that implementation took a little extra time. For
 example, when work started o n the relocated villages, it turned out that for cultural reasons
 the beneficiaries wanted to enter their houses from either the east or the west, but definitely
 not fiom the south. Villagers were insistent that cobblers should be located at the west end o f
 the villages so that the prevailingwinds would blow the smell o f tanning away f i o m the
 houses. Beneficiaries wanted strongpegs andhooks installed higho n their walls because
 they store their grains by hanging them insacks. They have little furniture, and strategically
 placed hooks give an important additional dimension to a room.

 23.       Actually, there were a succession of modifications to the project approach that were
 made for the purpose o f overcoming obstacles and accommodating stakeholder preferences. If
 the inhabitantsof less damaged village wanted to relocate, they often receivedpermission to do

1so under the project. Insome cases stakeholder insistence was due to their awareness that new

 Box 2. RelocatedVillages HadUnforeseenBenefitsAnd Problems:The CaseofKillari.
 The epicenter o fthe earthquakewas near the village of Killarilocated inthe Latur district, about 300 miles
 southeast of Mumbai. What happenedto Killari is representative of several notable reconstruction trends.
 First, as happenedwith 52 out ofthe 67 heavily damagedvillages, the village was relocated to a new site.
 Only a few badly damaged buildingsremained standing inthe original site after the disaster, and, as of
 September 2004, only the sacred temple buildings had been repaired in Old Killari. Second, the original
 village, whch was quite large before the disaster, was bifurcated. That is, two new villages were built and
 the population divided. While some critics argue that this and other village bifucations (informants
 estimated variously the number of villages bifurcated at 25-30) were done to separate castes, project staff
 argue that this i s not the case. The criteria for placement in one of the new sites were proximity to each
 family's agricultural land and a reduction incommuting time. Third, the type of lodgmg provided is too
 small to permit the preservation o f the nuclear family. The typical family received 4 to 5 units. Fourth, the
 footprint of many villages has grown about tenfold. The two NewKillaris occupy 15 times more landthan
 the origmal village (project-wide the average i s eight times more land). Generally houses are well built.
 The distancebetweenhouses is greatly increased. New houses have separate kitchens. The reconstruction
 was carried out by several NGOs and agencies under government contract. This approach led to high
 expectations; competition for superior relocation sites and house design; and a sense of entitlement
 reflected in the general refusal to pay tax, water, and electricity bills once the new houses had been
 handed over to their new owners. Negotiations over contentious issues were not always peaceful.
 Aggression against construction workers and willful destruction of rebuilt houses in Killari led to work
 stoppage for over eight months. An earthquake in 2000 caused minor plaster cracks in some houses.
 Villagers are demanding public h d s for cosmetic repairs.

                                                 8


villages receivedmore public amenities. Inabout halfo f the relocatedvillages the distribution
o fhouses didnot place family members inclose proximity. Inthe later stages o f the project
beneficiaries requested that social and family ties berespected inthe distribution andthis was
done. When villages slated for relocation were peopledwith opposing factions that could not
agree onwhere the new village should be located or the designo fthe reconstruction plan, the
PMUdivided the groups andbuilttwo villages. Ifthe project engineers were progressing too
slowly doing the housing inspections, the PMUcreated piecework incentives to make them
deliver the volume o fwork needed. htially, IDA didnot want to finance stone flooring.
Beneficiaries wanted flagstone flooring because other donors working inthe area were
providingit. Ultimately the Bankand GOMdecidedto provide stone flooring too.

The Rehabilitation of DamagedHousingProvedUnacceptableto Survivors

24.     In749 villages that were locatedfurther away from the epicenter, inwhichthere had
been few deaths, and inwhich dwellings had suffered less than 70 percent damage, it was
intended that houses would either be retrofitted or repaired by the owners themselves. Once
the decision hadbeen made to allow the beneficiaries themselves to decide whether they
wanted a repair or new construction (see B o x l),   cash and materials were given out to them
ininstallments. Eachpayment took place at an easily definable stage, determined bythe
height o f the new construction and the observable presence o f a key steel reinforcement set in
concrete. Inorder to receive the next installment, the homeowner had to pass an inspection
byajunior engineer that certified that earthquake-resistant techniques hadbeenused.
Beneficiaries received support incash or buildingmaterials (up to the equivalent of US$479
ingovernment funding) for the repairs. Originally the govemment hadplannedto engage
villagers instrengthening damaged structures by sealing fractured walls, bonding stones in
the corners o f rooms and at other critical points, insertingconcrete layers at various wall
heights, anchoring timber beams, andbuildingmudroofs with less weight.

25.     The mission visited 11o f these villages and learned from project staffthat the repair
component hadnot taken place as anticipated. Beneficiaries inthe repair programwere very
reluctant to reconstruct stone housing because they perceived (the widely available and free)
stone as a major cause o f housing collapse andthe resulting deaths. About 14,000 families
defaulted (refused to construct as agreed) after receiving the first installment. Inthe entire
disaster region, not a dozen families were willing to use the compensation they received to
rehabilitate their houses usingthe project-recommended techniques. The mission asked to see
rehabilitated housing inmany o f the villages visited without finding a single example, and
several project staff admitted that they believed there had only been eight rehabilitations in
the entire disaster-affected zone. Recycling didtake place, however: many new houses used
stone from the destroyed houses infoundations.

26.     While field observations make it clear that motivating the villages (scheduled for
rehabilitation and strengthening) to repair their houses hadproved to be a challenge too great
for project managers, is this a deficiency o f the project? Arguably it was not. Each damaged
house was damaged ina different way. It was extremely difficult to estimate how much a
repair would cost, or even to tell what type o f repair would be necessary without dismantling
most o f what remained (because the degree to which stones were bonded to the mudmasonry
inside the walls and the integrity o f wood roofing beams covered by compressed earth could

                                                      9


not be seen). Since the traditional structure was never designed or supervisedby an engineer
or architect, there i s no possible way to know how safe any rehabilitated house actually was.
From the outset, beneficiaries invillages slated for "just repairs" sought to have new houses
constructed for them. With the support provided, the beneficiaries refused to make a
significant hrther investment ina damaged house made o f stones heldtogether with
earthquake-pulverized mud.

27.      Once it became permissible (see Box 1)they opted insteadto construct one or more
new rooms ina new fi-ee-standing structure located near or adjacent to their still-standing but
damaged house. Inother words, they built new houses. Most commonly, a totally new house
constructed o f steel-reinforced concrete masonry. With the low local cost o f labor (and often
withjust self-help construction) the amount allotted for repair was sufficient to erect a 200-
square-foot house o f steel-reinforced concrete. Many families built larger structures
supplementing the project allotment with their own funds.



3.       Achievement of Objectives

28.      The three overarching project objectives identified by the Memorandum o f the
President were fully achieved as follows.

Objective 1:Assist with rehabilitationand reconstructioninthe earthquake-affected
areas (fully achieved)

29.      Critical "lifeline" facilities were given priority. This included the repair o f some roads
and the construction of bothdirt and blacktopped new roads. The project provided access
roads for relocatedvillages (157 kilometers), repair o f existing right o fways to permit access
to relocatedvillages (116kilometers), inter-village roads (59 kilometers), blacktop (37
kilometers), urbanroad repair (297 kilometers). Bridge repair received considerable attention
(8 major bridges strengthened, over 200 lesser bridges repaired, and 156 [minor] new bridges
constructed). Incommunities where water systems were damaged, repairs to the supply
infrastructure were made. Insome cases temporary facilities hadto be installed while
permanent repairs were underway (51interim systems, system repairs in53 villages). A new
water supply system was provided to all the relocated villages and several others (57 new
systems, 22 inOsmanabad, and 35 inLatur).6This entailed the construction o f aqueducts,
two treatment plants, and, for each community, a new piped system. Duringthe PPAR
mission it could be seen that water service is intermittent. Under normal conditions the
families receive about 40 liters per capita a day. The mission took place during a drought
(actually, 2004 i s the fourth consecutive year o f drought). The system was consistently
delivering about 30 liters a day per family. Repair and reconstruction o f dugwells (337)was
undertaken throughout the project area.


6. The water systems were not adequately designed for local soil conditions. The highly expansive "black cotton
soil" was so dynamic that the pipes, which were made out o finexpensive butbrittle asbestos cement, fractured
and burst as the earth was moistenedby rain and then dried out. Inmany areas the problem was only overcome
when the original pipes were replaced with iron andor PVC.

                                                       10


30.       To the degree possible, the P M U attempted to reinvigorate the local economy. Since
most families dependedupon agriculture, restoring localproductivity was a priority. Farm
implements(24,363) and agriculturalequipment (12,639 units) were provided to replace lost
and damageditems. Farm animals (1,534 cows, 829 bullocks, 1,8 12buffaloes, 1,342 sheep,
and 8,269 goats) were purchasedinother parts o fthe country andbrought to Maharashtra for
distribution. There was also financial assistance for artisans and small businesses (555
grants) so that lost equipment, inventories, and implements could be repurchased.

31.        The earthquake damaged irrigationinfrastructure over a wide area. Some o fthe
damage to embankments was handledby contracting local laborers. Among the repairs to
larger facilities conducted underthe credit were: reconstruction o f offices for government
officials managing the irrigation system, repairs to storehouses and machinery repair
facilities, rebuildingthe Talni aqueduct and 125 percolationtank embankments, 92 major
earthworks, and strengtheningo f 218 weirs.

32.        O fthe 67 severely-damaged villages, land was acquired to relocate 52 villages and
the same numberwere ultimately relocated (49 villages estimated, actual results are 106
percent o f appraisal estimates'). Itwas estimated that 23,000 new houses would be built in
those villages and 27,944 new houseswere erected (121 percent of target). New urban
infrastructure was provided to all these houses. Movingto a new village provided young
marriedcouples with the opportunity to own their own home and move out from under
parental roofs and oversight. And more housingunitsper family also meant more landi s now
ownedby each family.

33.       Inthevillages that were notrelocated, 10,622 houseswerereconstructedinsitu(35
percent o f appraisal estimates). Interms o fthe housingrepairs that were to take place,
189,113 houseswere totally rebuilt (101 percent o f estimated) and 8 were repaired.

34.       Pilot strengthening o f 3,876 undamagedbut vulnerable housestook place (5,000
appraised) to demonstrate strengtheningtechniques: The actual cost o f retrofitting was higher
than anticipated. Therewere also 475 (500 appraised) model houses constructed for
educational purposes to demonstrate constructionwith earthquake resistant features. These
were later givenover to communitypurposes or handed out to widows andhandicapped
families. Trauma centers were built inOsmanabad and Latur. An orphanage for 150orphans
was built inPune. A school was built on the same on same site. One old-age home and one
handicapped care facility were constructed.

35.       Women's Groups and Issues. About 500 community-based women's organizations
were formed with the help ofproject staff. Self-help savings groups were formed inthe
relocated villages to provide small loans.' Fifty-two community centers andtwo district

7. Estimates are according to the Memorandum o f the President (MOP). Appraisal reports are not prepared for
disaster projects.
8. The mission met with the officers and members o f two savings groups and found that they were still meeting
once a month to manage loans and oversee savings deposits. Inboth groups the amount o f money circulating
was a little under US$300. The women said that the most common use o f loans is for family emergencies
(sickness, school fees and uniforms, ceremonies, and responsibilities to the extended family). Instances o f loans
beingusedfor money-making schemes were infrequent.

                                                      11


resource centers were constructed that are available for use by women. Inmost relocated
villages, women were given title to propertyjointly with their spouses, and widows were sole
owners. About 1,140 childcare/feeding facilities were built.

Objective 2: Increase the earthquake resistanceof buildings and infrastructure (fully
achieved)

36.      Each private house that received andpassed engineering inspectionand all public
buildingsreconstructed or retrofittedwere earthquakeresistant. Therewere 3,722 school
buildingsconstructed, as well as 1,856 public buildings o fvarious types, and 9 historic
monuments.' Success inthis areawas due to several measures: the development o f improved
standards for design and construction that were simple and understandable to the average
villager, the information dissemination campaigns to propagate technology, training o f
artisans, and inspectiono f reconstruction designs. Another contributing factor was the
training givento about 7,000 builders and masons inearthquake-resistant techniques.

Objective 3: Develop the ability of the Government of Maharashtra to respond more
effectively to natural disasters(fully achieved)

37.      Modern disaster management equipment was providedto the GOM. There i s now a
state Secretariat o fRelief and Rehabilitation. A statewide disaster management planwas
developed that includes landuse regulations, a mitigation strategy that covers risk assessment
and vulnerability analysis, public awareness, disaster management legislation as well as a
public policy on reliefand rehabilitation, and a research agenda. An emergency operations
center has beenbuilt inMumbai and there are 33 others inthe districts. A communications
network for wireless (VHF) i s inoperation, as are the satellite (V-SAT)networks, a GIS-
baseddisaster management information system, community disaster preparedness programs,
and training and support to regularly update the plans. The project hashad an influence far
beyondMaharashtra's borders. A National Institute for Disaster Management was
established inthe Ministryo f Home Affairs. Today, the GO1i s settingup state-level
emergency management agencies for each state, with crisis control rooms all over the
country connected by communication systems that provide critical information inreal time to
the District Collectors. The national government has strengthened its capability to undertake
more effective seismic monitoring andresearch, although it has yet to share data with
relevant disaster managers.

38.      The disaster management capacity created inMaharashtra has also beenbeneficial to
neighboringstates andthe conversion o f the PMUinto an emergency management secretariat
served as a model for national disaster management efforts. While there i s almost no
precedent for states helpingeach other inIndia, the state o fMaharashtra supported
neighboringGujarat with US$30million o f its own resources -they were used to construct
5,000 houses intwo villages plus accessroads, electricity, and water supply. Furthermore,
masonstrained under this project helpedinthe rebuildingo f Bhuj.Additionally, more than


9. Problems with the Department of Culture resulted inless achievement than anticipated inthe monument sub-
component.

                                                 12


400 cyclone shelters and schools were built inOrissa by GOM following a devastating
cyclone.

39.      At the national level, modern seismic equipment (costing US$8 million) was
procured; monitoring stations were set up, as was a National Seismological Data Center. Ten
new and 10upgraded digital seismological observatories are able to monitor earthquakes
down to magnitude 3 on the Richter scale. Data are automatically fed into the National
Seismological Data System. The IndiaMeteorological Department never purchased
accelerographs (meters specially equipped to measure and record ground motion during an
earthquake) which would have added depthto the data collected.



4.       Conclusions and Lessons

40.      The MaharashtraEmergency Earthquake Reconstruction project received
international recognition: it won a Sasakawa Award for Disaster Prevention, and it was
selected to a list o f the 100best projects by the United Nations Center for Human
Settlements. The Maharashtra demonstrates that Bank and its development partners can help
borrowers facing a complex reconstruction situation to be very successful, even when the
scale o f the damage is large. Staff inthe PMUwere able to supervise the construction o f
large numbers ofhouses andpublic buildingsina short time under difficult conditions inthe
field. And they were able to catalyze the social and economic aspects o f the recovery as well,
achieving a poverty impact that is largely unprecedented. Class and ethnic differences are no
longer visible inmany villages. Furthermore, the vulnerability o f an area likely to confront
earthquake disaster again at some point has been significantly reduced. There are seasoned
institutions staffed with staff knowledgeable about disasters and functional new
communications networks. Nearly all o f the rebuilt dwellings are earthquake-resistant.

41.      The GOM-contractedjunior engineers personally supervised the construction o f each
o f thousands o f constructions. This was only possible because the essence o f disaster-
resistance was distilled down to three simple messages. It also highlights the importance o f
close govemment monitoringinreducing disaster vulnerability.

                                                     13


42.       N o w that it is clear that the Bank and its borrowers can function effectively at a scale
larger than ever before, thought needs to be given to improvements that might b e tried the
next time. The strategic approach to the reconstruction process adopted by Maharashtra
should be modified before receiving wider adoption. Byprovidingbeneficiaries (especially
those who were relocated) with a comprehensive solution to their personal and community
problems it encouraged more demands, disputes, and ultimately litigation. The MEERPwas
largely government-driven. It involved large construction firms but only a limited number o f
N G O s - some o f the latter being large construction firms reconstituted as NGOs so as to
qualify for additional contractsunder the project. Bycomparing the Maharashtra experience
with that ofthe Bank-financed Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction project, the
way forward i s somewhat clearer (see B o x 3).


MostProjectProblemsWere Not SeriousShortcomings

43.       OEDis currently undertaking amajor review ofthe Bank's emergency reconstruction
Box 3. Comparisonwith the ReconstructionProcessafter the Gujarat Earthquake

The Gujarat project was a Bank-financed response to a subsequent earthquake that was visited by the
PPAR mission for the OED evaluation o f Natural Disasters and Emergency Reconstruction. While its
experience i s covered in a background paper, several distinctions between the approaches taken by the
two projects are worth noting here. Reconstruction o fprivate houses was owner-managed construction
(about 85 percent) and a muchlarger number o fNGOswas involved (over 100).
An owner-driven approach can result inhousing layouts that take the needs, occupations, and family
size o f the beneficiaries more into account. Such an approach shouldbe followed inthe future inlarge
countries where there i s a well developed construction industry and a large geographic area
untouchedby disaster.
While Maharashtra adopted a compensation approach, which opened the door to lawsuits, Gujarat
adopted an assistance approach with no legally binding grievance redressing mechanism in place.
The compensation-centered approach seems to have been a mistake.

    Accordingly, Maharashtrahad to cope with a large number of lawsuits that were finally decided
    by the highcourt inthe beneficiaries' favor, while Gujarat's ombudsman, who had no power to
    redress grievances, processed 40,000 complaint letters, but probably did little to resolve the
    problems brought to his attention. Inthe end, however, beneficiary satisfaction was high in both
    projects (according to survey results inthe former andmission observations inthe latter).
    Damage assessment was problematic in both projects and had to be redone. Instead o f using a
    complicated scale with five criteria and a wide range o f cash awards, a simpler two-point scale
    wouldhave beensufficient to determine ifa house couldbe repairedor ifithadto bereconstructed.
    The size of the project area needsto be taken into account inthe design o fthe institutional structure.
    For Gujarat, the implementing agency, GSDMA, had to cover an area much larger than the one
    under Maharashtra (five instead o f two districts), manage five times as much money, and provide
    implementationas well as supervision services. Its institutional capacity was overstretched.
The World Bank learned from Maharashtra not to promote the relocation o f entire villages; insteadit
made support conditional on in situ building. Still, in the emotionally charged atmosphere after a
major disaster, some groups wound up relocating. The Government o f Gujarat ultimately let village
councils decide whether to relocate. Most o f the beneficiaries decided against relocation, a decision
that proved to be wise. After millions o f tons o f rubblewere cleared, damage to some neighborhoods
appeared to be less dramatic than originally thought, and houses were repairedand reconstructed.

                                                  14


lending.While that review is still ongoing, it is advanced enoughto shedlight on some ofthe
things that happenedunderthis project. One ofthe biggestproblems duringimplementation
o fthe MEERPwas the contentious disaster assessment.This tums out to be a fairly common
problem, with controversies around beneficiary selection beingan ongoingheadache faced
by staffinmanyprojects.

44.     Another problematic aspect o f the project was the abandonment o f the appraisal
commitment to locally available materials and least-cost construction. It tums out that
aspirations often shift following disaster, with victims desiringto adopt more modem
(though not necessarily safer or more environmentally appropriate) housing types. Efforts to
convince disaster victims to rebuildusingmudand stone (to use an appropriate metaphor)
ran into a brick wall.

45.     Although this project was classed as Emergency RecoveryLending, which i s
expected to be completed inthree years, it requiredtwo extensions covering an additional
year and a halfbefore closing. How mucho f a shortcoming i s this delay? This project
significantly reduced the long-termvulnerability o f Maharashtra to earthquakes, drought, and
disease. Bank assistance for emergency recovery and restoration projects are to be
commended whenthey include long-term hazard mitigation and loss-reduction measures. A
three-year project period i s not adequate to prepare and implementthe things that needto be
done, and postponingimportant tasks until a follow-on project (which mightnever happen) i s
not an appropriate altemative. Givenwhat was accomplished, and the scale o f the devastation
at the outset, beyonddrawing the lessons contained inthis and the next section to guide
future disaster lending, it i s hardto criticize Bank or borrower staff for the problems
encountered andthe solutions derived.


Ratings

46.     Outcome. The devastating earthquake causeda rapidreassessment o fborrower and
Bank development priorities, focusing themonthe current situationinMaharashtra. Inthat
context, the project fully achieved all o f its highly relevant physical and social objectives
without significant shortcomings, at a scale which taxed the implementation capacity to the
utmost. Efficiency cannot be evaluated with an ERR (which emergency reconstruction
projects do not calculate). However, the per capita andper unit costs o fthe infrastructure
constructed and services provided were inline with local industry standards.And with the
housingcomponent, costs andpoverty targetingrepresent industrybest practice. Overall the
project outcome i s rated highly satisfactory.

47.    Institutional Development Impact. The PMUwas transformed into a permanent
disaster management institution that will enhance humanwelfare over the long term.
Statewide, skills have been upgraded, capable staff recruited and retained, information
systems established, and hazard-related planningprocesses carried out inan unprecedented
manner. The partnership between the GOM andNGOsthat commenced underthe project has
established enduringrelationships. Although not all the project's scientific objectives were
attained (for example, the poor experience with the national seismic data), the project had an
impact far beyondthe borders o f Maharashtra. The result o f the work begununder the Bank
loan, and the added stimulus o frepeated buffetingby disasters has beenthe creation o f

                                                 15


permanent public institutions to manage risks, monitor hazards, and predict disasters. These
have been an example to other Indianstates and the national govemment. InIndia there had
been a major change instrategic thinkingon disasters inthe past decade: disaster risk
management and efficacious response to emergency situations are now central inthe
govemment planningprocess for the first time. The institutional development impact rating
i s substantial. The project experience also changed the rules goveming disaster-response and
ledto significantly simplified procedures.

48.      Sustainability. Hundreds o f communities have either beenrelocatedto areasbelievedto
be safer from earthquakes or hadthe disaster vulnerability o fthe built environment (public and
private) significantIy reduced. Zoning that takes into account disaster vulnerability has been
introduced. T h s will increase the sustainability o fpublic andprivate investmentsfor years to
come. At the time o fthe evaluation the infrastructure constructed had already resistedthe
forces o f another earthquake suffering almost no damage, andit can be predicted that it will
continue to resist disaster risks adding to the substantial benefits delivered. Project-built public
infrastructure (buildings, water systems, irrigation, warehouses, andworkshops) are inuse.
They are generally being well maintainedunder the budgets and oversight o f different
ministries. Technical and financial resilience i s high, as is social support. Sustainability i s rated
likely.

49.     Bank Performance. The Bank responded quickly after the earthquake. Bank staff
helped to design a project that addressed the problems caused by the earthquake ina
comprehensive way. The government I C R notes that its consultations with the Bank team
duringsupervision "could be cited as an example o fthe bestprofessional relationship." Bank
involvement mobilized funding from other sources that complemented project activities in
important ways. And Bank influence moderatedthe frequent and disruptive transfers o f key
public officials. The disputes between Bank andborrower (that led to the third assessment o f
housing) contributed to project delays but the Bank positionhadmerit. Onbalance, Bank
performance i s rated satisfactory.

50.     Borrower Performance. The MEERP is widely considered to be a major govemment
achievement, and key staff members that participated inthe effort are among (or have
become) the foremost disaster experts inthe country. The rescue and relief operations
managed by the Borrower without Bank support set new standards for India. Technical audits
andquality control were handledbyinternational consultants. Project implementers'
flexibility and determination to succeed helped overcome a challenging series o f obstacles.
There were no procurement-related delays. Project-built infrastructure that remained in
public hands has been well maintained and govemment commitment to social stability inthe
housing component is noteworthy. The project exceeded appraisal estimates inmany
components, and benefits were provided to a large number o fpoor families, who were
painstakingly identified according to criteria agreed with the Bank. Highly relevant studies
were completed and used effectively. The project experience has been extensively
documented, with an enormous amount o f data available to the public on CD-ROMs.
Assistance to the OED team andwillingness to leam from the project experience were
exemplary. Covenants were complied with infull. Supreme Court monitoring o f project
progress was unusual but constructive. The borrower's performance is rated highly
satisfactory overall.

                                                16


Lessons Learned

 51.    The mission's field visits to disaster projects inGujarat andAndhra Pradeshwere
 extremely useful for highlightinggood practice inMaharashtra. Among the lessons suggested
bythe project experience are the following:

 52.    Careful poverty targeting and sensitiveproject design can lead to major poverty
reduction impacts even under difficult post-disaster circumstances. The project provided
better than adequate housing for beneficiaries at the bottom o f the social ladder, which shows
the potential o f using the reconstruction periodto promote policies to effectively reduce the
gap between rich and poor. Inthis sense, the project achievements are a lasting monument to
the convictions o f the supervising officials.

53.     Simplicity of message is essential to the adoption of disaster-resistant technologies.
The project promoted simple earthquake-resistant features for non-engineered masonry
construction that could be understood, adopted, and applied by the villagers. Their wide
dissemination and use will benefit a much larger population than originally targeted, as these
techniques would be used infuture house construction. Training 7,000 local artisans in
earthquake-resistant techniques (facilitated greatly by the simplicity o f the message) was a
major contributor to changing the construction practices inthe disaster-affected region.

54.     Damage assessmentsneed to be simple, carefully tailored to local construction types,
and they should lead to damage awards closely tied to the actual cost of what needs to be
done. Although the damage assessment was undertaken ina professional manner, the original
compensation system was too complicated. The experience o f using the criteria o fthe
International Association o f Earthquake Engineering for damage assessment was painful for
all concemed. The assessment criteria may work well for modem, engineered housing where
what can be observed on the surface indicates what i s going on within the wall. But they
were abysmal for classifying damage to mud-bonded stone structures. Many o f the people
interviewed attributed the bulk o f implementation problems to early difficulties
distinguishingbetween damage categories 1-3 inthe first two damage assessments.
Specifically, informants noted that because the distinctions between categories were not
intuitive, this led to a non-standardized assessment because o f observer error.

55.     Future damage assessments that use the IAEEcriteria inareas where owner-built
earthen houses are common need to carefully modify them so that they suit local conditions
andbuildingpractices. Post-earthquake safety evaluations should determine ifbuildings are
habitable and include some sort o f solution for the owners o f those that are not.

56.     The OED study o f Natural Disaster lendingshould explore the ways used inother
Bank-financed disaster projects have arrived at definitive beneficiary lists ina less
contentious manner than the one used here. Pressures to include additional beneficiaries are
inevitable and usually prove impossible to resist. Throughout the project period, the pressure
to classify additional families as eligible beneficiaries continued unabated, and after project
closing (even as late as the date o f the OED mission inSeptember 2004) the GOM was still
negotiating with families denied benefits. There must be a better way.

                                                        17


57.       Beneficiaries entitled to new housing need to make a significant contribution. Bank
emergency reconstruction lending used to expect cost recovery at levels that could not
 feasibly take place, given all the disaster victims had lost andneeded to replace. A recent
PPAR'O o f an earthquake project that targeted low-income families and expected full cost
recovery found that over halfthe original beneficiaries hadbeen unable to pay and
 consequently had given up their homes. So the fact that MEERP provided finished houses for
 fiee i s a reaction to earlier lessons learned.'' But there i s probably a midpoint between full
 cost recovery and no cost recovery that does not create quite so much dependency and
perpetually escalating expectations among beneficiaries. Because they are usedto receiving
 everything for free, and then havingthe govemment come back again and again (bathrooms,
 stone floors see para 25 and Box 2), the PPAR mission found that many beneficiaries innew
villages are currently unwillingto pay user charges for urban services, and it even found one
 group that expectedthe government to paint and maintain their new houses inperpetuity. In
contrast, families inthe villages that stayed inplace are continually improving their homes
 andcompounds usingtheir own funds.

 58.      In the aftermath o fnatural disasters an element o f grant funding is probably
unavoidable, but official largesse should be limited so that beneficiaries contribute their own
 savings, or labor, or materials, or time for rehabilitation. Evenwhere people have no
insurance and l o w incomes, full grant-based rehabilitation is socially pemicious. It i s also not
economically sustainable. Expectations inIndiahave risen. Following the Gujarat
earthquake, there was full awareness o f what hadbeen provided inMaharashtra, and that
awareness constrained project design.

59.       Problems were created by uneven rehabilitationheconstruction incentives. Villages
litigated for the right to relocate even when it was technically contraindicated and likely to
cause individual families great inconveniencebecause the benefits given to villages that only
rehabilitated compared so unfavorably with what other groups obtained.

60.       Owner-driven construction was more effective than the use of contractors. During
project design it was believed that the only way to produce the huge number of new
dwellings neededwas to bringinlarge contractors. The results were as desired. However, in
the villages that were not relocated (where people were expected to repair their units but they
actually built new ones) a much larger number o f (quite comparable) houses were built, and
contractors were generally not involved. Inthose villages it was possible to use localpeople
inconstruction, so employment was created for people from the disaster-affectedregion.
(Contractors generally used imported labor because workers from outside the area were
willing to work 12-14 hours a day inresponse to piecework incentives). Also, when
homeowners were put incharge o f the process, houses are more adapted to each family's
requirements -there was no one-size-fits-all approach necessary. What works inIndia, a
large country with ample production o f buildingmaterials and a highlymobile work force




10.Report No. 28389 on the El Salvador Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction project (Loan 2873)
11.Inthe villages that were not relocated, the beneficiaries made contributions averaging 10to 20 percent o f
the construction cost.

                                                18


may not work everywhere. But the reliance on owner-managed construction was even more
widely usedfollowing the earthquake inGujarat, and the results were equally positive.

61.     Supewisoy personnel do not always need higher education. Thejunior engineers that
worked on the project were over-qualified for what they were expected to do, and this can be
seen intheir concentration on their personal agenda o f furthering their careers by landing
government posts. A number o fpeople interviewedinthe project area suggested that future
projects working with post-disaster housing could more effectively and economically be
supervised bybuilders and masons rather than engineers, at least as regards owner-built
structures.

62.      Grievanceproceduresneed to be inplacefrom the outset. The strikes, protests, and
litigation that plagued this project were partly the result o f not having efficient and effective
processes to redress grievance inplace. An ability to make decisions and communicate them
speedily to the involvedparties is important. A dissemination capacity i s helpful, especially
ifdecisions haveimplications for other beneficiaries.

63.     Participation should only be encouraged when expressedpreferences will be taken
into account. Community participation i s not apanacea, andmore participationi s not always
better thanlessparticipation.Inthis project, participationwas extremely useful inthe design
o fhouses and their layout. Insome o fthe villages visited, however, it created problems that
were difficult to resolve duringthe construction process. This was partly a result o fnot
decidingbeforehand what aspects o f contracted work homeowners should supervise and
what the observers should do inthe event o f a grievance. Women's groups cited local
supervision o f construction as being a triumph o fwomen's empowerment. Onthe other hand,
the missionmet with representatives o f several construction firms that hadbeeninvolved in
activities supervisedby community groups duringthe project. The interviewedcontractors
(and several public officials) were critical o fwhat they classedas "excessive" community
participation leadingto blackmail inthe housing component. Insome cases, homeowners
triedto extract bribes from contractors before approvingthe work. Constructioncompanies
attributed work stoppages inKillari (see Box 2) to frictions and misunderstandingsbetween
builders andvillagers unfamiliar with the proper use o f steel reinforcements andconcrete. In
their opinionbeneficiaries should beinvolvedinthe planningphaseandinhousingunit
allocation. It seems clear that inthe villages visitedhaving individual owners supervise the
construction o fjust their own house was counterproductive, although the use of construction
committees for the same purpose worked better, inpart because the committees were able to
benefitfrom training.

64.     Participationmay have been even less useful where there were stark social divisions,
and a majority may have beeninclinedto call for things that are unfair to the minority. Some
villagers heldup construction starts, demandedbihcation o f villages or new relocation sites,
triedto dictate buildingmaterialpreferences, delayed house allocationdecisions, and
interferedwith the contractors' work. Reportedly community participationwas more
problematic inlarger villages andthose where the political leadership had a clear agenda.
Pressuring Village Level Committees to accept women members was a short-livedtriumph,
as once the project closedwomen's participationwas discontinued.

                                                 19


65.     Relocation of villages that consist mostly of one and two story buildings duringpost-
earthquake reconstruction is usually a mistake in the long-term. Although the GOM considers
the relocatedvillages to be the project's greatest success, and a survey conducted at the end o f
theproject showedthat 77 percent o frespondents thought that the new villages were better
thanthey hadhadbefore, therewere no strongtechnicalreasons to support the decisionto
relocate, andmany good reasons not to do so. The social interactionpattems that have built up
insettlements that havebeenoccupiedfor alongtimearerarelyifeverpreservedinanew site.
Inmost villages the modemstyle houses provided forgo the courtyards whichwere popular
intraditional architecture. Many ethnic groups restrict women to the home compound. Since
the new villages do not have walled courtyards, insome cases this results inthe day-to-day
restriction o f women to a small room. Although most relocated families now own more land
thanformerly, inmanycasesthey are farther fi-om their fields, family graves, andplaces o f
worship thanthey were before. The designo f new villages, though similar to what prevails in
the newerneighborhoodsinthe periphery o fMumbai, didnot fully consider the social,
economic, and cultural needs o fthe villagers. Longer distances betweenhouses (and a lack o f
courtyards) made it difficult for villagers to socialize.


                                                                 21                                                Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

MAHARASHTRA EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2594-IN)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                               Appraisal                 Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                                 estimate           current estimate appraisal estimate
Original commitment                                                246.0
Total cancellation                                                                           30.2
Total project cost                                                 327.8                   348.26*

Cancellation
Average DollariKupeerate: %l=Ks.36.11(
*Indicates actual project cost at December 31, 1998. Estimated project cost to completionby June 1999 is US363.62 Million.




ProjectDates
                                                                         Original                               Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                     November 8,1993                         January 4-29, 1994
Board approval                                                      January 5,1994                          March 31, 1994

Signing                                                                                                       April 6, 1994
Effectiveness                                                        March 5, 1994                           June 27, 1994

Closing date                                                         June 30, 1997                           April 30, 1999


StaffInputs(stafiweeh)
                                                                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            N" Staff weeks                                               US$ (000s)
Pre-appraisal                                     68.1                                                     198.0

Appraisal                                         10.4                                                     26.4

Negotiations                                      10.2                                                     33.2

Supervision                                       205.2                                                    511.4

Other                                             9.0                                                      30.6

Total                                             303.9                                                    799.6

                                                             22                                                 Annex A


Mission Data
                    Date        No. of          Staff days       Specializations              Perfor         Rating       Types of
                 (month/ persons               in field          represented                 -mance            trend      problems
                    Year)                                                                      rating
Identification1      10193          3               2         EC, ME, RE                          -_--           ____         _-__
Preparation           11/93         7               24

Appraisal             01/94         8               25       ME, RE, AC, SP, HS, ES, PC           ----           --__         --__
Supervision           04/94        10               17       ME, SB, CP, UP, HS, SE, RS 1
                      09/94         7               10       ME, SB, UP, HS, GE, EG               HS
                      10194         2               12       ME, UP                               HS
                      02/95         2               10       ME, UP                               S
                      05/95        4                10       ME, UP, DM, SE                       S               1            P
                      09/95        4                6        ME, SO, HE, CD                       S                            P
                      10195        4                6        ME, SO, UP, DM S P                   S               1            P
                      11/95        4                4        CD, SO, ME, UP                       S
                      03/96        2                5        ME, PO                                                           ____P
                      06/96        2                4        ME, PO                               U                            2
                      07/96        2                4        ME, PO                               S                            2
                      10196        2                6        ME, PO                               S                            2
                      01/97        4                6        ME, UP, SO, PO                       S
                      08/97        4                11       RC,PC,SO,PO                          HS
                      11/97        3                5        RC, PC, PO                           HS
                     03/98         3                6        RC, PC, PO                           HS
                     06/98         4               19        RC, PC, IN                           HS
Completion           01198         4               11        RC, IN, AN, FA                       HS             HS           ____
Specialization:AN=Anthropology; CU=Community LlevelopmentSpecialist; CP=Community Planner; DM=Disaster Management

Specialist;FA=Financial Analyst; GE=Geologist; HS=Housing Specialist; IN=Institutional; ME=Municipal Engineer; PC=Procurement;
PO=Project Coordinator; RC=Reconstruction; RS=RehabilitationSpecialist; SE=Seismic Engineer; SB=Small Business Specialist;
SO=Sociologist; UP=Urban Planner


Ratings:S=Satisfactory; H=Highly Satisfactory; ]=Minor Problem; 2=Moderate Problem


Problems: P=Project Management

