CREDIT NUMBER 2594 IN
Project Agreement
(Maharashtra Emergency Earthquake Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated              , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2594 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       1'                    , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCATION (the Association) and STATE OF
MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
seventy-seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 177,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Maharashtra agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Maharashtra declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part
A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Maharashtra shall


﻿- 2 -
otherwise agree, Maharashtra shall carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project
and the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Maharashtra shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of Maharashtra responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   Maharashtra shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿- 3 -
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association.
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section  3.02.     Maharashtra  shall,   under  arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, establish an independent dam safety
panel to review proposals for the strengthening of large dams in the
earthquake prone areas of Maharashtra.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.


﻿-4-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Maharashtra:
Secretary and Special Commissioner
to the Government of Maharashtra
Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
(Earthquake)
Mantralya, Bombay
India


﻿Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other person or
persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing, and Maharashtra
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the    invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, Maharashtra shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, Maharashtra shall use bidding documents based on
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of


﻿-8-
$30,000,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding,   advertised  locally   in  accordance  with   procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of paragraph 1 above,
items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
each or less up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 below, civil works
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association
4.    Small and emergency works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $10,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, or under force account.
5.    Livestock estimated to cost the equivalent of $500 each up to
an aggregate of $2,000,000 may be purchased by direct contracting,
in accordance with established procedures of Maharashtra for such
purchases.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and for equipment,
materials and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.


﻿- 9 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and Maharashtra in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower and Maharashtra shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant  Guidelines). For    complex,  time-based  assignments,
Maharashtra shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, Maharashtra shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to


﻿- 10 -
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contacts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contacts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Maharashtra shall carry   out Part A    of the Project in
accordance with (i) the Program Management Plan dated March 4, 1994
agreed upon between the Association and Maharashtra; and (ii) the
Program Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 9 of this
Schedule 2, and in conformity with the Rehabilitation Policy.
2.    Maharashtra shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
satisfactory implementation plan incorporating a computerized
management information system for works to be carried out under Part
A (ii) of the Project, which shall include limits to the
rehabilitation program in respect of villages to be repaired and
rehabilitated in-situ.
3.    Maharashtra shall prepare a computerized data base, which
shall include, inter alia, the results of the survey of damaged
buildings and a baseline social data, all in a form agreed upon
between the Association and Maharashtra.
4.    Maharashtra shall prepare and publish complete lists of
beneficiaries in each village in respect of each component of the
rehabilitation program under the Project.
5.    Maharashtra shall, prior to award of the contracts, prepare in
consultation with the communities and publish a comprehensive
rehabilitation program including an environmental statement, for
each village under the Project.
6.    Maharashtra shall ensure that design and supervision of
construction of all housing work under Part A of the Project is
carried out in conformity with standards and procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
7.    Maharashtra shall establish and maintain     an independent
quality assurance and technical audit group for the works to be
carried out under Part A of the Project, reporting to the Central
Implementation Group and the Project Director.
8.    Maharashtra shall undertake the repairs of about 180,000
houses referred to in Part A (ii) of the Project only after:


﻿- 12 -
(a)   the seismic engineering experts satisfactory to the
Association have been appointed;
(b)   social surveys satisfactory to the Association      in
respect of about 100 villages have been undertaken;
(c)   a detailed survey including damage assessment, design
solutions and cost estimates, acceptable to the Association, with
the assistance of seismic engineering experts, has been undertaken.
(d)   Maharashtra has deployed technicians trained in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)   Maharashtra  has prepared   a   detailed  action  plan
satisfactory to the Association, including a strategy for completion
of said repairs within a period of three years.
9.    Maharashtra shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
satisfactory Program Implementation Plan which shall indicate the
methods and scheduling of implementation of all components of Part
A of the Project.
10.   Maharashtra shall implement the Rehabilitation Action Plan
dated March 12, 1994 agreed upon between the Association and
Maharashtra, in a timely manner.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


