Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
7 S 55 - JJ2
Report No. 9451-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
June 5, 1991
Industry & Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
r>s document has a restvidted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnaQce of 
their officfidl duties. Its contents wlay not otherwise be disclosed without World lBank authorizatioo.|



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
JD 1.00     G     US$1.49
US$1.00           JD 0.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric ton (t)                    1,000 Kilograms (Kg)
1 Kilometer (Km)                    0.62 Statute Mile
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APC      - Arab Potash Company (the Company)
CC       - APC's Cold Crystallization Process
CIF      - Cost, Insurance and Freight
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
FOB      - Free on Board
GDP/GNP  - Gross Domestic/National Product
GOJ      - Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
IDB      - Industrial Development Bank of Jordan
IsDB     - Islamic Development Bank
ITC      - International Trade Center
ITPAL    - Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JCC      - Jordan Commercial Centers Corporation
JD       - Jordanian Dinar
JII      - Jacobs International Inc.
JPMC     - Jordan Phosphate Mining Company
KC1      - Potassium Chloride (Muriate of Potash)
K20      - Potassium Oxide
LIB      - Limited International Bidding
NRI      - Natural Resource-based Industries
NPK      - Nitrogen - Phosphate - Potash Compound Fertilizer
QR       - Quantitative Restrictions to Imports
RWD      - Research and Development
SMI      - Small and Medium-Scale Industry
SOE      - Statement of Expenditure
tpy      - tons per year
UNDP     - United Nations Development Progra-me
USAID    - US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



F'OR OFFICIAL IJSE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
DEAD SEA XNDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMIARY
I. INTRODUCTION.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II. THE SECTOR: INDUSTRY AND EXPORTS
A.   Industrial Sector and Recent Performance . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.   Export  Performance   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
C.  Export Development Strategy.                                      4
D.   Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                   8
III. THE BORROWER: ARAB POTASH COMPANY (APC)
A.   Background   .     .   .   .   .   .   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
B.   Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
C. Manpower.. ..........  11
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary    ..12
B.  Detailed Project Features    ..13
1.  Scope, Technology and Engineering  . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
2. Raw Materials and Other Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
3.  Environmental Considerations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
4. Markets and Marketing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
5.  Dead Sea Chemical Industries Advisory Services . . . . . .  17
C.   Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
D.   Procurement and Disbursement ....  .  .    ..... .  .  .  .  .   .  20
E.   Project Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   APC Financial Position and Performance . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
B.   Projections  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
C.   Covenants and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
ThIs report was prepared by Mmes/Messrs. H. Harald Burmeister (Task Manager), Robert
A. Mertz, Michael Pearson, Magda El Saifi and W. F. Sheldrick (Consultant). The
appraisal mission took place in January, 1991. The responsible Division Chief was
Mr. V. Bhargava and Country Director, Mr. Ram K. Chopra. Secretarial assistance was
provided by Mrs. Eugenia Dennis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Conttdl
.Page NWo.
VI. kCONONIC ANALUSIS
A.    Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysi .  . . . . . . . . . .   27
B.    Benefits and Risks ...  . .                                      28
VII. AGREEM NTS -REACHED AND RECOMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
SM -
I APC Technical Background
II World Potash Market
III Capital Cost Estimate
IV  IBRD Loan Disbursement Schedule
V Project Implementation Schedule
VI  Supervision Plan
VII APC - Summary Financial Statements (1985-1990)
VIII APC - Financial Projections
IX  Financial Rate of Return Calculation
X Economic Rate of Return Calculation
XI  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
NU         IBRD No. 22881



- iii -
IASI1EMITE KINGDOM( OF JQODAN
DEAM  SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
WOAN AND PROJECT SUNNARY
Borrower:                         Arab Potash Company (APC)
Amount:                           US$15 million equivalent
Termls:                           17 years, including 5 years of grace, a; the standard
variable interest rate. APC will bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks and pay a guarantee
fee.
Project Description:              The project consists of components to (i) optimize APC's
existing facilities and introduce new technology,
leading to an expansion of its production capacity from
1.4 million to 1.8 million tons per year, and (ii)
provide advisory services to help formulate a strategy
for developing new chemical industries based on Dead Sea
brines. The proposed loan would finance, under
international competitive bidding procedures,
centrifuges and other process equipment and an expansion
of water supply. Consultancy services would also be
funded. The project would help increase Jordan's
foreign exchange earnings, generate employment and lay
the groundwork for a potentially important chemical
industry. Project risks are considered to be limited.
Estimated Cost:
Loal      Foreign     TotalLoc  a    al     Forsisn     Total
--JDOOO-                               US, 000
Equipment, Material and Spares   2,312      36,448     38,760       3,452     54,400     57,852
Design and Engineering Services    -         2,831      2,831         -        4,225      4,225
Project Management                 -           772        772         -        1,153      1,153
Construction Management          1,062       1,595      2,657       1,586      2,380      3.966
Civil Works and Buildings          921       2,708      3,629       1,375      4,042      5,417
Infrastructure                     215        858       1,073        320       1,281      1,601
Erection & Comissioning            590       6,028      6,618        880       8,997      9,877
Consultancy Services                33         67         loo         so         loo        150
Base Cost                        5,133      51,307     56,440       7,663     76,578     84,241
Physical Contingencies (10t)       510       5,124      5,634        761       7,648      8,409
Price Contingencies              L.124       5.648     .6.782       L91        8.,429    10.120
InsfitallmdSdl k Cc6,777                    62,079     68,856      10,115     92,655    102,770
Pse-operating Costs, Working
Capital, and Interest During
Construction                    9,9497       2888      12.38S      14.175      4.310     18.485
Financina LReaired              16,274      64,967     81,241      24,290     96,965    121,255



- iv -
FLnancing Plan:              IBRD                              US$ 15.0 million
Islamic Development Bank         US$ 16.0 million
APC                              USS 90.3 million
Total                            US$121.3 million
Estimated Disbursements of Bank Loan:
(US$ million)
FY92     FY93    FY9A 4   X9 F9   2PY
Annual           2.0      6.7      4.6    1.3    0.4
Cumulative       2.0      8.7    13.3   14.6   15.0
Economic Rate of Return:           17%
Memorandum of !-he President:      Report No. 5519-JO
KAR:                              IBRD No. 22881



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (GOJ, the
Government) has requested, and this report recommends, a BanT loan of US$15.0
million to the Arab Potash Company (APC, the Company) to assist in financing
the proposed project (the Project) which consists of components to support the
development of Jordan's natural-resource-based industries. Apart from
supporting an optimization of APC's existing plant, which would result in a
291 increase in Jordan's exports of potash, the Project would provide advisory
services to help APC develop a new complex of downstream chemical industries
to be basea on Dead Sea brine and other domestic raw materials. The Project
was identified in 1989 during supervision of the existing loan to APC and
preparation of the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL)
(Loan 3142-JO).
1.02        The components of the Project are aligned with GOJ's long-term
policy objective of developing the export capability of its industry. The
Project would be in line with the Bank's industrial sector strategy of
supporting domestic resource-based activities, transferring new technology to
the country and promoting industrial development. Bank support is, therefore,
justified. This report is based on the findings of Bank preparation missions
in December 1989 and May 1990 and an appraisal mission in January 1991.
II. THE SECTOR: INDUSTRY AND EXPORTS
A.    Industrial Sector and Recent Performance
2.01        Jordan is a country with limited natural resources and scarce
arable land. Its economy is strongly service-oriented: utilities, public
administration, trade and transport account for over one-half of Gross
National Product (GNP); agriculture contributes about 7X, manufacturing and
mining about 20%. About two-thirds of the output of the latter comes from
four large natural resource-based industries (NRIs) which produce phosphate
rock, phosphate-based fertilizer, potash and refined petroleum products.
Phosphate rock is mined at three different locations in Jordan and exported
through the port of Aqaba, with a small portion used in the manufacture of
fertilizer for export. Potash is produced from Dead Sea brine in a refinery
located at Safi, also for export through Aqaba. The petroleum refinery,
located at Zarqa near Amman, refines imported crude oil for the domestic
market. Some 7,300 diversified small and medium-scale industries (SMI)
account for the remaining industrial output. The principal SMI products are
cement, pharmaceuticals, textiles/garments and foodstuffs.'
1/    For an in-depth analysis of Jordan's SMI sector, see World Bank Report No.
6848-JO, Jordan - Policies and ProsRects fort Small and Medium-Scale
Manufacturing Industries, January 1988.



- 2-
2.02        Since the mid-1980s, Jordan's economy has declined as a result of
slow growth in the oil-producing Arabian Gulf countries and a decreasing level
of remittances. This was exact bated by Jordan's elevated population growth
at an annual rate of 3.4%. In 1988 and 1989, GNP declined in real terms;
manufacturing and mining were stagnant due primarily to the loss of export
markets and to foreign exchange availability constraints; this decline
intensified in 1990. The Gulf crisis has had a further detrimental impact on
Jordan's industrial sector, with 1990 output declining 9% as a result of
reduced domestic and export demand for Jordanian products.
2.03        In late 1988, GOJ had initiated a market-oriented reform program
to restore economic growth, further described later in this Chapter. The
focus of that program is the removal of administrative obstacles and economic
constraints to encourage a renewal of private sector investment and rapid
export growth. This reform program has been supported by the Bank with the
US$150 million ITPAL2, and by the Government of Japan with an equivalent
amount of co-financing. Boosting exports is a crucial objective of GOJ's
economic recovery program.
B.    Exgort Performance
2.04        During the mid-1980s, Jordan's annual exports declined 5% in
foreign exchange terms because of the effect of an overvalued exchange rate
and depressed worldwide fertilizer demand and prices. However, following the
rebound in fertilizer prices and the devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar (JD)
in 1988/89, exports substantially outperformed the economy. Between 1986 and
1989, total exports, expressed in foreign exchange terms, grew at an average
annual rate of 13% to a level of US$935 million in 1989. In that period,
while agricultural exports decreased, _ndustrial exports (including mineral
products) grew at an average annual rate of 18%. 'The Gulf crisis has had a
serious impact on Jordan's non-NRI manufactured exports, most of which were
directed to Iraq, Kuwait and other Gulf countries, and it is estimated that in
the 1990/91 period, Jordan lost exports totalling some US$800 million. Table
"_J summarizes Jordan's export performance (expressed in current JD terms)
from 1980 to 1989.
2.05        The markets and prospects for future growth of Jordan's two major
categories of industrial exports - fertilizer and fertilizer products of the
NRIs, and light manufactured products of the SMIs - are very different.
Exports of the N.Is are internationally diversified and are traded in world
markets denominated in US dollars. With financial support of the Bank and
2/ Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3142-JO), approved in December
1989.



-3-
other development agencies, Jordan has invested heavily in developing its
phosphate deposits and potash extraction; this Project would extend that
record of assistance. Jordanian fertilizers are well placed to supply the
high-growth Asian markets where Jordan enjoys a competitive advantage.
Tabl 2.
Jordan: Merchendse Export Performance (1980-1989)
(JD million)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
198    128    12t    198 L99            1986-1989)
Industrial Products
Phosphate Rock                 47.2   64.8   61.0   76.7  146.3          31.2X
Potash                           0    31.4   28.0   67.3   71.2          31.4X
Comzjund Fertilizers             0    29.1   30.1   48.9   69.0          33.3X
Pharmaceuticals                 3.2   15.4   18.6   18.5   29.9          24.8X
Textiles & Garments              2.5    4.0   12.5   16.4   23.3         79.9X
Engineered Products             2.4    1.4    2.5    3 8   10.9          98.21
Cement                           0      4.0   10.5    3.2    7.5         23.31
Paper Products                  2.0    3.2    5.0    4.9    8.8          40.11
Detergents                      4.6    4.1    3.8    2.3    8.5          27.51
Wood Products                    5.8    0.6    0.1    1.4    4.3         92.81
Plastics                        2.4    3.9    3.8    3.6    3.6         - 2.61
Other Manufactures             2L1   20.3   38,    AL.2   Vi,I           70.01
Total Industrial Products   95.8  182.2  214.5  294.2  483.1           38.41
Agricultural Products           24.3  .43.4   34.3    M.A0                5.51
Total Exports               120.1  225.6  248.8  324.8  534.1          33.31
Average Exchange Rate(US$/JD) 3.00   2.86   2.95   2.69   1.75          -15.11
Source: GOJ Department of Statistics, Amman.
Although phosphate and potash exports stagnated during the mid-1980s because of soft
world demand and record low prices, they have grown 121 per year since 1988 to over
US$514 million in 1989 (compared to US$363 million in 1986), when they represented
551 of total merchandise exports.
2.06        The record of SNI exports has been less even, though growth in the 1980s
was far more rapid than the growth of NRI exports. After declining sharply during
the mid-lM80s, SMI exports grew at an annual rate of 281 between 1986 and 1989.
These exports were concentrated in the Arab region, primarily in countries without
convertihle currencies, with an estimated 751 going to Iraq alone since 1985. The
risk of this concentration was evident even before the Gulf crisis -- as tens of
thousands of workers returned from Kuwait and Iraq, worker remittances plunged, and
Jordan faced the sudden loss of about one-half of its non-NRI export market in Iraq



4-
and other Gulf countries. This highlighted the need to implement a well-designed
strategy of export development, diversification and reorientation toward non-
regional and regional convertible currency markets. The Project would crontribute to
such an export development strategy by expanding Jordan's exports of potash and
other chemicals to convertible currency areas.
C. Export Development Strategy
2.07        Spurred by Jordan's economic crisis of 1988, GOJ embarked on a
wide-ranging reform program designed to deal with several of the most critical
problems which negatively affected export growth during the 1980s: (i)
exchange rate overvaluation; (ii) excessive market concentration; (iii) a
tariff structure and quantitative restrictions which resulted in a strong
anti-export 'ias; (iv) restrictive investment licensing; (v) limited access to
short and long-terr. finance for many SMIs; (vi) lack of incentives sufficient
to compensate exporters for the anti-export bias in the economy; (vii)
inadequate industrial infrastructure; and (viii) absence of effective export
promotion programs. In August 1988, GOJ announced a number of measures to
improve the operating environment for industry. This was followed by the
adoption of a comprehensive industry and trade policy reform program supported
by the Bank's ITPAL. GOJ abolished the investment licensing system, replaced
import bans on almost all competitive imports with tariffs, and simultaneously
abolished all price controls on domestically produced items that were
protected by import bans; it also allowed trading companies all the incentives
and duty exemptions granted to manufacturers. Under the ITPAL, GOJ had begun
to reduce the level and variation of tariffs and to rationalize incentives for
investment and exports. In this context, GOJ was also in the process of
carrying out studies to recommend an export development strategy, establish
more effective institutions to promote exports and investment, and rationalize
the development and management of industrial infrastructure. The Gulf crisis
disrupted the reform program and many of the measures are on hold while Jordan
copes with the immediate crisis. Despite the disruption, the basic elements
of GOJ's export development strategy remain valid. They are described in the
following paragraphs.
2.08        Competitive Exchange Rate and Trade Policies.  The most important
reform affecting Jordanian exports has been the real devaluation of the JD by
about 50 percent since October 1988. From a position of considerable
overvaluation, which had earlier eroded the competitiveness of the productive
sectors, Jordan now has an exchange rate which has measurably enhanced its
competitiveness. Real wages have been reduced through this policy to the
point where they are now competitive with most countries in the region. GOJ
has further supported the reestablishment of competitiveness by prohibiting
private and public sector wage increases since 1988. GOJ has declared its
intention to maintain a market-based, floating, competitive exchange rate,
with limited controls on capital and labor mobility. In its trade policies,
an anti-export bias had developed with the onset of the recession around 1984
when the level of protection offeied to domestic industry was increased,
quantitative restrictions (QRs) were added on many industrial products, and
tariff exemptions for public institutions widened the distortions created by



5 -
the import regime. These policies were reversed in 1989 and, with assistance
from the Bank under the ITPAL, GOJ implemented the following t  t9 policy
reforms: (i) most of the QRs on imports were eliminated in January 1990, and
at the end of 1990, only seven percent of domestic manufacturing in value
terms was protected by QRs, compared to fcrty percent in 1988; (ii) the duty-
exempt status of most public entities was eliminated in 1989, with the
exception of security-related imports and imports protected under
international agreements; (iii) the range between the maximum and minimum
tariffs (from 0% to 318% in 1988) was narrowed to 5Z-60% in early 1990, and is
to be further reduced to 5L-50%. Further trade policy reforms are to be
introduced at a pace and lcyol consistent with the impact of the adjustment
program on revenues and resource allocation. These reforms are txpected to
substantially reduce, though not completely eliminate, the anti-export bias in
the trade regime.
2.09        Rationalization of Investment Incentives.  A second important
reform was the elimination of the investment licensing system, which had not
been successful at promoting industrial diversification or minimizing over-
concentration. The immediate result was a quantum jump in the registration of
new industriai companies with over 1,200 applications received in the first
eight months. To further promote foreign and domestic investment, GOJ has
modified the Encouragement of Investment Law. Qualifying criteria to
determine project eligibility for investment incentives have been reduced.
Processing time is to be cuit through simplified application procedures and
many of the discretionary elements in the law have been eliminated or made
automatic. In addition, GOJ has established a special unit in GOJ's Ministry
of Industry and Trade to assist foreign and domestic investors, and has
extended the incentives allowed manufacturers to export trading companies.
GOJ's tax rules already allow generous tax exemptions on capital investment by
small investors.
2.10        Natural Resource-based Industries.  GOJ has significant
shareholdings, together with some domestic and foreign investors, in the
principal NRIs, the Jordan Phosphate Mining Company (JPMC) and APC, which
extract and export Jordan's two strategic natural resources, phosphate and
potash, respectively. In its capacity as main shareholder, GOJ has encouraged
these companies to expand production, increase domestic value added through
vertical integration, and enhance product diversification and market
flexibility. As a result, JPMC is now exploring opportunities with foreign
investors to establish joint venture phosphoric acid production facilities in
Jordan. Under the proposed Project, APC would increase its production through
the optimization of its facilities, and is studying the feasibility of further
developing export-oriented chemical industries based on Dead Sea brine.
Through four loans (1617-JO, 2786-JO, 2902-JO and 3172-JO), the Bank has
assisted JPMC and APC to optimize investments, introduce the most appropriate
technologies, improve the companies' financial condition, and replace aging
mines.
2.11        Export Market Development and Promotion.  This is currently the
responsibility of the Jordan Commercial Centers Corporation (JCCC), with



-6-
technical assistance .rom the International Trade Center (ITC) located in
Geneva, Switzerland. However, given the past anti-export bias in the trade
regime and its own inistitutional weaknesses, existing arrangements have not
been effective. GOJ is concerned with introducing improvements in its support
to exporters and has commissioned a study (being financed by UNDP, with ITC as
executing agency) to recommend a comprehensive export development strategy and
more effective programs to accomplish these objectives. That study is
expected to be finished in 1991 and wili provide the overall framewiork in
which program' to assist exporters would be formulated and implemented.
Meanwhile, the JCCC, with he'p from the Bank, has prepared a program to
provide immediate assistance to SMIs for the reorientation of their exports to
new markets. This program, being supported through bi-lateral funding, calls
for (i) promotion of export-oriented activities and employment through
technical assistance for industry-level market surveys; (ii) establishment of
marketing services in desigr.ated countries to promote market/product
identification and export sales; and (iii) support for product development
efforts of individual exporters to help offset the loss of the Iraqi and Gulf
markets.
2.12        Flunance for SMI Investment and Exports.  While liquidity
throughout the banking system has been generally adequate in both local and
foreign currency, access to financing for many SMIs, particularly those less
well established, has been hampered by the lack of collateral and the scarcity
of term capital available from the commercial banking system. Under terms of
the ITPAL, the Export Discount Facility of the Central Bank of Jordan which
provides pre- and post-shipment working capital finance, is being restructured
to encourage a reorientatiot. of exports toward convertible currency markets;
such financing is to be made available to all exporters, ':.ncluding trading
companies. Two furti4er instruments are under consideration to facilitate
equipment modernization and technologicAl upgrading among SMIs, namely, a
credit guarantee program and a private-sector-oriented technology development
fund. These would complement a USAID-supported credit guarantee program
directed exclusively toward micro enterprises, and an export credit guarantee
and insurance program under preparation to provide political and commercial
risk coverage for commercial bank-supplied export finance.
2.13        Industrial Infrastructure.  GOJ has provided excellent
infrastructure to support industrial growth in the form of roads, power, port
and telecommunications facilities, and industrial estates. The reforms since
1988 have resulted in a rapid increase in demand for such facilities. Since
1988, the number of industries located at the Amman industrial estate has
nearly doubled to 185 companies. Prior to the recent Gulf crisis, the estate
had run out of available, fully equipped sites, creating a potential need for
investment to meet future requirements. The ITPAL prepared the groundwork for
satisfying this need by including an analysis of the proposed merger of the
Industrial Estates Corporation, which operates the Amman estate, and the Free
Zones Corporation, which operates duty-free zones at Aqaba a.'d Zarqa. The
current crisis situation has damper.ed investments, but in the medium term a
revival can be expected to require further development of industrial estates
and free zones.



- 7 -
2.14        Development of Technical Manpower.  Jordan already has one of the
most extensive education/training systems in the Middle East. Successive
governments have made education and training investments a priority in order
to promote exports of skilled manpower and the resulting inflows cf overseas
earnings in the form of worker remittances. Now, however, GOJ plans to
complement this approach with a strategy for substantially enhancing foreign
exchange earnings from goods exports by raising domestic value added through
appropriate industrial technology development. This strategy in turn requires
a qualitatively and quantitatively enhanced supply of well-trained,
operationally proficient industrial engineers, managers and technicians.
2.15        To this end, GOJ has recently begun to implement with Bank
assistance a comprehensive 10-year reform of pre-tertiary general and
vocational education. The reform is designed to shift the general education
system away from rote learning and memorization of academic material, and
towards analytical/conceptual skills and problem solving. In addition,
vocational training is to be quantitatively expanded and qualitatively
upgraded to meet the need for an increasingly technical labor force. GOJ is
also interested in moving forward with a higher education reform. The reform
program would aim at and woull inter alia respond to industries' complaints
that graduate engineers need 1-2 years' training by firms before they can be
operationally effective. Other practical issues to be covered would include
inter-disciplinary (business and production engineering) MBA programs;
increasing the work experience component of engineering programs; and
evaluation of the potential in Jordan for tertiary level skilled technician
programs analogous to the degree-level technical college education available
in other countries with well developed education and training systems.
2.16        Finally, the recent events in the Gulf have caused a substantial
inflow to Jordan of professional/technical returnees from the region. While
some of them could be absorbed into the public sector (teachers, nurses,
etc.), and others could possibly be re-placed in jobs abroad, a substantial
number would be available for employment in Jordanian industry and commerce,
or might be able to contribute to enhanced economic activity by starting their
own firms. Properly deployed, these individuals represent a substantial,
badly-needed increment to Jordan's supply of technically skilled and
operationally proficient human resources for the development of industry and
its export capacity.
D. Bank Role and Sector Lendina Stratejy
2.17        The Bank's strategy has been to assist GOJ in formulating and
implementing an integrated program of policy reform, institutional development
and targeted enterprise level assistance, aimed -t increasing SMI and NRI
exports. This would be carried out by a combination of current and future
investment and adjustment lending, designed to (i) continue trade reform, (ii)
strengthen the incentives framework and institutions that support investment
and export promotion/diversification, (iii) stimulate private investment and
employment, part'.cularly the development of SMls, (iv) formulate and carry out



-8-
a national science and technology strategy to strengthen institutional support
for export-oriented manufacturing based on the development and utilization of
such a strategy, and (v) develop high-priority export projects that utilize
the country's narrow natural resource base.
2.18        Through the ITPAL, the Bank assisted GOJ in designing a number of
measures to inter alia ensure a competitive and stable macro-economic
environment, improve the competitiveness and efficiency of industry and trade,
and rationalize public expenditures. The ITPAL aimed also at supporting
policy reforms to create a more uniform, non-distortionary set of incentives
across different sectors in the economy by rationalizing the trade regime and
the current system of investment incentives, as well as strengthening the
institutions that support industry and exports. Through four existing loans
over the last ten years, the Bank has assisted the two mair NRIs, JPMC and
APC. Three of the projects supported by these loans have been essentially
completed, while the fourth loan has recently become effective. The lessons
learned, particularly in the APC projects, have been reflected in the design
of the Project. They relate to adequate contingency provisions in project
cost estimates, careful verification of technical assumptions and
consideration of downward risk in assumed world market prices for potash.
2.19        The Bank's assistance to GOJ (through sector work and project
preparation) in developing its export sectors has helped GOJ mobilize
substantial co-financing and bi-lateral assistance on concessional terms to
support many of the elements of the export development strategy described
above. Direct Bank lending for financing SMI development has not been
necessary, and GOJ has sought the Bank's catalytic participation in the
development of the NRI subsector. The Bank's earlier support for developing
production cf potash and other chemicals would continue with this Project
which would assist APC in optimizing its existing production. It also would
contribute to future industrial diversification of the country's narrow
production base by assisting GOJ and APC in determining the feasibility of a
complex to produce a number of exportable chemical products derived from Dead
Sea brine.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.20        The Project fits well within the Bank's strategy in Jordan and
would help GOJ achieve some of its most important economic and sectoral
objectives.   Increasing APC's productive capacity would permit in the medium
term a nearly 30% increase in potash output and exports; this alone would
result in additional gross foreign exchange earnings of some US$40 million per
year at conservatively projected prices. Apart from the financial support and
its role in attracting co-financing, the Bank's involvement would continue to
provide inputs to sound p:oject conceptualization and implementation
arrangements with regard to engineering, procurement and construction. It
would also help provide an independent assessment of APC's international
markets and its competitiveness, and ensure that environmental aspects are
given due consideration in project design and operation. The chemical
industries advisory services would be focussed on substantially increasing



- 9 -
Jordan's natural-resource-based industrial exports in the longer term. The
Bank's support is justified by GOJ's desire for a continued Bank involvement
in the sector by providing an independent assessment of investment strategies
which may result from the ongoing studies. Such an involvement in the
chemical sector is expected to provide assurances to potential investors as to
the soundness of the projects they may be called upon to support in the
future.
III. THE BORROWER: ARAB POTASH COMPANY (APC)
A. BatgtEpund
3.01        APC was    -od by GOJ in 1956, with the purpose of extracting
potash from the hu,   c,aral reserves of the Dead Sea.  As an initial
development, APC con <sS   .d studies in 1960 to investigate the feasibility
of such a project which i-comamended construction of a 1 million tpy plant.
Project development was .nterrupted by the hostilities of 1967 and again
revived in 1974, with an update and expansion of the previous studies. The
studies and associated field work were carried out in 1976/77 with financial
assistance from IDA (US$1 million Engineering Credit) and USAID. A definitive
feasibility study, recommending a plant design capacity of 1.2 million tpy,
was completed early in 1978. Consequently, APC's shareholders -- GOJ, the
majority shareholder then with 51%, other Arab governments (16%) and
institutions (32%) and private local investors (1%) -- authorized a major
capital increase to provide an adequate equity base for implementation of the
first project at the above capacity. In 1978, the Bank approved a US$35
million loan (1617-JO) for the construction of the production facilities, to
be located at Safi at the southern end of the Dead Sea, at an estimated total
cost of US$429 million and with other funding inter alia from USAID and
various Arab funds.
3.02        Implementation of APC's first project was a technically complex
undertaking. Although commercial production from the project was delayed by
one year due to technical problems mainly related to the operation of the salt
harvesting equipment, production build-up was rapid: during the first five
years of operation (1983 to 1987) production amounted to an aggregate of
almost 4 million tons of potash; this was equivalent to 96% of the appraisal
estimate and a remarkable achievement, considering the scale and innovative
nature of the operation under difficult conditions. Plant performance
improvements became necessary during that period and were successfully
implemented by APC.
3.03        The Second Arab Potash Project whose concept and scope were
derived from studies commissioned during 1985/86, was appraised by the Bank in
1986, followed by agreement to provide a US$12 million loan (2786-JO) and is
essentially complete; cofinancing was obtained from the Islamic Development
Bank (IsDB) and USAID. This project consists of an investment and a technical
assistance component. The former was to improve production levels, at
relatively low marginal cost, firstly, by ensuring that the initial 1.2



- 10 -
mllion to US per year (tpy) potash capacity could be reached and reliably
sustaLned, this was confirmed from the productlon realized during 1987, and
secondly, by increasing plant capaclty to 1.4 million tpy which was achieved
ln 1990. The technical assistance component concerned studies and research
and development programs to identify means for the optimal use of APC's
facilities, glven the natural resources available. This included pilot-
plant-scale development of the process parameters for the application of the
new cold crystallization technology within the refinery. Finally, the project
included measures for financial rehabilitation agreed by the Bank with APC and
GOJ for restoring APC's financial structure and position to healthy levels and
broadening the Company's capital base.
3.04        The technical assistance component was crucial to the planning for
further increasing output of potash under the proposed optimization project
using the "Cold Crystallization' (CC) process. A pilot plant was commissioned
ln November 1988 and achieved successful results in providing the basic CC
process design data in preparation for definition of the technical
specifications of a commercial scale plant; this has provided the basis for
the present optimization project. Annex I provides additional background on
the development history of APC's production facilities.
3.05        Since commencing operations, APC has gradually raised its
production to the current level of 1.4 million tpy of potash, which is
equivalent to the present plant design capacity. The entirety of APC's output
is exported through the port of Aqaba. In value terms, these exports are
estimated to represent a quarter of the value of Jordan's total non-
agricultural exports in 1989.  As detailed in Chapter IV, potash exports are
directed mainly to South and East Asian markets where relatively strong demand
growth is forecast to continue, and where APC has a competitive advantage in
terms of production and freight costs vis-a-vis other major producers.
3.06        APC is well managed and operated by capable local staff; thanks to
its efficient and competitive production, APC has recently become profitable.
Its financial position is sound and expected to remain so, even in the event
of some deterioration of world potash and energy price conditions which APC
could sustain for some time without suffering serious problems. Technical
risks to APC's existing operations consist mainly of potential plant
deterioration caused by the corrosive nature of the media encountered in its
currently used hot leach refining process; these risks are being mitigated by
the Company's intensive maintenance and replacement programs. There are no
slgnificant environmental issues.
3.07        Future expansion of APC's production capacity in the mid-1990's
and beyond is likely to require large investments and an increase in its share
capital. APC is expected to have to rely on domestic and international
capital markets for at least part of its Suture equity requirements. In
preparation for this, APC needs to develop appropriate strategies for
privatization and for raising additional equity participation in the capital
market through public subscriptions and/or other means of share capital
mobilization. To achieve these objectives, a starting point for APC would be



- 11 
to develop a track record for its shares by introducing them at an opportune
time on the Amman and possibly other stock exchanges. APC is in a relatively
advantageous position to initiate this, given that as a result of having
reached profitability in 1989, it has already made initial dividend pay-outs
from the 1990 earnings and that it is optimistic about its future
profitability.  In line with the above, &gLq&mg=  were reached with (i) the
Government that it would furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1993, for exchange
of views, a strategy for the privatization of APC (paras. 5.08 (i) and 7.01
(a)); and (ii) the APC that it would prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, by December 31, 1992, its strategy proposed for the mobilization of
additional equity resources, particularly from the private sector, to meet the
requirements of its future investment programs (paras. 5.06 (v) and 7.02 (a)).
The formulation of these privatization and new equity mobilization strategies
would help lay the groundwork for an increased level of private sector
shareholding in APC and for raising additional eouity to help finance future
potash and chemical industry projects. In addition, the strategy proposals
would be expected to contribute to the dialogue that will be initiated in the
context of the proposed SAL, with respect to the privatization of Government
holdings in business enterprises.
B. Organization and Management
3.08        APC, established under Jordan's company laws, is overseen by a
board of directors which is fully autonomous and has extensive powers to
provide policy direction, approve budgets and set compensation. The Company
has not been subjected to undue government interference. This has allowed
management to operate APC in a fully independent manner and on purely
commercial terms. The board is composed of eight GOJ representatives; three
represeutatives of the second largest shareholder, Arab Mining Company, a
holding company formed by the Governments of Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait,
Iraq and other Arab states; and four representatives of APC's direct foreign
shareholders, the Governments of Iraq, Kuwait, Libya and Saudi Arabia. APC is
well managed and operated by capable staff. Its highly competent and
effective managing director has been in his position since 1984 after having
been in charge of the Jordan Electricity Authority for several years and
holding high level positions in GOJ. He is assisted by a team of well
seasoned functional managers, both at the Safi plant as well as the Amman head
office. APC's management information system is well designed and effective
with regard to operational, financial and marketing matters. Its organization
is satisfactory for the scope of its current operations as well as the
implementation and operation of the Project.
C. &NQover
3.09        The level of staff employment in APC currently is at 1,548.  It is
expected that the total number of employees will be gradually increased by 145
persons to bring the total to 1,693 staff when the optimization project is
commissioned in 1994.



- 12 .
3.10        During the past several years, APC has provided intensive training
for its staff at all levels with emphasis towards the maintenance aspects of
the Safi operations, which are critical due to the aggressive nature of the
process conditions and the harsh environment. Training is carried out in-
house (using local as well as foreign trainers) and also outside, locally and
abroad. During the period from January 1989 to March 1990, the following
development and up-grading training activities were carried out in-house:
(i) 267 employees of various skills participated in 38 intensive courses, for
about 1,310 man-days, ranging from electronic circuits to gear boxes and
instrumentation; (ii) the apprenticeship program gave 24 trainees on-the-job
training in maintenance, each for one year; (iii) 39 university stude.ats
received summer training courses; and (iv) 12 newly graduated
engineers/chemists were given one year courses on their future assignments.
Outside APC, 70 middle and top management staff attended 49 local courses,
ranging from production to maintenance and finance for about 1,040 man-days,
and 10 middle and top managers participated ir 11 foreign courses from
international purchasing to rotating equipment (180 man-days).
3.11        For the requirements of specialist technology and operational
techniques, APC has commissioned technical assistance services from other
companies during implementation of the first and second projects, e.g. for
computerized modelling to optimize the solar evaporation system configuration.
APC, however, is now well experienced in the process and is not expected to
need further technical assistance except for the implementation services to be
provided by its engineering consultants, Jacobs International Inc. (JII),
outside assistance in design of the CC unit, and specialized advice related to
the carnallite beneficiation facility.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Summary
4.01        The principal aim of the Project is to assist GOJ in developing
Jordan's industrial production and export capacity. The Bank would support
GOJ's strategy in its critical efforts to improve Jordan's balance of
payments. The Project has two components. The first would support a
substantial increase in Jordan's potash export capacity from the current 1.4
million tons annually to 1.8 million tons. This would be achieved through the
optimization of APC's existing plant, involving introduction of the new CC
technology which has been successfully tested in APC's local pilot plant built
with financial assistance from the Bank. Implementation of this component is
an important step in APC's further financial recovery, enabling the Company,
once it has established a track record of consistent profits, to attract
private capital for its future investment programs. The other component would
help GOJ and APC through limited use of consultant advisory services to
formulate an investment strategy for developing new chemical industries based
on Dead Sea brine. The potash optimization project is well prepared and a
feasibility study was completed in 1990; feasibility studies, based on terms



- 13 -
of reference reviewed by the Bank, are currently underway for the chemical
industry projects.
B. Detailed Project Features
1.  Sgoie.  gechnolonv and Enineerina
4.02        The scope of the optimization project has evolved through APC's
on-going efforts to improve the Safi plant production performance since its
initial start-up (see Annex I): first, by the pressing need to rectify
existing inefficiencies from the first project and, particularly, to improve
the carnallite operation and configurations of the solar evaporation system
and its related equipment; second, to c2)tain substant'.al improvements within
the decomposition section of the potash refinery fo, increased potash recovery
efficiency, as well as more reliable performance of the downstream equipment;
and third, APC's drive towards reducing production costs by modest capital
outlay for minimizing the capital/output ratio. This program of development
is now complete, establishing the existing plant's production capacity at 1.4
million tpy.
4.03        Based on the research and techno-economic studies mentioned
earlier, the optimization project would consist of the following main items,
additional to the existing facilities: (i) a CC process unit of 400,000 tpy
potash capacity, its auxiliaries and equipment and materials to tie into the
original refinery equipment and along with the facility to beneficiate
carnallite; (ii) compressors; (iii) solar pan equipment and new dikes; (iv)
extra product haulage trucks for additional movement of potash to the Aqaba
ocean terminal; (v) a product loading conveyor at Aqaba; and (vi) facilities
to increase fresh water supply to the potash plant. APC's considerable
experience in the technology, construction and operation of the existing
facilities should all.ow it to assimilate the new CC technology with some ease,
since APC's technical staff have run the pilot plant and studied the process
parameters for nearly two years. In addition, APC's contract with JII
requires it to subcontract with Wellman Process Engineering Co., the supplier
of the CC pilot plant, for the latter to provide the basic design and
specifications of the large-scale CC unit and to review for approval the
detailed design.
4.04        In line with the findings of an earlier prefeasibility study, APC
issued bidding documents in November 1989 to a short list of process design
and engineering consultants to obtain proposals for their services to
implement the optimization project, consistent with the terms of the technical
assistance component of the second project. Instructions for the proposals
required that the offers would provide all -roject management services
necessary for completion of the project and that the work would be undertaken
in three separate stages, including (i) a definitive, techno-economic
feasibility study, (ii) basic engineering, detailed design, procurement and
contract documents, and (iii) supervision of construction activities, civil
works, inspection, testing, control of costs and execution schedules,



- 14 -
commissioning/start-up and final report for each stage, etc.; at the beginning
of each stage, APC reserved the right to discontinue the services. The
proposals were evaluated in March 1990 and the contract was awarded to JII,
the firm which had provided the design, engineering and project management
services for the first project and also the pre-feasibility study included in
the second project for a future increase in potash output capacity; this firm
is therefore well qualified for the work. The overall value of the contract
is about US$6.5 million of which US$ 0.5 million is for the first stage, US$
4.2 million for the second, and US$ 1.8 million for the third. The Bank had
expressed no objection to the evaluation of the competitive consultancy
proposals and the first stage services, as part of the technical assistance
component of the Second Arab Potash Project. The feasibility study was
completed in December 1990; cost and execution schedale estimates described
later in this chapter are based on the results of that study.
2.  Raw Materials and Other Inputs
4.05        As previously indicated, the raw material for APC's potash
operation is the Dead Sea brine and particularly, the contained carnallite
compound which must be harvested and processed to liberate the potash content
of that compound. Its security of supply, at no cost, for the mother brine is
guaranteed for a great many years while the Dead Sea exists. In 1956, APC was
granted the sole Jordanian concession to process the brines by GOJ for a
period of 100 years. Energy for the production plants and township is derived
mainly from fuel oil supplied from the oil refinery at Zarqa, to cogenerate
steam and power for operation of the process units. If necessary, power is
available from the national grid which runs close to the plant. Because of
the higher cost from the grid, APC has been maximizing the use of its own
fuel-oil-based power facility. The oil refinery also supplies diesel fuel to
the plant for motive purposes, e.g. the wellwater pumps and the product
haulage trucks. Agreement was reached with GOJ that it would cause the Jordan
Electricity Authority and the Jordan Petroleum Refinery, respectively, to
provide APC with adequate and timely supplies of electric power and petroleum
products in order to enable it to operate its facilities efficiently (para.
7.01 (b)). Other inputs consist of materials and supplies which account for a
small part of the production cost, half of which is attributable to product
anti-caking additives and the remainder to general operating supplies.
Maintenance materials and spare parts, of course, constitute a significant
cost item.
4.06        APC's present needs for water are about 7 million me/year for all
uses and will increase to 9 million m3/year with the optimization project.
APC is at present capable of obtaining sufficient fresh water for 1.6 million
tpy of potash production from local wadis and shallow aquifers. Upon the
Bank's recommendation consultants3 were commissioned to identify the potential
]/ Alexander Gibb & Partners (Gibb) and the UK Institute of Hydrology. See Project
File for their report.



- 15 -
water supply options for APC at production levels up to 2.2 million tpy of
potash; their December 1990 report suggested potential sources of both fresh
and brackish water but indicated competing usages for the local water
resources. APC has carried out a program of test-well drilling and conducted
pump and water quality testing in the area to define the existing shallow well
fields and explore deeper aquifers. Fresh water is required for certain
usages, but poorer quality water can be used to meet 65-801 of APC's needs.
Because of limited fresh water availability and competing uses (irrigation and
domestic needs), APC has tested the deeper aquifers in the area. Certain deep
wells closer to the plant were productive, but the water was unsuitable for
process use (50,000 ppm of total dissolved solids). More recent deep drilling
at the Dhira area, some 20 kms North of Safi, will allow artesian flow. Water
from this well is of suitable quality for process use (1,500-9,000 ppm. of
total dissolved solids). The proposed strategy for the initial development of
brackish water supplies from the Dhira area will consist of a 20 inch diameter
borehole to provide 2 million m3/year of water, in addition to the existing 7
inch test well with a flow at nearly 0.5 million m3/year. A 20 inch diameter,
gravity flow pipeline would be constructed to deliver the water 20 kms to the
potash refinery. Agreement was reached with GOJ that it would assist APC in
acquiring all rights in respect of land as and when required for construction
of a water conveyance from Dhira to the refinery (para. 7.01 (c)). Agreement
was reached with APC that it would, as a condition of effectiveness, acquire
all rights with respect of water needed for the Project (para. 7.03 (i)).
Other headworks facilities at Dhira would be provided, along with
modifications to utilize the existing Safi reservoir for brackish water
storage and a new 12,000 me covered tank for freshwater. The cost of the
pipeline and water storage is estimated to amount to US$5.6 million
equivalent. Additional drilling is programmed to locate closer sources of
acceptable water quality.
4.07        The Project, located on the southern end of the Dead Sep, includes
a dike system for the evaporation pens which runs along the 1949 Truce Line
between Jordan and Israel. The proposed optimization of APC's refinery is
attributable, in large part, to improvements in technology. The existing dike
system for the evaporation pans will not be enlarged, and any increase in the
consumption of Dead Sea brine is minimal. The Project falls within the
exception to notification requirements contained in paragraph 8 or OD 7.50
concerning Projects on International Waterways, which exempts additions or
alterations to existing works or ongoing schemes from the requirement for
notification if in the Bank's judgement such projects will not adversely
change the quality or quantity of water flows to other riparians and such
projects will not be adversely affected by the use of water that other
riparians might make.
3. Environmental Considerations
4.08        The Bank has placed the Project in its "Environmental Screering
Category B", consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive No. 4.00.
The potash optimization project does not, therefore, require the preparation
of an environmental assessment; a detailed review of potential water



- 16 -
requirements and proposals for improvements in plant procedures concerning the
collection and disposal of wastes were included in the feasibility study and
have been incorporated in the project design. In the event of projects
materializing as a result of the ongoing Dead Sea chemical industries study, a
regional environmental study would be required.
4.09        The CC process is a variant of the existing process and is also
based upon decomposition of carnallite feedstock. The brine is processed
through a two-stage crystallizer system of special design to keep carnallite
saturated at a particular composition with KCL and NaCl. The addition of
precise amounts of water causes the carnallite to dissociate into its
components, KCL and magnesium chloride (MgCl2). This is then processed
through various stages of equipment up to centrifuging and drying of the
product particles. The waste stream containing soluble MgCl2, along with
NaCl, is returned to the Dead Sea from where it came. The saturated NaCl
tailings are sent to a stack close to the waste channel and become cemented
into a hard mass. There has been no evidence of any penetration of salt from
the stack into underlying ground-water.
4.10        Environmental problems of significance at the site are not
evident. It can be expected however that some minor proportional increase in
the level of atmospheric emissions, product transport, vehicle maintenance and
fugitive dust will result. APC is seeking to control the fugitive dust since
this is a nuisance during loading operations, particularly in the warehouse,
requiring workers in the area to wear filter masks. The dust, however,
consists of about 98% KCI and 2% NaCl, which chemically do not constitute a
health hazard.  APC is acquiring flue gas meters to monitor the stack
emissions from the two existing boilers and the product dryer.  The fuel oil
used typically has a sulfur content of 2.5-3.0% and magnesium oxide is added
to reduce pollutants in the flue gases. The plant will not need further steam
raising capacity but a product dryer will be added. The meteorological
attributes of the Dead Sea air basin, however, are favorable for the
dispersion of any air contaminants. The valley is very large, winds are
constant and humidity is low. - The township sewage treatment plant was
designed for a population of 3,Onn -esidents and is thus sufficient for the
proposed additional workforce and their families. The system is designed for
a biochemical oxygen demand load of 165 kg/day, using the activated sludge
process. - With regard to the handling of waste oil at the vehicle
maintenance shop and minor oil spillages at the fuel storage transfer points,
the procedure for waste oil disposal is to return the material by tank truck
to the Zarqa refinery for reprocessing or usage as boiler fuel. This
procedure is not being followed at all times, but this does not constitute a
significant problem.
4.  Markets and Marketing
4.11        As stated earlier, APC's full production is exported to markets
mainly in the South and East Asian regions which have grown at rates faster
than observed in other parts of the world, and where relatively strong demand
growth is forecast to continue. AnmexlXX, which contains an overview of the



- 17 -
world potash market and APC's position in it, concludes that the incremental
production resulting from the optimization project would be placed without
difficulty in these and other markets due to the competitive advantage which
APC enjoys there vis-a-vis other world producers, in terms of both production
and freight cost. According to our market projections, about 60% of
incremental world potash demand is expected to occur in these Asian regions
where APC commands a nearly 20% market share. To maintain this position, APC
needs to increase its production; placement of the incremental output by the
optimization project would therefore represent no difficulty. APC's marketing
organization has been built up in the course of six years and is equipped with
experienced staff and well managed.  The Company has established close
relations with its customers in more than a dozen countries, the principal of
these being located in India, China, Indonesia and Korea which in 1990
absorbed nearly 70% of APC's sales.  About 60% of APC's world-wide sales are
under long term arrangements.  These have been advantageous to APC in terms of
prices achieved which were higher than spot market prices in recent years.
APC has followed sound marke: .ig principles rather than applying price
concessions, a policy which the "3mpany intends to continue.
5.  Desd Sea Chemical Industries Advisory Services
4.12        The development of industries to utilize the salts and minerals
contained in the brine of the Dead Sea has been one of GOJ's developmental
priorities. Installation of APC's solar evaporation ponds and potash refinery
was the first phase of a process to create an important source of export
revenue for Jordan. With the desire to further increase natural-resource-
based export revenue, preliminary investigations have been undertaken to
determine the viability of using residues from the potash operation as the
source for other exportable chemical products derived principally from sodium
chloride, magnesium bromide and magnesium chloride. Final products could
include fertilizer, detergent ingredients, bleaching agents, fumigants,
polyvinyl chloride, pharmaceuticals, and products used in the manufacture of
glass and refractory bricks.  An overall appraisal of the prospe;cts for such a
scheme or schemes was conducted in 1988 by the U.S. consulting firm Fluor
Daniel, recommending further studies to determine the technical and economic
viability of a number of plants to be called collectively the Dead Sea
Chemicals Complex. Such plants would complement each other and, if proven
economically viable, would be built as groups in discrete phases.
4.13        With grants totalling US$2.3 million obtained by GOJ from regional
government institutions in 19884, APC in May 1990 concluded agreements with
three foreign consulting firms and a Jordanian firm to conduct detailed
studies as a first step towards developirg and implementing such projects.
During their preparatory phase, the Bank a6sisted GOJ in developing terms of
reference. The studies are being conducted in two stages. The first of these
4/ Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development, and IsDB.



- 18 ^
is underway and consists of a preliminary survey of the availability of raw
materials and other inputs for the principal plants under consideration, the
availability of technology to be used, potential markets for the products, the
competitive situation, and the overall economics. Based on the conclusions of
this first stage, expected later in 1991, APC with assistance to be provided
by the Bank, would determine the extent to which undertaking the detailed
studies of the viability of each plant is justified. Such studies would then
be commissioned under the second stage, expected to be completed in 1992.
Based on the completed feasibility studies, APC would then begin to look for
partners and other sources of funds for implementing any of the projects which
were determined to be technically viable and economically attractive. The
investments required cannot be estimated before the first stage is completed
but could be in excess of US$1 billion. GOJ and APC expect that funding from
the World Bank Group would be sought in support of the implementation of these
projects, and to attract suitable cofinancing.
4.14        There are several important issues which are being addressed by
the ongoing studies. The first concerns the availability for industrial
purposes of sufficient quantities of fresh and process water for the chemical
plants. Another concerns the mode of utilization of by-products from some of
the proposed chemical processes: if they cannot be used, their disposition
could become prohibitively costly. A third issue relates to the world market
for chlorine-based products, currently in decline because of environmental
considerations worldwide.  Plant locations will depend, inter alia, on the
availability of energy, water, and the possibilities for dealing with wastes.
4.15        Apart from the assistance to APC in overseeing the ongoing
studies, the Bank's role would consist firstly in reviewing and commenting on
the studies as they are progressing, and secondly, in funding consultants to
be used by APC in its own preparatory work for the project. The Bank's
continued involvement in this project is desired by GOJ and APC as a reliable
source of impartial know-how. It would also ensure that the Bank and/or IFC
would be in a position to consider their own possible involvement, once the
viability of any of the proposed chemical plants has been determined.
4.16        The consultancy advisory services; required by APC to evaluate the
results of the studies are estimated to cost US$150,000, of which US$100,000
would be in foreign exchange; this latter amount would be funded under the
Project and is expected to be required in the remainder of 1991 and 1992.
This assistance is justified by GOJ's desire for the Bank's continued
involvement in the sector which is potentially highly beneficial in terms of
increased export revenue and the transfer of technology.
C. Prolect Cost and Financing
4.17        The capital cost estimate of the Project (in US$ and JD) is shown
in detail on Annex III. The installed cost of the optimization project is
estimated at JD68.8 million (US$102.6 million equivalent), including physical
and price contingencies, as summarized in Table 4.1. The base cost estimate
presented in mid-1990 prices was derived from the JII Feasibility Study (see



. 19 -
Project File) completed to Lhe Bank's satisfaction in December 1990. The
physical contingency provision, estimated by JII at 5%, Appeared inadequate
and was increased to 10%. The JII base cost estimate, which was assigned an
accuracy rating of +5%/-10X, is based upon budget quotations from vendors used
in APC's previous projects and other relevant vendors familiar to JII and is
acceptable; such solicitations, overall, have been supported by availability
of the preliminary equipment specifications. Based on the plot-plans,
quantity take-offs were prepared for site earthworks, site improvements,
buildings and civil works and steelwork structures. Similarly, take-offs for
bulk materials (such as piping, instrumentation and electrical) were made from
the process and instrument/electrical diagrams, already at an advanced stage.
Adequate allowance was made for packing and CIF costs. Equipment imports are
exempt from customs duty. Provisions for labor and installation rates are
based on JII's in-house estimating data, combined with APC's recent experience
in the Second Arab Potash Project and its continual dealing with local
contractors. Recent order purchase prices for the product haul-trucks were
supplied by APC. In addition, APC provided the cost estimate for the Aqaba
potash loading conveyor; the fresh-water expansion system was priced by Gibb.
Actual costs for the solar pan modifications to the dikes wera used.
4.18        Price escalation has been calculated by the appraisal team on the
basis of the revised implementation schedule as described in para 4.28.
Projected local and international inflation rates used are as follows;
domestic: 10.1% for 1991, 9.9% for 1992, 9.1% for 1993, and 8.3% for 1994;
international: 3.4% throughout the project period.
4.19        When adding to the installed cost the related estimates for pre-
operating costs, incremental working capital and interest during construction,
as well as the cost of the chemical industries advisory services, the total
financial requirements for the Project are estimated at JD81.2 million
(including JD65.0 million equivalent in foreign exchange).
Table 4.1: Cost Estimates
Foreign in
Lcal    goreiian    Total    Local    Foreisn    otal X of Ital
-- JDOOO -                      USA 000
Equipment, Material and Spares   2,312    36,448    38,760  3,452    54,400   57,852   94
Design and Engineering Services    -  2,831   2,831       -      4,225    4,225   103
Project Management          -        772       772        -      1,153    1,153  100
Construction Management   1,062     1,595     2,657     1,586    2,380    3,966   60
Civil Works and Buildings   921     2,708     3,629     1,375    4,042    5,417   74
Infrastructure             215       858      1,073      320     1,281    1,601   81
Erection & Commissioning    590     6,028     6,618      880     8,997    9,877   91
Consultancy Services        33    _  67        100        50       100      150   50
Bass gsat                 5,133    51,307    56,440     7,663    76,578   84,241   91
Physical Contingencies (101)  510   5,124     5,634      761     7,648    8,409   90
Price Contingencies       1.134     5,648    6.782    1.891    8.429   10.120   83
Installed Cost            6,777    62,079    68,856    10,115    92,655   102,770   90
Pre-operating Costs, Working
Capital, Interest During
Construction              9.497    2.888    12.385    14.175    4.310   18.48S   24
PinancinA Reauired       16,274    64,967    81,241    24,290    96,965   121,255   80



- 20 -
4.20        2&ble 4.2 presents the financing plan for O%e Project.  As stated
in Chapter V, APC's cash generation until completion of the Project is
projected to be adequate to cover Project and other financial requirements
beyond the amounts proposed to be provided by the Bank (US$15 million) and tne
IsDB (US$16 million).
Table 4.2
Financinx Plan
n2L    ESMW        IP-toX   JtcL2    ELQEA8n    Total
------- JD'000 -------- -   ----------- US$'000 -
APC Internal Cash Genoration  16,274   44,197    60,471  24,290   65,965   90,255
World Bank Loon               -      10,050    10,050      -      15,000   15,000
Islamic Development Bank Loan  -     10.720    1720              16.000   16.000
Total Financina        16,274   64,967    81,241    24,290   96,965   121,255
4.21        The proposed Bank loan, which would cover 12.4% of the Project's
total financial requirements, Is estimated to carry interest at 7.7%, the
standard variable rate currently in effect. The loan would be made to APC for
17 years, including a 5-year grace period, and would be guaranteed by GOJ.
APC would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks and pay GOJ a
guarantee fee of 0.8% per year which would raise APC's cost of the loan to
8.5% at present rates, a level similar to the cost APC would incur if a
similar amount were borrowed in international markets in the currencies of the
US, Germany and Japan, the principal elements in the Bank's currency
management system.3 Agreement was reached with the GOJ that it would charge
APC a guarantee fee of 0.8% on the amount disbursed and outstanding under the
proposed Bank loan (para. 7.01 (d)). Concerning the IsDB loan which was
approved by its Board of Executive Directors on March 31, 1991, this is
assumed to be repaid over six years following project completion and to carry
interest at 8%. Signature of the IsDB loan would be a condition of
effect;iveness for the proposed Bank loan (para. 7.03 (ii)).
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.22        Procurement.  During the first project, APC was assisted by its
engineering consultants in procuring all off-shore packages, utilizing ICB and
other methods acceptable to the Bank. For the Second Arab Potash Project, APC
managed procurement without outside assistance and is now familiar with the
Bank's guidelines and procedures for procurement. The Company has developed a
satisfactory procurement plan for the Project which is reflected in Table 4.3.
2/ It is estimated that APC would be able to borrow at 0.75% above LIBOR rates. As
of early March 1991, these were quoted at 7%, 9% and 7.5%, respectivuly for the
US$, DM and Yen.  Giving a weight of one-third to each of these, plus the above
premium, APC's weighted cost of borrowing would be equivalent to about 8.5%.



- 21 -
APC, together with JII, is therefore considered to be adequately equipped and
experienced to implement this plan.
4.23        The following items, to be procured under ICB procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, would be financed from the
proposed Bank loan proceeds. They are (i) high efficiency centrifuges for de-
watering the crystalline potash product (US$3.7 million), (ii) equipment and
materials for the fresh water expansion scheme and thickener mechanisms
(US$3.6 million and US$1.8 million, respectively), and (iii) six other CC
process equipment packages (US$5.8 million). In total, nine contracts will
need to be reviewed by the Bank. A small amount (US$100,000) would be applied
to the consultant advisory services for the Dead Sea Chemical Industries Study
following Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultant Services (August 1981).
Procurement documents for all Bank financed equipment and services will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.
Table 4.3
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) A/
Project Elements                                  Procurement Methods       Total
ICB        LIB      Other   Costs
Crystallizers                                      -          -        9.30      9.30
Other Cold Crystallization Plant Equip.ment      24.49                   -      24.49
(12.00)                        (12.00)
Support Equipment and Bulk Materials             28.55        -          -      28.55
Solar Pan Pumps and Carnallite Harvester          1.90      6.24         -       8.14
Additional 50-ton Product Trucks                   -          -        2.34      2.34
Site Earthworks, Improvements and Buili-.ngs      8.38        -          -       8.38
Construction and Start-up Services                8.49        -          -       8.49
Fresh-water Expansion                             7.32        -          -       7.32
(2.90)                         (2.90)
Engineering and Other Consultancy Services         -          -        5.61      5.61
-    -        ~~~(.10)   (.10)
Totals                                   79.13      6.24     17.25    102.62
(14.90)      .        ( .10)   (15.00)
A/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan.



- 22 -
4.24        Financing from the IsDB loan would be applied for the
procurement of an additional harvester, solar pan pumps and support equipment,
through parallel funding and under LIB procedures as proposed by APC; this is
considered appropriate. The crystallizers (US$9.3 million), for which the
design is proprietary and availabl only from Swenson Process Equipment Inc.
(USA) and its UK licensee, Wellman, will be procured by APC using its own
resources. - Product from APC's potash plant is transported to Aqaba by a
fleet of over seventy specialized vehicles, all supplied by Mack Trucks of the
USA. The Project will require the addition of 13 such vehicles to
handle the increased output of potash, at a cost of US$2.3 million. These
will be procured from Mack Trucks in the interest of standardization, and be
financed by APC. All remaining procurement by APC will follow ICB procedures.
4.25        Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan would be made against lOOX
of the foreign cost of directly imported goods. Disbursements would be made
against full documentation, except for purchases of less than US$100,000
equivalent, for which statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures would apply
and where APC would retain the necessary supporting documentation. Payments
against SOE are estimated to total US$1.0 million equivalent. To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established for APC in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million.
Retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million under the proposed Bank loan is
recommended for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1991.
4.26        The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan,
calling for start-up of commercial operations by January 1995 and for full
disbursement by December 1995, is provided in Annex IV. The profile for the
Project is somewhat shorter than the Bank's regional disbursement profile for
industry; the latter reflects mainly greenfield projects and thus would
estimate Project disbursements to be completed only by end-1996. The shorter
profile estimated by the appraisal team is justified by the following: (i)
the Project's construction will be integral with the existing facilities and
not subject to the delays usually related to a greenfield site; (ii) the
Project feasibility study and preliminary design basis have been completed and
JII have begun detailed engineering activities; (iii) the consultants are
fully familiar with the technical aspects and working with APC; (iv) Bank
financing will be limited to less than ten contracts for individual equipment
items; (v) disbursement of the loan for APC's first project, in a remote
location and harsh environment without infrastructure, was completed on
schedule and as planned at appraisal; (vi) the loan for the Second Arab Potash
Project is almost fully disbursed, a year ahead of the closing date of June
30, 1992, and the project is virtually completed and fully operational; and
(vii) APC has demonstrated its ability under the earlier projects to process
contract invoices expeditiously.
E.  ProJect Organization and Management
4.27        With the assistance of its consultants, JII, APC will be in charge
of managing and implementing the optimization project as well as the studies
to develop the Dead Sea chemical industries. APC is well equipped for these



- 23 -
tasks in view of its past project implementation experience. Project
management activities will be coordinated through senior technical staff of
APC, which is at present selecting experienced engiFAeers of different
disciplines, project cost accountants, and controllers of scheduling from
APC's Projects Department, to form the nucleus of a management team under the
manager of that department, and to whom the manager of the JII project group
will report. Most of the APC staff involved have performed similar roles
during execution of the first and second potash projects. Implementation of
the Project will also benefit from JII's experience on APC's earlier projects.
The basic and detailed design and procurement activities are planned to start
in 1991 and to be completed and accepted by the second quarter of 1992. At
that point, when the construction contract(s) should Le negotiated and
awarded, APC's project team is expected to provide half of the workforce
during site supervision of construction.
4.28        According to the implementation schedule shown in   nx V which
APC proposes to follow, the optimization project would be mechanically
completed in December 1983, and commercial operations would commence in April
1994. In view of the Company's positive experience with its earlier projects,
this tight schedule is considered achievable. Agreement was reached with APC
that it would (i) retain consultants satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose
of engineering, procurement and project supervision, and (ii) adhere to the
schedule mentioned above (para. 7.02 (b)).
4.29        In the interest of prudence in projecting costs and cash flow, and
to provide for an added margin of safety, construction of the optimization
project is estimated by the appraisal team to be completed early in the second
quarter of 1994, followed by a three-month period for pre-commissioning and by
commissioning of the facilities over the period to end-December, 1994, when
the plant would be ready for commercial operation.
4.30        The first stage studies for the Dead Sea Chemicals Complex are
currently being undertaken by three well qualified international firms, in
cooperation with a Jordanian consulting firm and under close supervision by
APC, to be assisted by consultants to be funded under the proposed Bank loan
(para. 4.13). Agreement was reached with APC that qualified and experienced
consultants would be hired in consultation with the Bank to provide these
advisory services (para. 7.02 (c)).
4.31        Two Bank supervision missions per year during the five years of
implementation (July 1991 through December 1995) would suffice to supervise
all activities. The missions would be staffed by an engineer and a financial
analyst, who would be responsible for all economic, engineering and financial
aspects (Annex VI). At an average cost of US$7,500 per staff member per
mission, excluding Bank salaries and overhead, the total cost for supervision
(16 staff member missions) would be about US$120,000.



- 24 -
V. EINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. APC Financill Position and Performance
5.01        APC currently has a fully paid-in capital of JD72.5 million
(US$108.2 million equivalent). As a result of retained prior years' earnings,
its total equity at year-end 1990 is estimated at JDl1O million (US$164.2
million equivalent). Its principal shareholders are GOJ (56.72), Arab Mining
Company (22.8%), IsDB (5.52), the Government of Iraq (5.,X), the Governments
of Libya and Kuwait (4.32 each), the Government of Saudi Arabia (0.4%), and
the Jordan Post Office Savings Fund and private shareholders (0.8%). APC's
summarized audited financial statements for the years 1985 to 1989 and an
estimate for 1990 are shown in Annex VII. Highlights are provided in Table
5.1, showing that APC's results and its financial position have been improving
steadily over the years under review, to a point where its financial position
at the present is sound and can be relied upon to substantially support the
financing of the Project.
Table 5.1
APC - Summary of 1inancial Statements (1985-1990)
(JD million)
----- Audited                 ----Estimated
1985     19861 1987  .12i        1989    1990
Current Assets                      17.4     20.1    21.0   32.1    73.0    97.3
Net Fixed and Other Assets         123.8    114.3   105.6  100.7   112.8   106.6
Current Liabilities                 26.0     33.6    23.5   25.0    23.8    30.9
Net Long-Term Debt                  81.4     71.6    74.8   68.8    80.7    62.1
Equity                              34.5     30.4    31.6   40.3    80.9   110.0
Revenues                            29.1     30.1    31.2   49.7    86.1    93.1
Net Income (Loss)                   (6.5)    (4.9)   (3.9)   6.8    41.5    40.9
Total Cash Generation               13.3     13.6    15.2   25.7    60.3    55.7
Long-Term DebtS to Equity Ratio   70:30    70:30   70:30  63:37  50:50   37:63
Current Ratio                        0.7      0.6      0.9    1.3     3.1      3.1
Debt Service Ratio                   0.8      0.8      0.9    1.1      1.9     1.9
la Including quasi-equity.
B. Projections
5.02        The financial projections and detailed assumptions for the Project
are presented in Annex VIII; they are calculated in constant JD of 1990. As
shown in Annex IX, the base case financial pre-income-tax rate of return in
constant terms, based on the comparison between APC's projected cash flows
with and without the Project, is estimated at 13X.



- 25
5.03        Revenue projections are based on realistic assumptions by the
appraisal team of future international potash prices. As shown in Table 5.2,
and reflecting the uncertainties due to current world market conditions, price
projections used in the analysis are about 4.5X below those assumed by the
Bank's International Trade Division as of January 1991. At the same time, the
assumed 1991 base price is also 2.5% lower than the actual average sales price
obtained by APC for its product in 1990. Potash prices are projected to
increase only slightly from their present level. - Commercial production
resulting from the Project is assumed to begin in January 1995 (para. 4.29),
at an initial level of 333,000 tpy, reaching 400,000 tpy of potash in 1997
which corresponds to the incremental facilities' design capacity operating at
313 days per year; this level is considered to be realistic, given APC's high
production levels achieved in its existing operations. Concerning production
and operating costs, these were projected on the basis of historical data,
adjusted for changes in the technology used in the new facilities. The cost
of labor is assured to increase at an annual rate of 3X in real terms to
reflect anticipated increases in wages as a result of productivity
improvements. Energy costs in production and transportation were assumed at
international levels, except for power, which were assumed to remain at the
current price level (JD 0.035/kwh), which is slightly higher than the long-
run marginal cost (JD 0.028/kwh). Table 5.3 provides key parameters of the
projections.
Table 5.2
APC - Potash Price Projections
(constant US$ of 1990 per ton)
Actual     ----- Projected --
1990     11                 2000
APC Average Sales Price
(FOB Aqaba)                         92.30       --                -
IBRD Commodity Price Projection
(FOB Vancouver)                       -       94.20    106.00  106.00
Project Appraisal Projection
(FOB Aqaba)                                   90.00    103.40  103.60
5.04        Table 5.3 indicates that APC's financial condition is projected to
be sound and that the Company should have no difficvlty in servicing its
existing and new debt. The accumulation of "excess cash" (carried over from
1990 and decreased by cash requirements up to 1993) sLown in the projections
is assumed to earn interest at a rate of about 8X;    interest is assumed to
be earned on surplus cash projected to accumulate fi   1995 onwards.  Excess
cash is to be available for ongoing investments (such as for equipment
replacement and the mandatory acquisition from GOJ of the Aqaba potash storage
facilities), for the Project, as well as for unrelated future investments.
5.05        In line with the financing plan (para. 4.20), 741 of the financial
requirements of the Project, as well as all future investments required to



- 26 -
maintain the facilities in operation, are projected to be financed from APCs
Internal cash generation. APC will maintain a conservative leverage, with the
long-term-debt-to-equity ratio expected to remain below 23:77. Also, APC's
debt service coverage and its current ratio are projected to remain adequate
with implementation of the Project. APC's profitability will continue to be
satisfactory.
kable-5.3
APC. - Smmary of Projected Financi&l Permormance
(constant JD mIllions)
Actual    ----- Projected -
1990      1995I   1997   2000
Sales Volume (million tpy)          1.4     1.7       1.8     1.8
Revenues                           93.1   115.2    121.3   121.5
Cost of Goods Sold                 24.9    47.3      51.3    55.4
Operating Profit                   54.1    48.4      49.0    43.4
Income Tax                          -      17.1      15.9    16.7
Net Income                         40.9    29.1      31.9    27.3
Internal Cash Generation           55.7    51.7     55.5    52.7
Total Net Fixed Assets            106.6   197.8    191.8   176.4
Net Long Term Debt La              62.1    37.6      23.3    10.2
EquLty                            110.0   197.2    235.0   288.3
Debt Servlce Coverage Ratio         1.9     4.8       5.7     8.6
Current Ratio                       3.1     2.9       2.9     3.4
Long Term DebttI to Equity Ratio  36:64   16:84      9:91    3:97
Zg  includlng quasi-equity of JD8.8 million in 1990.
C. Cornants and Report ma
5.06        hA&eament was reached with APC that it would continue to follow
prudent administrative, financial and industrial practices. In line with the
covenants observed by APC under the Second Arab Potash Project, APC would (i)
maintain a long-term-debt-to-equity ratio below 60:40; (ii) maintain a current
ratio above 1.4; (iii) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of no less than
1.3; (iv) consult with the Bank prior to undertaking capital investments
outside of the Project in excess of US$8 million in any fiscal year; (v)
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, by December 31, 1992, its
strategy proposed for mobilization of additional equity resources,
particularly from the private sector, to meet the requirements of its future
lnvestment programs; (vi) continue to submit to the Bank quarterly progress
reports during project implementation and annually thereafter during the life
of the proposed loan; and (vii) prepare and submit to the Bank within four



- 27 -
months after Project completion, a completion report dealing with its
experience during Project implementation and initial operations, and a
reassessment of the Project's costs and benefits (para. 7.02 (a), (d), (e),
and (f)).
5.07        With regard to auditing, &4Em=  was reached with APC that it
would continue to have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and to submit audited reports within six months from
the end of each fiscal year, including on any special account maintained under
the proposed loan and withdrawals under statement-of-expenditure procedures
(7.02 (g)).
5.08        Furthermore, a&reement was reached with GOJ that it would (i)
formulate and transmit, by June 30, 1993, to the Bank for exchange of views, a
strategy for the privatization of APC (para. 7.01 (a)); and (ii) allow APC to
retain from its foreign exchange revenues the amounts sufficient to satisfy
foreign exchange requirements to cover its needs for the Project and other
essential investments, its operational imports and its foreign debt service
(para. 7.01 (e)).
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.01        Since the projections of APC's revenues and inputs in the
financial analysis (see Chapter V) are based largely on international values,
and since the cost of the type of domestic labor used by APC is in line with
international levels and shadow rates are not used, the economic analysis
differs from the financial analysis only for (i) the effect of taxation; and
(ii) the method of calculating working capital.@
6.02        As shown on Annex  , the Project economic rate of return (ERR) at
17X is projected to be attractive. Sensitivity tests were carried out for
several scenarios. These are summarized in Table 6.1 which shows that, when
assuming an implementation period of 54 months instead of the base case 42
months, the ERR would drop to 14X. If less conservative estimates are used for
potash sales prices (World Bank projected levels), the ERR would rise to 18X,
and if more conservative prices are used (101 decrease from Base Case), the
ERR would drop to 151. If energy costs (fuel oil, diesel oil, power) were to
double from present domestic level.;, the ERR would be at 14X. A 101 decrease
in capacity utilization for the Project facilities (to an annual production of
360,000 tons), would result in an ERR at 151. According to the switching
value analysis, even at a drop in potash prices by 251, the ERR would still be
101. Similarly, capital costs could rise by 591, or the capacity utilization
fi/ In the economic analysis, only receivables and inventories are included in
working capital projections.



- 28
of the new facilities could drop to 70X, for the 10% ERR level to be
approached. The risk for any of these eventualities to happen is considered
small. In the event that potash prices drop 10% below our conservative
assumption, the effect on APC's profitability as a whole would obviously be
serious. However, APC could sustain such extreme conditions for some time
without unduly jeopardizing implementation of the Project.
Table 6.1
SensitivitZ Analvsis
Rate of Return
a. Base Case                                                                   17%
b. Sensitivity Tests
-Project Implementation Period:54 months (instead of 42 months)             14%
-Potash Sales prices: (i) at World Bank projected levels                    18%
(ii) down 10% from Base Case                        15%
-Installed Cost up 10%                                                      16%
-Capacity Utilization down by 10% (Project facilities only)                 16%
-Energy Costs up by 100%                                                    14%
-Combination of 10% sales price reduction and 100% energy
cost increase                                                              11%
c. Switching Value Analysis (non-cumulative)
Economic Rate of Return                          17% (Base Casel    15%
-Sales Price (US$ in 1991)                           90.00          82.80    67.50
-Installed Cost (US$ million)                        102.6         117.0    163.2
-Capacity Utilization Rate (% at 313 days/year)   100               87        70
B. Benefits and Risks
6.03        The Project is expected to generate substantial benefits for the
Jordanian economy. It is estimated that incremental gross foreign exchange
earnings over a ten year period after startup will total US$399 million. If
netted out for incremental direct and indirect foreign currency expenditures
(mainly for imported fuel oil, diesel oil, spare parts, maintenance materials
and supplies) and debt service, the net foreign exchange earnings over this
period would total US$306 million. The Project would also have beneficial
non-quantifiable institution-building effects by adding to the expertise of
APC's engineering and operating capabilities by virtue of (i) the introduction
of a new potash refining technology, and (ii) their involvement in developing
new chemical industries. In addition, the two strategy studies to be prepared
under the project, for the privatization of APC and for the mobilization of
additional equity funding, would lay the foundation for helping to generate
private sector savings and for financing future potash industry expansion.



- 29 -
6.04        The economic risks of the Project are limited.  As described
earlier, APC is well established in international potash markets and is among
the lowest-cost producers in the world; therefore, no difficulties are
foreseen in selling its increased production at the realistically projected
prices. As the sensitivity analysis shows, sales prices would have to drop
drastically below the appraisal team's conservative assumptions in order for
the Project to approach its break-even point in terms of cash or total cost,
or for APC's viability to be jeopardized. The probability of prices declining
to that extent is considered marginal. Given the extensive experience APC has
in implementing earlier projects, and also the positive experience already
gained with the pilot operation for the new CC and flotation technologies, the
risk of substantial delay in project completion is considered low.
6.05        Given its low cost structure in comparison with that of other
international potash producers and its favorable location vis-a-vis major
growing Asian markets, APC is highly competitive. With its projected strong
financial situation, APC's cash generation would enable it to service existing
and Project-related debt and to contribute three quarters of the funding
needed for the Project. The Company is well run by capable and experienced
managers and staff. The cold-crystallization technology to be used although
relatively new to APC, has been well tested, including in the Saf' pilot plant
which has been in successful operation since early 1989. Project risks for
this component are therefore limited.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATION
7.01         Agreements were reached with the Government that it would:
(a)   furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1993, for exchange of
views, a strategy for the privatization of APC (paras. 3.07
and 5.08 (i));
(b)   cause the Jordan Electricity Authority and the Jordan
Petroleum Refinery, respectively, to provide APC with
adequate and timely supplies of electric power and petroleum
products in order to enable the company to operate its
facilities efficiently (para 4.05);
(c)   assist the Borrower to acquire all rights in respect of land
as and when required for construction of a water conveyance
from Dhira to APC's refinery (para 4.06);
(d)   charge APC a guarantee fee of 0.8% on the amount disbursed
and outstanding under the proposed Bank loan (para. 4.21);
and
(e)   allow APC to retain from its foreign exchange revenues the
amounts sufficient to satisfy foreign exchange requirements
to cover its needs for the Project and other essential



- 30 -
investments, its operational imports and its foreign debt
service (para. 5.08 (ii)).
7.02        Agreements were reached with APC that it would:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, by December
31, 1992, its strategy proposed for the mobilization of
additional equity resources, particularly from the private
sector, to meet the requirements of its future investment
programs (paras. 3.07 and 5.06 (v));
(b)   retain consultants satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose
of engineering, procurement and project supervision and
adhere to the implementation schedule established for the
purpose (para. 4.28);
(c)   hire qualified and experienced consultants in consultation
with the Bank to provide advisory services to the Dead Sea
chemical industries project (para. 4.30);
(d)   follow prudent administrative, financial and industrial
practices and in particular, (i) maintain a long-term-debt-
to-equity ratio below 60:40; (ii) maintain a current ratio
above 1.4; (iii) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of
no less than 1.3; and (iv) consult with the Bank prior to
undertaking capital investments outside of the Project in
excess of US$8 million in any fiscal year (para. 5.06);
(e)   continue to submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
during project implementation and annually thereafter during
the life of the proposed loan (para 5.06);
(f)   prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report within
four months after Project completion (para. 5.06); and
(g)   continue to have its accounts audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and to submit
audited reports within six months from the end of each
fiscal year, including any special account maintained under
the proposed loan and withdrawals under statement-of-
expenditure procedures (para 5.07).
7.03        Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be subject to (i) the
acquisition by APC of all rights with respect to water required for the
ProJect (para 4.06); and (ii) the signature of the IsDB loan (para 4.21).
7.04        Subject to the foregoing, the Project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$15 million equivalent for a term of 17 years, including a grace
period of five years, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 31-                           Annex-X
Page 1 of 6
JORDA - Dead Sea Industrial ExDorts Pro1ect
APC Techcncal Background
1.          Prior to the formation of APC in 1956, potash was being extracted
from the huge mineral reserves of the Dead Sea in two small-scale operations
by solar evaporation to selectively precipitate and har- tst carnallite (a
hydrated compound of potassium and magnesium chlorides, including 16% sodium
chloride) from which the potash fertilizer is produced through a refining
process. The older plant was abandoned in the late 1940s. Production from
the other Dead Sea based potash facility, the Dead Sea Works in Israel, began
in the mid-1950s and initially suffered major problems in design and
construction of the dikes enclosing the evaporation pans, and from
inefficiencies in the carnallite harvesting system; these problems were
eventually overcome and the capacity of this plant has since been considerably
increased.
2.          As an initial development on the Jordanian side of the Dead Sea,
APC commissioned studies in 1960 to investigate the feasibility of potash
production on a larger scale. These studies were subject to detailed review
by leading engineering firms from the USA and the UK. The eventual
recommendation was to construct a plant having a capacity of 1 million tpy,
and project preparations began accordingly. However, at an advanced stage,
project development was interrupted by the hostilities of 1967. The revival
of the potash venture in 1974 arose from GOJ's commissioning an update and
expansion of the previous studies to define the scope and design of the APC
project, to include: (i) studies on Dead Sea brine evaporation rates; (ii)
construction of trial dikes as a basis for design of solar pans; (iii)
development of suitable pan construction techniques; and (iv) a detailed study
of the marketing prospects. The studies and associated field work were
carried out in 1976/77 with financial assistance from IDA (US$1 million
Engineering Credit) and USAID (US$6 million loan). A definitive feasibility
study, recommending a plant design capacity of 1.2 million tpy, was completed
early in 1978 after which the authorities submitted a summary report of the
findings, prepared by the Bank, to a meeting of prospective lenders.
Consequently, APC's shareholders -- GOJ, the majority shareholder then with
51%, other Arab governments (16%) and institutions (32%) and private local
investors (1X% -- authorized a major capital increase to provide an adequate
equity base for implementation of the first project at the above capacity. In
1978, the Bank approved a US$35 million (Loan 1617-JO) for the construction of
the production facility at an estimated total cost of US$429 million, with
other debt from USAID, various Arab funds, commercial loans and deferral of
interest due to GOJ.
3.          This first project had two major components related to potash
production, namely the solar evaporation system (SES), to produce and harvest
carnallite, and the potash refinery (PR). The purpose of the latter is to (i)
decompose carnallite with water, yielding a mixture of potassium and sodium
chlorides (sylvinite) as solids; (ii) process the sylvinite cake by leaching
out potash into solution with hot recycle brine from the crystallization
process, leaving sodium chloride as waste; (iii) crystallize-out the potash
under vacuum controlled cooling; (iv) de-water and dry the potash crystals;
(v) screen the product into four grades; and (vi) compact the fines and/or
standard fractions to meet various market requirements.



- 32 -                           "noX
Page 2 of 6
4.          The SES includes three categories of pans -- salt, pre-carnallite
and carnallite -- used sequentially to increase brine concentration. The
brine intake and pumping stations transfer brine from the Dead Sea to one type
of pan and then to another. The dikes enclose an evaporation area of about
100 sq. kms and are over 60 kms in length, for the most part built on soft mud
and salt beds posing unique design and construction problems; these were
avoided (unlike at the Dead Sea Works) by building trial dikes with
impermeable cross sections and using techniques allowing settlement of the
construction materials in the initial phase before building the dikes to their
full height. Due to the accumulation of precipitated sodium chloride in the
salt pan, the height of the dikes must be raised periodically. Initially, a
deposition of salt in the carnallite pans was necessary to form a solid base
suitable for operation of the harvesters. The carnallite harvesting system
consists of (i) track-propelled harvesting machines equipped with cutter-
heads that traverse along the salt bottoms, thereby ingesting the softer layer
of carnallite above; (ii) on-board pumping equipment to mix carnallite with
brine to form a slurrvr  and (iii) a floating pipeline connected to a fixed on-
shore pipeline through which the slurry is conducted as feedstock to the PR.
The design basis for the PR was derived from proven technology, using a hot-
leach process. The facility consists of many items of process machinery,
equipment and bulk materials, tuostly custom-made to specifications taking into
account the Dead Sea brine characteristics and the conditions under which the
plant operates.
5.          The production site at Safi, close to the SES which occupies all
of the Jordanian side of the Dead Sea area south of the Lisan peninsula, !s
about 50 kms from the nearest town; therefore it was necessary to build a
township, located 20 kms from Safi, to accommodate and provide the necessary
community services for about 2,000 people. The substantial water requirements
for the plant and township are being met from groundwater resources in the
area which are replenished by seasonal flow in the streams adjoining the site.
Electrical power is supplied partly from the national grid and partly by APC's
own steam and power plant. Other non-process facilities consist of (i) the
Safi product warehouse of 60,000 tons storage capacity; (ii) the Aqaba Potash
Terminal for ocean shipment with two warehouses, each of 80,000 tons capacity,
and a two-berth jetty; (iii) a fleet of over sixty trucks, each with 50 t
capacity in double trailers; and (iv) APC's office buildings at Safi and
Amman.
6.          Implementation of APC's first project was a technically complex
undertaking and required intensive coordination between APC, consultants,
engineering contractors and financiers; from the start of construction in 1978
to achieving a production Level close to full design capacity in 1986, APC was
responsible for overall project management. Its staff, however, had little
experience with large-scale construction projects and were too few to perform
all aspects of project planning, supervision and coordination without
substantial assistance. Therefore, APC relied heavily on outside support for
such services which were obtained under contracts with several groups of
consultants. The successful completion of construction, start-up and
operation of the facilities, however, was in large part attributable to the
business sense and drive of APC's management, with able support from the core
staff, and its effective use of consultants. After release of the project,
APC secured four major contracts for (i) design and engineering of the project
facilities, procurement and construction management with a U.S. engineering



- 33 -                 ~~~~Annex I
Page 3 of 6
contractor; (ii) all services relating to civil works, including the entire
SES, the township and water supply system with a U.K. company; (iii) technical
advisory services from the Netherlands in dealing with problems arising during
construction, review of billings and to act generally as part of APC's
technical staff; and (iv) design/installation of an accounting and financial
control system by an international audit/management consultant who prepared
manuals and trained APC's staff in the use of the system. APC also retained
additional consulting assistance in support of operational activities, as
agreed with the Bank, and selected the above engineering contractor to
assemble a group of experts (the operations management team) for directing
various functions of the operation and to work at the Safi site in line
positions and train their APC counterparts.
7.          Commercial production from the first project was delayed by one
year. After salt deposition in the first carnallite pan, the thickness of the
resulting salt bottom was found to be inadequate to support the heavy
prototype harvesting machine; this resulted from brine evaporating at a rate
slower than calculated and observed in the small-scale test pans operated
continuously since 1976. The supplier of the prototype harvester changed the
design to a machine with sufficient buoyancy to exert only limited pressure on
the base of the pan to provide adequate traction. After a number of
modifications proved to be efficient and reliable, four harvesting units were
built and have since been operating successfully.
8.          Production build-up during the first five years of operation (1983
to 1987) amounted to an aggregate of almost 4 million tons of potash; this was
equivalent to 95.6% of the appraisal estimate and a remarkable achievement,
considering the scale and innovative nature of the operation under difficult
conditions. Plant performance improvements were necessary, however, and were
achieved by modifications to the SES and PR during the period 1983 through
1986. Changes to the evaporation pans were made to compensate for the lower
rate of evaporation that had been experimentally observed, and to bring the
different pan systems into balance. Improved refinery performance required
substitution of some items of the plant, due to failures stemming from the
corrosiveness of the Dead Sea brines at elevated temperatures. The SES
improvements were particularly important in eliminating constraints on the
availability of carnallite. Subject to corresponding improvements in the PR
to correct the low conversion efficiency to potash, the potential was then
available for the production at a capacity of 1.4 million tpy.
9.          The Second Arab Potash Project whose concept and scope were
derived largely from several consultancy studies commissioned by APC during
1985/86 was estimated to cost US$26.7 million. The project was appraised in
March 1986 and the Bank agreed to provide US$12 million (Loan 2786-JO);
cofinancing was obtained from the IsDB (loan) and USAID (grant) for US$8.0
equivalent and US$1.5 million, respectively. The Bank loan was signed in
March 1987; the package became effective in July of that year. The project
which is now essentially completed, consists of an investment and a technical
assistance component. The former was to improve production levels, at
relatively low marginal cost, firstly, by ensuring that the initial 1.2
million tpy potash capacity could be reached and reliabiy sustained, which had
been confirmed from the production realized during 1987, and secondly, by
increasing plant capacity to 1.4 million tpy, taking full advantage of the
potential carnallite available from the previous SES optimization



- 34 -                           AnneszI
Page 4 of 6
developments. Due to the sizeable fixed investment already incurred which
resulted in a relatively high break-even unit cost of potash, and givan APC's
low marginal cost of production, this incremental output would yield an
attractive return, even i.- potash prices were not to improve from the
depressed levels at that time. The technical assistance component concerned
studies and medium/long-term research and development programs to identify
means for the optimal use of APC's facilities, given the natural resources
available. This included (in the context of further expansion) pilot-plant-
scale development of the process parameters for the application of cold
crystallization technology within the, PR, in parallel to the existing hot-
leach section. Finally, the project included measures for financial
rehabilitation agreed by the Bank with APC and GOJ for restoring APC's
financial structure and position to healthy levels and broadening the
Company's capital base.
10.         Implementation of the investment component began with a lump-sum
turnkey contract costing US$12 million equivalent, for refinery modifications
to improve performance and efficiency by debottlenecking and changing to a
two-stage decomposition section. This was efficiently executed between
November 1986 and February 1988, and the operational requirements of the works
were fully met by the contractor. A second and complementary expansion
program, at a cost of US$7.7 million equivalent, was executed in parallel,
mainly to (i) rationalize the hot-leach section of the refinery and provide
more stand-by process and utility equipment capacity for operational
flexibility; (ii) increase the pumping capacity of the Dead Sea brine intake
system and deepen the inlet channel; and (iii) increase the rate of water
supply to the refinery and its storage volume. The Bank loan provided
financing toward the PR modifications, the brine intake system, improvements
to the water supply system, the technical studies/research and development
program, and interest during construction.
11.         Revamping of the PR and improvements to the SES were generally
completed according to the proctrement and construction schedules planned and
without major problems. The plant became fully operational during 1988 and
the expected improvements in output were realized through better control of
the process, a substantial increase in potash recovery efficiency (from 67X to
over 80X) and a reduction of 80 t per hour in process water consumption.
Stemming from experience gained through the problems faced during the
construction and operation of the first project, APC has accumulated
considerable expertise in the technology and management of this unique
chemical operation. Moreover, APC's technical capability has been further
strengthened during the first three years of the second project. Execution of
the second project was largely carried out under the control of APC staff, and
the assistance of consultants was relatively limited to specialist services as
needed. The build-up in production has been quite successful, as indicated by
the output tonnages aggregated in Table-1.



- 35 -                        Anx I
Page 5 of 6
Table I
APC - Potash Production
(tons)
Second Arab Potash Project
Ysar         Appraisal Estimates        Actual Output
1988               1,250,000              1,309,630
1989               1,350,000              1,320,440
1990               1.400.000              1.405100
Total   4,000,000              4,035,070
12.         The technical assistance component has been essentially completed.
It was crucial to the planning for further increasing output of potash under
the optimization project, because the existing hot-leach process facilities
are restricted in capacity to not much above the current 1.4 million tpy rate
of production, and the steam available from the plant's cogeneration unit is
already being fully utilized. Further expansion therefore requires that
either, additional steam generation and refinery process plant be constructed,
or a process be utilized for incremental production which does not require
steam. Since the latter option offered considerable economic advantages, APC
commenced work towards developing such a process, named "Cold Crystallization"
(CC), due to the formation of a crystalline potash product similar to that
made by the hot-leaching process but which does not require heat. Such a
process has been in commercial operation elsewhere, producing large quantities
of potash from carnallite. Because the CC plant is much simpler and requires
less equipment, the capital and operating costs per ton of product are greatly
reduced compared to those of an equivalent hot-leaching plant. The effort and
expense of developing such a process was therefore amply justified. In June
1987, APC contracted *tith Wellman Process Engineering Co. (UK) for the design
and equipment supply of the CC pilot-plant, plus technical assistance, to
establish the operating conditions and conduct the necessary process
evaluation test work. The pilot-plant was commissioned at Safi in November
1988 on a carnallite feed steam from the PR and achieved successful results to
date in providing the basic CC process design data in preparation for
definition of the technical specifications of a commercial scale plant. This
provides the technical basis for the optimization project.
13.         For the production of a suitable chemical grade quality of potash
with a commercially acceptable crystal size, it is necessary to provide a feed
stream to the CC process unit which contains at least 95X carnallite, in order
to gain satisfactory potash recovery efficiency. With a lower purity, a
higher proportion of the feed stream would have to be processed by hot-
leaching, thus requiring this section to be in operation at all times when the
CC plant also operated, and it would be burdened with a lower quality feed
than at present. In the case of APC's carnallite production from the SES, the
output is only about 84X pure and the quality of the carnallite deposition
cannot be modified since it is controlled by the composition of the Dead Sea
brine. The harvested carnallite will, therefore, be beneficiated to at least
95% purity before processing by CC technology. This entails separating the
impurities (largely sodium chloride) by a floatation process with the use of
small amounts of chemical reagents. This beneficiation treatment will allow



- 36 -                           Annex I
Page 6 of 6
the new CC unit and the existing hot-leach plant to operate in complete
independence. Since there would be no limitation on the distribution of the
carnallite feedstock between the two process units, the CC unit could be
designed for whichever output offered the greatest economic advantage.
Following technological discussions, APC procured assistance from MDPA
Ingenierie (France), a company experienced in floatation technology
appropriate to beneficiation of carnallite. A contract was awarded to MDPA in
April 1988 to provide the design, equipment, reagents, know-how and certain
preliminary laboratory work to test and install the beneficiation process in
the CC pilot-plant at Safi. This facility is currently providing basic design
data complementary to the CC pilot plant and is working satisfactorily.
14.         In March 1988, APC commissioned a prefeasibility study from Jacobs
International Inc. (Ireland) (JII) to examine the prospects for an
optimization project based on the CC process, by considering three options of
plant capacity, each involving the construction of potash plants in two
stages. The study findings, reviewed and agreed with by the Bank, indicated
that the two larger scale options (2 x 500,000 tpy and 3 x 300,000 tpy) were
unfavorable on economic and operational grounds, and that the preferred means
for expansion should be based upon two plants, each of 400,000 tpy capacity.
The study therefore focussed on this option and particularly the initial
construction of a single unit only, which offers the most attractive financial
and economic return. Resulting from APC-initiated modifications to the SES
and the provision of carnallite from the existing pan no. C-7, it became
possible to produce feedstock carnallite equivalent to 1.8 million tpy of
potash. An expansion based on one 400,000 tpy plant, to provide a total
refinery production capacity of 1.8 million tpy of potash, would therefore
provide a balance between the two operations. This also offers the advantage
of avoiding, as required in the case of the second 400,000 tpy plant, a very
substantial investment in additional solar pans, estimated to cost about US$45
million. To proceed initially with an incremental scale of 800,000 tpy also
would have faced a higher risk at an early stage of being unable to place the
incremental product on the market.
EMW3E
JORANX



- 37 _AnnexII
Page 1 of 8
JORDAN - DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
WORLD POTASH MARKET
I. WORLD REVIEW
A. Potash Demand
1.          About 96% of world potash demand goes to fertilizer use.  The
remaining 4% goes to industrial uses mainly in Western Europe and the USA.
Between 1979/80 and 1989/90 the average yearly world potash demand growth rate
was 1.5 %. In the developing market economies it was 3.3% and in the centrally
planned economies, 3.6%. In the developed market economies, consumption declined
by about 0.8% on average each year. In 1988/89, world potash consumption was 28.0
million t of potassium oxide (K20) compared with 27.3 million t of K20 the
previous year. This represented an increase of about 2.5X which was about half
the rise of the previous year. It had generally been forecast that overall potash
consumption in that year would increase by about 4% but adverse weather
conditions in several regions depressed demand below expectations.
2.          Forecasts of future potash demand were prepared by the World Bank
/FAO/UNIDO /Industry/Fertilizer Working Group in May 1990 and are summarized in
Attachment 1. Members of the Group representing the potash industry include
Canpotex (Canada), Kali und Salz (West Germany) and the International Fertilizer
Industry Association; a representative of the USSR fertilizer industry was also
present at the meeting. The demand projections prepared at this meeting have been
used as a basis for projecting potash fertilizer demand and average annual growth
rates through 2004/05 and these are given in Table 1.
Table 1
Proiected World Potash Fertilizer Consumption
Million Tonnes K20           X Growth Rates
1988/89   1994/95   2004/05    88/89-94/95 88/89-2004/05
Actual      Prolected
Developing Market Economies  11.23    11.59    11.83      0.53    0.33
North America             4.74     5.16     5.50          1.43    0.93
Western Europe            5.51      5.40    5.25         -0.34   -0.30
Oceania                    0.23     0.27    0.31          2.71    1.88
Other Developed            0.75     0.76    0.77          0.22    0.16
Developing Market Economies  4.95  6.09     7.92          3.51    2.98
Africa                    0.29      0.39    0.60          5.06    4.65
Latin America             2.25     2.60     3.30          2.44    2.42
Near East                 0.17     0.23     0.32          5.17    4.03
Far East                   2.24    2.87     3.70          4.22    3.19
Centrally Planned Economies  11.81    11.90    13.20      0.66    1.39
Eastern Europe            lu.08    9.70    10.20         -0.64    0.07
Socialist Asia            1.73     2.20     3.00          4.09    3.50
WORLD TOTAL               27.99    29.58    32.95         0.93    1.02
c'\wpdoc\JornvmH



- 38 -                          mDx I I
Page 2 of 8
3.          Both over the next 5 years and 15 years, world potash fertilizer
demand is expected to increase on average by about 1X per year. There will be
little overall growth in the developed market economies, and Western Europe is
expected to show a small gradual decline in consumption each year. This region
is already a mature market for potash, and with surplus agricultural production
and environmental pressures, the use of fertilizers there is expected to decline.
This also applies to Eastern Europe, as market forces in that region change.
Most increases in potash consumption are expected to take place in the developing
market economies of Asia and Farticularly in Socialist Asia where potash use
historically has been very low. Africa is forecast to grow at the highest rate
although from a very low base. In absolute terms, the largest growth should take
place in the Far East, particularly in the rice growing regions where intensive
farming with high application rates of nitrogen is slowly depleting the potash
content of the soil, increasing the need for potash replenishment. In the next
decade Latin America will also show an average yearly growth rate of about 2.4%
4.          The need for increased potash application in Latin America, the Far
East and Socialist Asia can be seen from Table 2. In these regions, potash use
is very low particularly compared with the developed economies and the world
average. In the  Far East and Socialist Asia there is also an imbalance in
nutrient application with a need to increase potash use in order to obtain the
full benefits of the other nutrients. China in particular has only small potash
Table 2
World Consumption of Fertilizer Nutrients (1987)
Cks per Ba of Arable Land)
Region    World M. America W. Europe E. Europe Lat. America Sao. Asia i!ar East
Nitrogen  51.6  45.3    117.9    58.6    15.4    162.8   39.7
Phosphorus 25.1  18.5    54.6    40.3    13.6     43.5   15.2
Potash    18.7  20.7    57.8    35,9    8.7       12.5    7.6
Total    95.4  84.5    230.3   134.8    37.7     218.8   62.5
Source: FAO Agricultural Handbook 1988
resources and will have to increase potash imports significantly. Industrial
potash demand through this period is expected to grow only marginally and to not
have a significant impact on world markets.
B.  World Potash Reserves. Resources and Cagacity
5.          Potassium is an essential element for both animal and plant growth
and is regarded with nitrogen and phosphate as one of the three main macro
nutrients. The 96X of potassium salts used as fertilizers are generally referred
to as potash. The potassium content is usually expressed on an equivalent
potassium K20, basis which is regarded as an index of the active plant nutrient
contained in the fertilizer. Most grades of potash contain about 602 K20. World
potash reserves are usually expressed in terms of recoverable tons of K20 and
potash fertilizer demand also uses the same nutrient terms. Potash reserves and
resources and current production capacity are given in Table 3, where reserves
refer to potash that is recoverable at current market prices; total resources



- 39 -                         Anne0  tl
Page 3 of 8
include these reserves and also potash that could be recovered at a later date
with existing technology, assuming acceptable market prices. With known reserves
of 17 billion t of K20 and total resources of about 150 billion t, clearly the
world has enough potash to last for many centuries and even millennia.
Table 3
World Potash Reserves. Resources and Ptoduction C9Aiacl&Y
(million t K20)
Country          Reserves           Resources          ProductLn GaDacitl_
1990 Actual  1995 Projected
Canada            10,000             60,000               11.19       11.19
USSR               5,000             50,000               12.88       13.13
Germany D.R.         800              8,000                3.50        3.50
Germany F.R.         500              4,500                2.70        2.70
USA                   300             6,000                1.82        1.82
Brazil               200              1,200                0.15           0
Jordan                100               500                0.84          .96
Israel               100                500                1.38        1.38
China                100              1,000                0.12         .12
Others               200             16.580               2.82         3.30
Total             17,300            148,280               37.40       38.10
Source: Potassium in Agriculture, Atlanta 1985.
6.          It is normal to make supply capability projections on the basis of
existing mine capacity plus projects that will go ahead within the next five
years. In the case of potash, there are several projects world-wide that have
been announced but are not yet sufficiently firm to be included in supply
projections. In any case it seems likely that under present demand projections,
not all of such proposed capacity would be needed. Capacity projections are shown
in Attachment 2.
7.          In the next five years, world potash mine capacity will be innreased
by about 0.8 million t. In the developed market economies, capacity will decline
by about 0.3 million t of K20, mainly in Canada and the USA. Very little change
is expected in the supply potential of Western Europe. Elsewhere, Israel and
Jordan are expected to increase capacity and China will bring on stream a brining
operation to produce about 70,000 tpy K20. A net increase in capacity of more
than 0.7 million t is planned to take place in the USSR. For the longer term,
major projects are being assessed for Manitoba (Canada), Thailand and China
but implementation of any of these projects is not expected until the end of
the 1990's, at the earliest.



-40 -                         Page 4 of 8
C. Ko.1A1Potash &Mly.PaaanLh.1.ojic*
8.          The world and regional potash fertilizer supply demand balances based
on current assumptions are presented in Atacment 3.  The balances show that
North America, mainly through production in Canada, has the largest potash
surplus and Eastern Europe is the second largest surplus region. The main deficit
areas are the Far East, Latin America, Socialist Asia and Africa. Although
Western Europe is both a significant importer and exporter of potash, in overall.
terms it is more or less in balance. The current world surplus of some 3.7
million tpy is expected to decline steadily over the next 5 years as shown in
Eieure I and new potash production capability will be required in the later
1990's.
Fiue 1
WORLD POTASH SUPPLY DEMD BANCES
WLL0ON TONNES KS2
3
2
06869  8800O  90/91  01/92  92/9  93/0  94/98
YEAR
sur0
II.  IN~TIRA,XON&L - 7=R
9.          International potash trade is summarized in Tables 4 And 5, showinig
that part of it is interregional with some potash being imported as a raw
material and then re-exported in the form of nitrogen-phosphate-potash (NWK)
compound fertilizers containing a mixture of nutrients. For many small markets,
particularly those in some developing countries, the needs for potash fertilizer
is often best met in the form of such compounds.
10.         The largest markets for potash fertilizers currently are East Europe,
West Europe and North America that account for nearly 651 of the potash
fertilizer trade. Generally these are mature markets served by local production.
These regions are also major potash exporters. About 35% of potash exports go
into other regions that are basically without significant domestic production
and have to rely on imports to meet their needs. These areas comprise mainly
developing countries whose potash application rates are low but which will have
to increase significantly to meet future food targets.



- 41  -                              Annex  II
Page 5 of 8
Tablo 4
Potash Exoorts (00OO t R20)
1987/88                                1988/89
Country            '000  t K20           X                 '000  t K20             X
Canada               7045             37.7                  6682                36.3
USSR                 3241             17.3                   3558               19.4
German DR            2894             15.5                  2832.               15.4
Germany  FR          1533               8.2                  1308                7.1
Israel              1181                6.3                 1176                 6.4
Jordan                733               3.9                   783                4.2
France                636               3.4                   640                3.5
Others               1435               7.7                 1407                 7.7
Total              18698             100.0                 18386              100.0
Source: FAO Fertilizer Handbook
Table S
Iatemrnatiam Potash Tiswrts
1987S88                1988/89
Region               Country        'OOOt K20       S      'OOOt K20      X
North America                         4318        22.5       4149       21.2
USA              4304       21.1        4136       21.1
Others             14        0.1          13        0.1
Western Europe                        4513        23.5       4676       23,8
France            950        4.9         941        4.8
Italy             500        2,6         532       2.7
Others           3063       16.0        3203       16.3
Oceania                                240         1.3        256        1.3
Other Developed                        792         4.1         664       3.4
Japan             640        3.3         536        2.7
South Africa      152        0.8         128        0.7
Africa                                 330         1.7         324       1.7
Latin America                         2385        12.4       2295       11.7
Brazil           1539        8.0        1312        6,7
Others            846        4.4         983        5.0
Near East                              140         0.7         189       1.0
Far East                              2307        12.0       2617       13.3
India             809        4.2         982        5.0
Korea             399        2.1         414        2.1
Malaysia          450        2.3         510        2.6
Others            649        3.4         711        3.6
East Europe                           2730        14.3       2719       13.9
Poland           1309        6.8        1116        5.7
Czechoslovakia   551         2.9         538        2.7
Hungary           432        2.3         542        2.8
Others            447        2.3         523        2.7
Socialist Asia                        1430         7.4        1721       8.8
China            1367        7.1        1630        8.3
Others             63        0,3          91        0.5
-----------------_---------------------------------------------------__--
World Total                          19197       100.0       19610     100.0
-------_------------FA--D--- F---------i---iz------r---H--andboo-k_----__-
Source: PAO Fortilizor Handbook



-42 -                            rJ"o: 1
Page 6 of 8
11.         As stated earlier, most new potash demand will occur in the regions
of Socialist Asia, the Far East and Latin America. The prospects for these
regions are discussed briefly below.
12.         Sociallst Asia. Much has been written about the nutrient imbalance
in fertilizer application rates and particularly the need to increase potash
fertilizer use in China.  A recent study recommended that in order to meet
agriculcural targets by the year 2000 it will be necessary to increase potash
application rates from their present levels of just over 1 million tpy to more
than 4 million tpy. The same report recognizes that there are only limited
opportunities for domestic production, and so China will have to rely on imports
to meet the greater part of its needs. There is a major project at the planning
stage to produce about 600,000 tpy of K20 by extracting potrsh from the brines
in Lake Qarhan in Qinhai Province, but this is not likely to come into operation
until the second half of the 1990's. It seems unlikely that China will reach its
planned consumption figure by the year 2000 but even assuming that its new
production facilities do come on stream, it will still have to increase its
current imports by about 501 through the year 2000 to 2.5 million tpy.
13.         Far zast. Many developing countries in the Far East have low potash
application rates and will need to improve these to achieve maximum yields of
agricultural crops. Intense rice farming at high nitrogen fertilizer application
rates gradually removes residual potash from the soil, and in the future this
will have to be replaced with potash fertilizers if yields are to be maintained.
More than 201 of new potash demand in the next ten years, equivalent to about
1 million t K20, will be in the major developing countries of the Far East such
as India, Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia etc. At the present time, there is
no production of potash in the region and although there are plb.ns to exploit
potash from large deposits in Thailand, these are unlikely to materialize until
at the earliest the end of the 1990's, because of the very large investment
needs.
14.         Latin America.  Brazil is already the major consumer of potash in
the region and will increase its use still further. Other countries such as
Colombia, Venezuela and Mexico are also likely to see an increased consumption.
Althou3h Brazil has a mining operatior. in Sergipe, there have been many technical
problems and output has not yet met expectations. There are also large deposits
of potash in the Amazon basin as well as in Argentina. The large investment costs
and the existing surplus of potash seem likely to delay exploitation of any of
these deposits before the year 2000. Most future needs in the region before then
will have to be provided by increased imports.
III. PROSPECTS FOR APC
15.         As shown above, the main increase in potash demand will take place
in the Far East, Socialist Asia and to a slightly lesser extent, in Latin
America. About 601 of incremental potash demand will occur in Asia which is the
traditional market for Jordanian potash. Nearly 801 of Jordan's market is already
in Asia where Jordan commands a nearly 201 market share. In order only to
maintain its position, Jordan will need to increase its potash production
significantly. Based on its current market share and trading advantage, APC



- 43 -                          ImSXI
Page 7 of 8
should have no difficulty in obtaining at least 302 and possibly more of the new
incremental demand in these countries. This means that by 1996/97, Jordan will
need to increase its production by 0.4 million t K20 and by 2004/05, by 0.8
million t. Jordan's increased market will therefore be based on acquiring new
sales from increased demand rather than by taking market from other producers.
16.         In order to understand more fully the competitive relationship  of
the major exporters in the growing potash markets, a matrix has been developed
to show and compare the costs of exporting potash from the major producers into
the major markets. Attachment 4. describes the economics of the world potash
trade and shows that matrix. The comparison of total delivered costs show that,
with its low production costs, APC is currently one of the most competitive
producers in the world. In addition, APC has low inland transport costs and
relatively low freight costs to the major potash markets in Asia. It can deliver
potash to the Far East and Socialist Asia cheaper than any other producer with
a cost advantage of US$20-30/t. Israel is also a very competitive producer but
its access to the major Asian markets is limited. APC can also easily compete
cost-wise with other major producers in the markets of Latin America and Western
Surope. Apart from being a low cost producer with a logistical advantage, Jordan
has strong cultural and trade links with many countries in Asia. It has already
developed a successful strategy allowing it to fully utilize the production
capability. This has been done by sound marketing principles rather than through
price concessions and, in fact, the Company has been able to obtain overall a
better-than-average FOB netback price. Attachment 5 provides a description of
APC's existing marketing strategy and provides some thoughts as to this strategy
in the future.
IV. POTASH PRICE TRENDS
A. Historical Price Data
17.         Potash prices are quoted per ton of product.  There are different
prices for various grades. The reference for price comparison is the standard
grade potash, FOB Vancouver. Historical prices are given in Figure 2. Relative
to other fertilizers, potash fertilizer prices have shown much less fluctuation.
This is due mainly to the oligopolistic nature of the potash industry and the
fact that this structure prevents drastic price undercutting. Even so, there
have been some significant swings, particularly in 1975 and 1981, when peak
prices were achieved, and in 1976, 1982 and 1987 when low prices of potash
prevailed. In real terms, potash prices have been trending downwards for more
than thirty years and prices in 1990 are only slightly above the all-time low
reached in 1987 of about US$80/t FOB (in 1990 terms). Although potash sales
suffered badly in the 1989 United States spring season, relatively they fared
much better than nitrogen and phosphate. One probable reason for this was the
constraining of production in Canada. The other is the "Suspension Agreement"
between the US Department of Commerce and the Canadian producers which has
effectively raised the floor level for potash prices in the United States.
18.         International potash prices   weakened in 1990 as a result of
declining demand in Eastern Europe and more Soviet potash being available in the
export market. In July 1990, the mean price for standard grade potash (FOB
Vancouver) was US$93.



hUloZLEn
- 44 -                        Page 8 of 8
Fl8are 2
U9  TONNE
4.1
100
o'
75             60             85              90
YEAR
-  cursnt s     C-. Oont 1990 5
.jS/ I 'CS wh=VER
B. Putuxe Potash Price Trends
19.         Based on a declining surplus it might be expected that potash prices
would show a steady increase. There has been a very large surplus of potash
supply in the world throughout the 1980s, and earlier it looked as if this would
be much reduced by the mid-1990s.  However, the fall in potash demand in Eastern
Europe in the short to medium term is expected to help sustain the surplus
balance and keep prices from rising very fast. Although prices in 1988 offered
a modest profit to most producers after the disastrous year of 1987, they are
still much too low to entice new investments in underground mining projects.
In the medium and longer term, potash prices are expected to improve. Further
significant declines in potash prices are unlikely to be accepted by the major
producers, particularly those in Canada, who have already indicated that they
are prepared to manage production levols in a way to maintain an acceptable price
level. Other factors also point to an increase in prices. At the present time,
the surplus capacity is maintained only in the market economy countries and much
will depend on whether the USSR and East Germany -.:e willing to share the burden
of excess supplies as their own economies become more market driven. In the short
term, this seems unlikely at least in the USSR as surplus production is diverted
to exports, but in the longer term there could be some reduction in Eastern
European exports as the industry restructures.
20.         In order to examine the longer term demand and price trends for
fertilizers in a more systematic way, the World Bank has developed an integrated
agricultural/fertilizer model that is used to derive fertilizer prices. The Bank
now forecasts that potash prices in real terms of 1990 will increase slightly
through the year 2000 from about US$98/t to US$105/t. These price forecasts,
however, were prepared before the full impact of the changes in Eastern Europe
on demand and supply were known and therefore start from a higher base level in
1990. Assuming a more likely spot price base of US$93/t in 1990, a price level
of about US$99/t in 2000 might seem more appropriate.



- 45 -                                    Attachment
"=a - mum mnzm One coo 0 o no
19/89  1989/90  10/91  19M/92  1992/    19M/9   1994/95 199/2000
.... ....... ...................... ..........  ....... ...........  ....... ...........  ....... ...........  .......
U0OLD TOTAL                27,990   27,170   27,780   28,140   28,750   29,180   29,5B0   31,430
umaumma
DEVELOPED N.E.             11,230   11,320   11,500   11,520   11,550   11,580   11,590   11,650
..............
North Amrrica               4,740    4,910    5,070    5,100    5,130    5.150    5,160    5,300
WUstern Europe              5,510    5.450    5,430    5,420    5,410    5,410    5,400    5,300
Oceania                       230      240       250      250      260      260       270      290
Other Developed Ec.           750      720       750      750      750       760      760      760
DEVELOPING N.E.             4,950    4,900    5,180    5,420    5,700    5,900    6,090    7,080
...............
Africa                        290      290      310       330      360      370       390      500
Latin Ameriea               2,250    2,150    2,250    2,330    2,420    2,520    2,600    3,100
Near East                     170      180       190      200      210      220       230      280
Far East                    2,240    2,280    2,430    2,560    2,710    2,790    2,870    3,200
CENTRALLY PLANNED. EC.     11,810   10.950   11,100   11,200   11,500   11,700   11,900   12,700
.....................
Eastern Europe             10,080    9,300    9,300    9,300    9,500    9,600    9,700   10,000
Socialist Asia              1,730    1,650    1,800    1,900    2,000    2,100    2,200    2,700
TECHNICAL GRADE POTASH DEMN  000 TONS t20
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95 1999/2000
=........ .... ...... ,.   ....... ......... .. ...  .......  ..... ..... ........ ...... ......... ;;.....
WORLD TOTAL                   983      993    1,006    1,014        2S    1.035    1,0I7    1,084
DEVELOPED N.E.                874      882      891       899      907      915       925      942
..............
North Amrica                  S52      557       562      567      572      577       582      590
Wastern Europe                312      31S      318       321      324      327       331      332
Oceania                                                                                          S
Other Developed Ec.            10       10        11       11       11        11       12       1S
DEVELOPING N.E.                 4        5         6        7        9        10       11       20
...............
Africa
Latin Amwrice
Near East                       4        5        6         7        9        10       11       15
Far East                                                                                         S
CENTRALLY PLAUNED EC.         105      106       107      108      109      110       111      122
Eastern Europe                105      101       102      103      104       105      106      114
Socialist Asia                           S         5        5                           S 5  5   8



- 46 -                                  Attachment 2
D sm         K     MM=  eon T        o
19889  198/90  1990/91  1M/92  1M92M9  M9M9  19MM9
~~~~~~~.......               .......... .......  .......................... ................... . .........
WELD TOTAL                37,547  37402   37732    7,982   37,92   37,98.  SS, 102
DEVLOPE  N.E.             20.627   20,482   20,392   20,M    209    20m S92  20,392
..............
North Amwrica             13,307  13,012  13,012   13,012   13,012   13,012  13,O12
Canada                  11,430   11,190   11,190   11,190   11,190   11,1190   11,
USA                      1,877    1.,22    1,822    1,2    1,822    1,822    1,622
Weetem  Europe             6,060   6,150    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000
France                   1,800    1,800    1,300   1,8'0    1,800    1,800   l,SO0
Getveny F.R.             2,700    2,700    2,7Q0    2,700    2,700    2,700    2,700
Italy                     200      250      250      250      250      250      250
Spifn                     860      900      750      750      750      750      750
United Kingdo              SOO     5W       500      SOO      500      500      SOO
Other Developed N.E.       1,260    1,320    1,380    1,380    1,380    1,380   1,380
.................. .
Isral                   1,260    1,320    1,380    1,380    1,380    1,380    1,380
DEVELOPING N.E.              990     990       40      840      860      840      960
...............
Latin  wericea               150     150
..... I........ 
Bratzl                     1SO     1SO
Near East                   "0       80       840      840      840      840      96O
Jordn                     840      640      640      840      840      840      960
CENTRALLY PLUANED EC.    15,930   15,930   16,500   16,750   16,750   16,750   16,750
.....................
Eastern Europe            15,880   15,880   16,380   16,630   16,630   16,630   16,60
..............
ee  D.R.                3,500    3,500    3,500    3,500    3,500    3,500   3,500
uSSR                    12,380   12,380   12.880   13,130   13,130   13,130  13,130
Socialist Asis               SO       SO      120      120      120      120      120
..............
Chins                      so       so      120      120      120      120      120



- 47 -                                Attachimut 3
Page 1 of 3
ORS    MR    BM    OM     ALCOSNO NO  D
0IUOE N.E.              1989 198/9  19901  199/9  1923  1993/9  199/9
_ ~~~~~~.......   ........... v   .........   .......   ........... .......   ........... .. . .... 0....... ...
North Ari1ca
.............
cpaity                   13,307  13,012  13,012  13,012  13,012  13,012  13,012
Suppy CapabiIIty         10,W6   11,245  11,152  11,152  11,152  11,152  11,152
Supply Potential        10,116  10,463  10,367   10,362  10,357  10,352   10,347
camaptien                4,740   4,910   5.070   5,100   5,130   5,150   5,140
Surplus (-DefIcit)       5,376   5,553   S29    5,262   5,227   5202   5.18T
Vatern eureop
........................ 
Caaity                   6,060   6,150   6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000   6.000
S"IlV Capability         5,67    5,n2    5,62    5,625   5,625   5,425   5,625
Supaly Potential         5,250   5293    5.195   5,192   5,18    5,186   5,182
Cmnomption               5,510   5,450   5,430   5,420   5,410   5,410   5,400
Surplus (-Defielt)        (261)   (157)   (236)   (229)   (222)   (225)   (219)
Coaity                       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Sq*py Capabi Iity            0        0       0        0        0       0        0
S.pwly Potentlal             0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Cwwxption                  230      240     250      250      260     260      270
Surplus (-Deficit)        (230)   (240)   (250)   (250)   (260)   (260)   (270)
other Developed N.E.
....................
Capcity                  1,260   1,320    1,360   1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380
utly Caability           1,260   1,290    1,350    1,380   1,380   1,380   1,380
Supply Pential           1,197   1,226   1,2       1,311   1.311   1.311   1,311
Cinnuption                 750      720     750      75       750     760      760
Surplu (-WDfict)           4T       506     m 561             561     551      551
TOTAL DEVELOPMD .E.
....................
Capacity                20,62T  20,42   20,392  20,392  20,392  20,392  20,392
Suply Capability         17821   18,257  18,127  18,157  18,157  18,157  18,157
Sply Potential           16,563  16,981  16,844  16,864  16,856  16,248   16,89
Conuitian                11,230  11,320   11,500   11,520   11,530  11,580   11,590
Surplus (*Deffelt)       5,333   S,461    5344   5,344   5,30    5,268   5,249



- 48 ^                         Attachment 3
page 2 of 3
IMMI FUBM FAU!U SUMY. DM118D RMARMn 000 ION 0
DEVELOPINO N.E.          1        1    0  1901  11/92  199/3  1M/9   19M/
_   _             ~~~~~.......  .......  .......  .....  .......  .......  .......
Africa
......;t
Capacity                       0       0        0        0        0        0        0
8PpV Capabil Ity               0       0        0        0        0        0        0
8upptly Potential              0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Comwption                    290      290     310      330      360      370      39
Surp,l;  (-Deffeit)        (290)   (290)   (310)   (330)   (36o)   (370)   (390)
Latin America
Caeity                      ISO      SO
Suppty Capability             57      77
Suly Potentiat                54      73        0        0        0        0        0
Comatwtian                 2,250    2,150    2,250    2,.330    2,420    2,520    2,600
Surplus (-Deficit)        (2,19)  (2,077)  (2,250)  (2,330)  (2,420)  (2,520)  (2,600)
Near East
Capcity                     8O       840      840      840      840      840      96O
Supply Capability            780     840      840      840      840      840      900
Supply Potential             77      m        792      791      789      m        844
Cr1umption                   170     180      190      200      210      220      230
Surplus (-DOficit)           567     613      602      591      579      S68      614
Far east
Cpacity                       0        0        0        0        0        0        0
SupwyCapabitI ty               0       0        0        0        0        0        0
uply Potentl                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Corsuaption               2,240    2,280    2,430    2,560    2,710    2,790    2,870
Surplus (-Defieit)        (2,240)  (2,280) (2,430) (2,560)  (2,710) (2,7)  (2,870)
TOTAL DEVELOPING N.E.
.....................
Capacity                    990      990      840       40      840      840      960
Supply Capablity            83?     917      840      840      840      840      900
Supply Potential             791      "       792      791      789      788      844
Consuption                4,"0    4,900    5,180    5,420    5,700    5,900    6,090
Surplus (-Deficit)        (4,159)  (4,034)  ;4, SU)  (4,629)  (4,911) (5,112)  (5,24)



- 49 -                                Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
*AM W U!M 1flLIC SUPPI. DUWMD BaASAC 000 IWM 
CENTRALLY PLANNED EC.   1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  19M1/92  1992/93  193/94  199/95
~~~~~~~.  _.,...... .......... .......    .......... .......    .......... ....... .......  . .....--.......*-
Eastern Europe
..............
capacity                 15,880  15,880  16,380  16,430  16,630  16,630   16,630
Supply Capability        14,258  14,292   14,382   14,500   14,430   14,815  14,933
supply Potential         12,979  13,014  13,094  13,199  13,315   13,481   13,586
Consuption               10,060   9,300   9,300   9,300   9,500   9,00   9,700
Surplus (-Deficit)        2.8S9    3,714   3,794   3,699   3,81S    3,881    3.886
Socialist Asia
capacity                     50      50      120      120     120      120      120
Supply Capeblity            35       60       84      84       84       84       84
Supply Potential             33      S7       80       80      80       80       80
Caruption                 1,730   1,650   1,800   1,900   2,000   2,100   2,200
Surplus (-Deficit)       (1,697) (1,593) (1,720)  (1,820) (1,920)  (2,020) (2,120)
TOTAL CENT. PLANNED EC.
capacity                 15,930   15,930   16,500  16,750   16,750   16,750   16,750
Supply Capability        14,293   14,352  14,466  14,584   14,714  14,899  15,017
Supply Potential         13,012  13,071   13,174  13,279   13,395   13,560   13,466
Co rption                11,810  10,950   11,100   11,200   11,500   11,700   11,900
Surplus (-Deficit)        1,202   2,121   2,074   2,079   1,89S    1,860  '1,76
WOLD TOTAL
Capacity                 37,547  37,402  37,732  37,982   37,982  37,962   38,102
Suply Capability         32,951   33,526  33,433  33,581   33,711   33,896  34,074
Supply Potential         30,366  30,918  30,810  30,934   31,040  31,197  31,349
Cunswption               27,90  27,170  2?,780   28,140   28,750   29,180   29,580
Surplus (-Defielt)        2,376   3,748   3.030   2,794    2,290    2,017    1,769
world Bank/ FAO/ UNIDO/ Industry/ Fertiliter Working Grop



- 50 -                                     Exhibit I
(im)
CaGt       caned.         USSR      coffimn      Joon        lel        lei
Cost Item                         vancouer  St. Johns   Vontepilt        N&*Wg         Aqubs       Eliat       ad
Investmnt
......................
S/A.mual ToQm  Capacity                 300         300          300         300         210         210         210
.............................
103 Cash Flow Retun                      39          39          39           39          2?          27         27
l5X Cash lFl Return                      ST          S7           ST         5           39          39          39
Operatfng Costs (USS ToM)
...........................
Variable Cost                            12          22           14           24          12         12          12
Fixed Cost                               1S          20           18          30           9           9           9
Taes and Tariffs                          5                                               10
Total Cash Costs                         32          42           32          54          31          21          21
............. .................
Realstation Price (USS/Tonne)
..............................
(1) 10  IRR                            71          S1          71           93          S8          48         48
(2) IS% IRR                            89          998111                               70          60         40
Inland Tranport (US/Tonnm)               22           4           1S           6           4           4           7
............................
Terminnl 8 Loading (USS/Twn               S           S            S            5          5           S           5
..............................
FOBCashCost (USOTone)                    59          51           52          6S          40          30         33
.........................
FOB Realization Price (us/Tnori)
................................
(1    10X IRR                         98          90          91          104          6?          S?         60
(2)  ISX IRR                          116         108         109          122          79          69         n
Freight Costs (US$/Torne)
.................
(1) Brazil                             19          17          23           22          20          20          18
(2)  India                             38                      46           65          24          24
(3)  Indonesia                         2                       47           46          2           27
(4) China                              22                      4            47          22          22
CIf Cost (Cash)
..................
(1) razil                              78          68           5           87          60          50         51
(2)  India                             97                      96          110          64          54
(3)  indonesia                         86                      99          111          67          57s
(4)  China                             81                      98          112          62          S2
CIF Cost (10X IR)
.....................
(1)  Brazil                           117         10?          114         124          8?          77         78
(2)  India                            136                      137         149          91          R1
(3)  Indonesia                        125                      138         I50          94          81
(4)  China                            120                      137         151          89          79
CIF Cost t1SX IRA)
.....................
(1)  Brazil                           13S         125          132         144          99          89         90
(2)  lIndia                           1S4                      15S         167         103          93
(3)  Indonesia                        143                      156          168        106          96
(6)  China                            138                      155         16          101          91



-nnex II
- 51 -                        Attachment 4
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN - DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF WORLD POTASH TRADE
1.          In order to understand more fully the competitive relationship of
the major potash exporters in the growing potash markets, a matrix has been
calculated to show the producers' cash cost per ton and total costs per ton,
including a cash flow return of exporting potash to various destinations. This
matrix is attached as Exhibit 1.
2.          Potash exports are limited to a few major countries that have large
potash reserves.   In the next decade, the increase in potash demand will be
satisfied mainly from Canada, USSR, Israel and Jordan. As it is possible that
potash needs can be met through the next decade without any major increase in
capacity, other than that already being implemented or planned, the total
delivered cash cost is an important indicator of competitiveness.
3.          The cash flow return is the internal rate of return calculated from
a standard mining model to cover the investment cost. Basically, the model
calculates the cash flow needed to generate a certain rate of return on a fixed
investment expressed in terms of investment per annual ton of capacity. The model
simulates a new mining project over a 20-year period and takes into account
phased investments and revenues. It calculates the average cash flow per ton
of product required to generate internal rates of return of 10% and 15% in the
various scenarios considered.
4.          In the calculations the following basic investment information has
been assumed:
- Potash dry mining - US$300/annual ton of capacity
- Potash from brines - US$210/annual ton of capacity
These estimates are based on dry mines in Canada and various evaluations of
projects based on the recovery of potash from brines. It is appreciated that
investment costs will vary from country to country depending on the location,
quality of ore body and type of mining.   However, for the purpose of this
exercise, similar investments have been assumed for the underground mines of
Canada, USSR and Germany. West and East Germany are regarded as one location.
With regard to Jordan and Israel, similar production and inland transport costs
have been assumed for shipments through the Gulf of Aqaba, although it is
appreciated that there may be some small differences in actual operating costs
in the two countries.
5.          Freight costs used are mid-1990 average rates for the specific potash
trade routes. This takes into account that on the long routes to major markets,
large vessels of up to 50,000 tonnes are used. Advantageous freight rates are
realized in some cases by combined shipments, such as potash and sulphur in the
case of Canada and potash and phosphate rock in the case of Jordan. US$5 is
allowed for terminal costs and loading, although here again, actual costs may
vary from site to site. Taxes on production or export are given where known such
as for Canada and Jordan, but no taxes on imports are included.



- 52 -                ~~~~Attachment 4
Page 2 of 2
6.          It is generally accepted that Canada with large reserves of high
quality sylvini e is the lowest cost underground mining producer and based on
the costs available from Canada and a knowledge of the ore bodies elsewhere, some
costs have been derived for production costs in Germany and the USSR. The costs
for the USSR are based on a notional economic comparison as very little
information is available on actual operating costs there; actual costs however
are believed to be very much higher.   Although little detailed published
information is available on the costs of producing potash from brines, basic
information is available on the process from which operating costs have been
calculated and which are in fair agreement with the annual overall costs
published by operating companies. The cost of operating a brining operation, such
as that in Jordan and Israel, is relatively inexpensive compared with underground
mining. Labor costs are relatively cheap and solar energy provides most of the
energy required by the process.
7.          The delivered costs from the major markets estimated in the attached
Exhibit show clearly the advantages that the Middle East producers with their
relatively low production and transport costs have over the other producers. In
every major region of new demand, Israel and Jordan have a clear advantage and
this advantage increases if the cost of new or replacement plant is taken into
account. Although Canada is the least cost underground mining operation, most
of this advantage is lost because of the high over-land freight costs from
Saskatchewan to Vancouver. Potash is also mined in New Brunswick where inland
transport costs are lower but mining costs are higher than in Saskatchewan. New
Brunswick has some advantage over Saskatchewan with regard to markets in Latin
America like Brazil, and can also compete in Europe with the high-cost European
producers, but is at a disadvantage in the larger markets of the Far East and
Socialist Asia.
8.          Produce:rs in West Europe generally have high operating costs and will
continue to serve markets mainly within the region. No major expansions are
foreseen in Spain, France or Germany. Based on the assumptions made for the cost
of production in the USSR in the Uralkali Mining Combine where most new
investments have taken place recently, the USSR would generally be competitive
with Canada in all but the North American market. However it is believed that
the Soviet potash industry is not particularly efficient and it is known that
material losses in transport and storage are very high. The operating and inland
transport costs assumed probably underestimate the true cost of producing potash
in the Soviet Union, but economics may not always be the prime concern in a
desire to obtain hard currency and the Soviets will most likely remain an
aggressive seller in all markets. The move towards a market economy could affect
the USSR export situation. In the next few years, domestic consumption of potash
is expected to fall and this could increase the potential for higher exports.
On the other hand, market forces could also reduce production by closing
uneconomic mines.



- 53    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ nex II
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
JORDAN - DEAD   A INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
Aev MARKETING STRATEGY
1.          APC has developed a successful strategy allowing it to fully utilize
the capability of its production facilities. This has been done by sound
marketing principles rather than through price concessions and in fact the
Company has been able to obtaL, overall a better-than-average fob netback price.
APC's existing and future marketing policies will continue to be based on the
following considerations:
a.     it is a low cost producer, and with relatively low inland transport
costs, it has one of the lowest FOB costs for potash in the world;
b.     it has excellent storage and outloading facilities at Aqaba with the
ability to load and turn around large vessels quickly;
c.     shipping out of Aqaba can comprise mixed loads of potash and
phosphate rock or phosphate fertilizers from Jordan, or even sulphur
brought overland from Iraq;
d.     Aqaba is conveniently situated to serve all world potash markets and
has a clear advantage in freight over the other large producers in
the Asian markets;
e.     APC is a relatively small producer and so can remain relatively
unaffected by major fluctuations in world consumption;
f.     Jordan has strong cultural and trade links with many countries in
the Asian market;
g.     APC has built up a high reputation for reliability and flexibility
and has a competent and well informed marketing department that has
done an excellent job in establishing the company as a major and
profitable exporter; and
h.     the main objective of APC's marketing strategy will be to develop
its market fully to ensure a stable and optimum return and profit,
both in the short and long term, bearing in mind that Jordan has the
natural resources to greatly increase potash production in the
future.
2.          APC's marketing strategy will therefore continue to be oriented to
the following:
(i)       APC will  maintain and increase its share in its existing major
markets. Jordan's two main clients are India and China both of whom
offer prospects for increased imports. In India, APC has a distinct
price advantage compared with other suppliers, and by sharing this
with the client it has the opportunity to further increase its market
share in the future. China is also a reliable client of Jordan
although the price advantage in this case is not as great.
Nevertheless, China seems anxious to increase its potash imports from



-4 -Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
Jordan and because it represents the largest growing market for
potash in the world, APC is looking forward to develop long term
sales contracts with both China and India.
(ii)      APC expects to maintain the good relationships it has built up with
other reliable and long term purchasers in Korea, Taiwan and Japan.
Although the prospect for growth in all of these countries may be
limited, they will continue to absorb 20-25X of APC's output.
(iii)      APC will build up its marketing efforts in the very competitive
markets of Indonesia, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Malaysia and
Thailand. Such efforts require aggressive and innovative marketing
techniques including a variety of methods such as joint cargoes,
bilateral trade arrangements, aid programs, competitive pricing and
above all the further establishment of APC as an efficient, reliable
and flexible supplier in these markets.
(iv)      With an increasing supply capability, APC will give more attention
to new markets, particularly   Australia and New Zealand. Early
results in this area have been encouraging and in particular there
seems scope for developing joint cargoes of phosphate and potash from
Jordan to minimize freight costs.
(v)      APC will  participate and maintain its presence in the European
markets. Although not a major market for APC, European countries
represent about 15X of total sales from Jordan, and this market can
be maintained and improved. APC must also maintain its contacts with
Brazil which offers the potential for future sales, particularly as
APC has competed there successfully in the past.
3.          Although APC has production and freight cost advantages, it will
continue its policy as a price follower rather than a price setter. At this
stage, APC as a relatively small producer with favorable market conditions has
seen no need to use price as a major marketing tool. The fact that APC has not
been disruptive in potash prices has enhanced its reputation both among producers
and consumers. As a result of this policy, APC has generally been able to obtain
a slightly higher FOB price than the international average. In some cases such
as India, it has been possible to fully exploit the freight advantage vis-a-
vis other producers to the advantage of both buyer and seller.



_ 55 -ULI
JODAI  DA  SEA INUSTZIA  EAPRTS PROJE
CAPITAL CaST EST==iTI
LoCAlI  Fore imn   Totl        laaal    oea       Ttl
(JD thousand)                (us$ thousand)
A. APC Optimization Project
Plant and Equipment                    1,428   27,716   29,144        2,132  41,367   43,499
Start-up Spare Parts                   -          773       773       -       1,153    1,153
Steel, Piping, Electrical
and Instrumentation Materials           884    7,959    8,843        1,320  11,880   13,200
Subtotal                           2,312   36,448   38,760         3,452  54,400   57,852
Design and Engineering Services        -        2,831    2,831        -       4,225    4.225
Project Management and Insurance       -          772       772               1,153    1,153
Construction Management                1,062    1,595    2,657        1,586   2,380    3,966
Erection                                 590    5,306    5,896          880   7,920    8,800
Civil Works                              372      558       930         555      833    1,388
Infrastructure                           215      858    1,073          320   1,281    1,601
Buildings                                549    2,150    2,699          820   3,209    4,029
Commissioning                          -          722       722       -       1,077    1,077
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)           5,100   51,240   56,340         7,613  76,478   84,091
(In August 1990 prices)
Physical Contingencies, 10  of BCE.    510    5,124    5,634           761   7,648    8,409
Price Escalation /a                    1,134    5,648    6,782        1,691   8,429   10,120
Total Installed Cost              6,744   62,012   68,756        10,065  92,555  102,620
Pre-Operations Costs                   1,597   -         1,597        2,384  -          2,384
Incremental Working Capital            7,900   -         7,900       11,791  -         11,791
Interest During Construction           -        2,888    2,888       -        4,310    4,310
APC Qptimization Project
Financing Reguired              16,241  64,900   81,141        24,240   96,865 121,105
B. Dead Sea Chemical Industries
Advisory Service
Consultancy Services                       33      67       100          50      100       150
Total Project Financina Reauired       16,274  64,967   81,241       24,290   96,965  121,255
/a 10.9X of Base Cost Estimate and Physical Contingencies.
EM3IE



- 56 -
JORDAN - DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
10D Loan Disbursement Schedule
Profile
IBRD oLaim                            of ENENA
EstimAted Disbursement Schedule                     Industry
FIB-Cal         By Ouarter      Cuxulativa                          ZroJects /-
XYear   uarte  ------ US$ million -            X                         %
1222 1st           0.6              .6
2nd           0.7            1.3                                  0.0
3rd           0.3            1.6
4th           0.4            2.0           13.3                    6.0
122. 1st           0.5            2.5
2nd           1.2            3.7                                 10.0
3rd           2.3            6.0
4th           2.7            8.7           58.0                   22.0
1994 1st           2.2           10.9
2nd           1.1           12.0                                 38.0
3rd           0.7           12.7
4th           0.6           13.3           88.7                   50.0
I199  1st          0.4           13.7
2nd           0.3           14.0                                 66.0
3rd           0.3           14.3
4th           0.3           14.6           97.3                   74.0
996 1st            0.2           14.8
2nd           0.2           15.0          100.0                  86.0
3rd
4th                                                               94.0
1997 1st
2nd                                                              98.0
3rd
4th                                                             100.0
A/ Based on industrial projects in the Europe, Middle East, North
Africa Region, IBRD financed, all fully disbursed.



8       W133N13F711LlIt              f    i                       f ,  I
IC              [    1 .4 0*                       riiI         X
_ ...........          .  .                      ........... .>.
.  .    .   .     .     .  .--- .  .  .  .         
.       . . . .       W w . .     .3  ..9.
9   3                                       |~ ar      1 0  ** 
.... ...........                               . . . . .. .
_    . .    .......            .  .            .......
o.     ..   .. . . .. .   .S
0  4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~L  
.'               .        ..                                     .3
3.6            I. >.                    .I 
.. . < > | b*  ,    .                            .   |               e1
.. .   . .    ...... .wr 
I .    .                                     .I  ..   
ii (x40*



- 58 -
JO_A  - DYAD SUA  DUTRIA  EPR   PJ
S~Uervisio  Plan
Staff      Staff
Fbneal              Staff S.cialt                       eeks ys
1992              Engineer                             3            (2)
Financial Analyst                    3           (2)
1993              Engineer                             3            (2)
Financial Analyst                    3           (2)
1994              Engineer                             3           (2)
Financial Analyst                    3           (2)
1995              Engineer                             3            (2)
Financial Analyst                   24           16
24          16



- 59                                                                Annex VIZ
mn  - aEAD                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
0toa
*8* . -
cams ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ {'
_td                                                  -ms    OM              IMS   II.            S3.W u       1O.s
nealets                                              --           -          .-.   -..              -          ._
Cub                                    $~~~~~~~~.193  ,11"4   0.14       11.14      5323        13.2
ftsut                                                 641        654         5         1.61       2.5          D,11
hunt  Iseibi                                        3,401       3.11       4.113        .,        5,68       10514
IaUaN  61wuu            tuai                        59.013    6,1         1,333       1.2        I.5        12.38
Paw                                                 i,1t        1.163        6           1n       1.1         1.
ttl Camnt AMU                                    11,411     21,6        21.613     32.222         ,          .14
st"aufthaibilt? Sto                                  604       1.,6       3.          2.454      l.12        1.152
let Fid hastse                                    11M9       155,56       99,14        .109      9.145       34.9
Cam e?  lusuautasa  sfsa                                                                          16-II.      2.64
ktgtowsSdot       la Cet                           1l,61        3,164      5L,4S       2.921
ta! got   to   haut                               1,1         114,332    15.69        06.110    112,150      6.63
toal hAN                                          14.2    i3l            13.671    13.2         13,61    205.1N
liet   liabilltif
e ts t bble                                         5,533       2.1N0      1,664       3,36       5.n         3.95
Ufdssd  Puabla                                                                                                3.6
VAn-ten Low                                        13335      23,1i
Comnd btaltis:                                      t.lt0      1.441       6.4t4    21.91        16,613      11.119
etal Camt tiablltlse                               26.033     33,611      23.490      25.71      *3.317      33.U
I.*tesa liaIlite
Wms-s  to          b
toAl GMss &       4U  Debt                         11.219     80,633      11,19       16.631     3641        64.3
Weu cames latutls                                   1,110       6,441     1.434       21,915     16,393      11.119
It law-s Dbt                                      3II.U9      12,651       ,145       54N.51     U.63        53
Staf la Ul                                           VI         438         30        1,116      1,52       2I11
lota  le-tu   Ll IUtIes                            31.03          15       1,441      55,13 6.UI             55.333
-. _ _. - - -
R81*b6's i
Slat capIta                                        64,160     65.31       13.521      12.65      121540      12m5
sten bum                                               20          2o         2          165      4.          I',
ltld  Unie  (I )                                  (33.0821   (35,63)    34)   (3 5)               3,510      a.6
total huit                                         34.541     36.351      31,519      4.,2         0.83    11H,311
total LIabjUtlas I aaisbslDm  94.117              141.N92    1,3101    131.20        H        1UM   .381    25.1
____________________                               zs- n :   t:mu        uu:'1tt Ttt             iS '    uszz



-                                                      Pag  2 Annex VII
aseAN. - MMSAIDUDIR                  MUM  F RO T          Page  2  of  2
suai rIIMhL ST                     (1985-1980)
Profit and boos Accont
.... ...._.**...... _._...... _
(JD'OOO)
ALtAgl                             Botih.
.................. ................................ ........ ..
1985       1986        1987        toeS        1989       1900
........~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                        ...         ..
sales levean                                            28,768      27,609     27,416      44,692      71,946      86,803
Other Revene                                               345       2,521      3,061       5,073      14,162       6,180
Total leveles                                           29,113      30,130     31,2??      49,765      86,108      93,013
-----            -------.. .......    -------    ....... ...................
Production Costs
................
Salaies                                                  3,1482      3,799      4,234       4,486       4,932       4,511
fuel 011                                                 3,399       3,532      3,119       4,020       4,298       4,766
Por                                                      1,343       1,536      1,625       1,876       1,896       2,013
aterials ad Supplies                                       387         362        3S8         404         635         612
atateumce                                                1,138       1,652       1,439      1,86        2,313       4,584
Other Costs                                              1,549       1,043         2g9        404         421         462
Dereciation                                              7,815       7,832      1,912       7,856       7,955       7,971
Total Production Costa                                  19,113      19,156     19,506      20,942      22,456      24,982
Potash lveatory (leer) Dkor.                             1,768         660         416         (34)    (1,128)        (54)
Total Cost of goods Sold                                20,081      20,416     19,922      20,908      21,328      24,927
Gross Profit                                             8,232       9,114     11,355      28,857      64,780      66,155
Marketing apenses
... ..___....... _____
Tckiag ad Oter                                           1,129       2,359      2,311       2,244       2,602       2,680
Aqaba Lading Chargn                                        514       1,044      1,284       1,371       1,302       2,t41
Eport Ta                                                   233         281        306         326       2,641       7,11Y
..   _,          .4       ~~~~......  ------    ......
Total larketing Exese                                    2,509       3,685      3,901       3,1941      6,545      13,108
....... ......       . . ......     ......   . . ...... ..... ........ ......... ...
Overeiads                                                3,225       3,382      3,457       3,407       3,456       1,107
...... ............         .......     ....... ... ....... ..... .................... .
Operating Profit (Loss)                                  2,499       2,64       3,997      21,509      54,780      54,072
finacial Carges
...............
Intemt                                                   9,024      7,622       7,88        7,6186      8,695       7,161
Wess Interst lIenO                                                       -           --                (3,496)    (5.311)
Other f1Uinal1 Cbarues                                                                      6,961       8,099      11,3S3
..~~~~-          - -     -------.   . . ....... . ................. ..~
Total lincial charges                                    9,024       7,622      7,887      14,647      13,298      13,183
... .........    .......    ..... .....    ..... ............ .
Met Iom  (Los)                                          (6,525)    (4,915)    (3,890)       8,662      41,42       40,68
EM3IE



- 61 -                             ex VIII
- 61 -                 ~~~~Page I of 3
JORDAN - DEAD SEA IXDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
APC - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.          The economic/financial projections for the Arab Potash Company
(APC) were developed on the basis of information provided by the Company.
Base case projections of APC's Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and
Sources and Applications of Funds Statement ars detailed on Attachments 1. 2
And 3, respectively. They are prepared in Jordanian dinars (JD) in constant
terms of 190O and reflect the impact of the Project on the Company's finances
and profitability. APC revenues and major items of cost are generated or
incurred in international prices, and since the categories for labor employed
by the Company are paid at levels close to international levels, no shadow
pricing or other adjustments are necessary for the Project economic analysis.
Since taxation has been taken into account in presenting the projections,
these were excluded when calculating the economic rate of return Annex VI-I.
The financial rate of return calculations diverge from the economic rate by
reflecting taxes and the use of different methods of projecting working
capital.
2.          The following describes the principal assumptions used in
preparing the projections.
I. Balance Sheet
(a)   Current Assets
-     Operating Cash: 2X of sales
-     Pre-payments:   10% of costs of goods sold plus marketing expenses
-    Accounts Receivable: 5 wks sales
-     Inventories - Potash:  100,000 tons up to 1994 120,000 tons in 1995,
and 125,000 tons in 1996 and thereafter.
-     Inventories - Spares and Materials: 6 months materials supplies and
maintenance
-     Excess Cash:  this amount refers to the excess cash accumulated as of
December 1990, reduced for the net financial requirements of the project
and other investments. Fresh cash surplus cash generation beginning
1994 is shown on a separate line.
(b) Long Term Assets,
-     Investment/Feasibility studies: this includes the APC-financed portion
of the feasibility studies currently underway for the Dead Sea chemicals
industries project.
-     Net Fixed Assets represents the book value as of December 1990,
increased by annual additions and decreased by annual depreciation; this
item is broken down into APC's existing operations and those related to
the Project.
-     Interest During Construction is calculated on outside financing to be
used for the Project, i.e. the IBRD loan and, the Islamic Development
Bank loan, accrued until start-up of commercial production, i.e. April
1994; this amount is amortized over 20 years.



- 62 -                         Annex Mll
Page 2 of 3
-     Currency Fluctuation Deferred refers to exchange losses incurred by APC
prior to 1991, to be charged to income until 1993.
-     Net Pre-Production Cost of thc Project is based on APC's estimate for
this cost to be incurred prior to commercial operations and amortized
over 10 years.
(c)  Current Liabilities
*    Accounts: 6 months of fuel, power and materials and supplies.                       4
-     Dividends Payable 15% of share capital, but not to exceed distributable
profit.
-     Taxes Payable:  these are computed at the rate of 22% for APC's existing
operations for 1993 and 1994 and 44% thereafter; concerning APC's
incremental net income attributable to the Project, taxes are computed
at 22% for 2000 and 2001 and 44% thereafter.
(d)   Long term Liabilities
-     Existing Long-Term Debt:  this represents APC's actual December 1990
debt converted at present exchange rates, where applicable, and
amortized according to the actual terms of the respective loans;
-     Project Long Term Debt is projected to be repaid as follows: IBRD 12
years beginning 1997 and, Islamic Development Bank 6 years beginning
1995.
Quasi Equitv anticipated by the Company to be fully repaid by 1993.
(e)   Equitv
-     Share Capital is pro'ected to be kept at present level without taking
into account capital increases which may be required for financing
future investment projects.
-     Statutory Reserves: accruing at a rate of 10% of pre-'ax income.
II. Profit and Loss Account
(a)   Revenues
-     Production volume of APC's existing operations has been assumed at a
level of 1.35 million, this is conservative when considering that 1990
production totaled 1.40 million. Incremental production under the
Project was assumed to increase from 333,000 in 1995 (equivalent to a
rate of 25% per year) to a level of 350,000 in 1996 and 400,000 in 1997
and thereafter. The sales volume differs in some of the initial Project
years due to inventory build-up.
-     Sales price assumptionz are begin at a level of US$90/ton in 1991; this
is 2.5% below the level achieved by APC in 1990. In the interest of
being conservative, and to allow for some reduction in proceeds to APC



- 63 -                          Annex VIII
Page 3 of 3
which may result from a larger sales volume placed at spot prices than
has so far been the case, most of APC's sales so far have been under
long-term sales agreements which are espected to continue.
-     Fotash prices are projected to increase in real terms in line with
increases projected by the Bank's International Commodity Markets
Division.
(b) Production Cost
-     These are essentially projected in line with APC's historical
experience. Labor cost is projected to increase by 3% per year in real
terms, reflecting an increase of 145 persons in the labor force at
Project start-up.
-     Fuel and diesel are projected at international prices which are
considerably higher than local prices, and power is projected at local
costs.
-     Materials/supplies and maintenance are based on historical cost but
projected to increase with the operation of the new facilities.
-     Depreciation is assumed at current rates, averaging 6X per year.
(c)   Marketing ExNenses
These are projected on the basis of historic experience and in line with
sales volume. Loading charges at the Port of Aqaba are projected at a
rate of JD 1.85/t and the export tax, at a rate of JD6/t, both in line
with current charges.
(d) Financial charges
Please see earlier comments under balance sheet assumptions.
(e) Distributions
The statutory reserve is assumed to continue to be provided for at a
rate of 10% of pre-tax income. Other distributions refers to board
renumerations university fees and training and R & D fees.
III. Sources and Application of Funds Statement
The items reflected here are self explanatory in light of the
assumptions described above and reflect the implementation and disbursement
schedules of the Project. Capital expenditure projections also provide for
ongoing or planned investments in maintenance and for other purposes until
1992, and a reasonable level of future expenditures mainly for maintenance and
equipment replacement. The increased projections for expenditures in 1999 and
2004 reflect the periodic replacement of trucks.
Attachments



-akA DMD SEk IUlUSTRIL U3SIlFL?A
(With Ftoect.)
we1841at im hIm
Caslmotbot                                    am         m          tan    am    am    am    1911   lm    tan    am                                            n    tml    m                   ao    nus    im                   an
l31altI  CoOn 1.114IS                                                          .t 1.611  1.111  3.21      1.16   , 11 tIl   ,3         .411      2.411       1.411      SA2N       M.4U       8,42        C,42       1.111      8.42
ft"Mnto                          3~~~~~.114  lea1       4.114      4,1114     MIIt        $32       *."n        I..n       2.412      LN1         4.13      2.6,4       4.8111     CM6        0.t4        64441      L.OU
kant  kottslte                             10.114       1,111      8.1131   .6111        C.14       11,1241    41.262     43.611     14.61$     11.61       11.611     12.634     11.41111   tt.63      33.64       11.314     4.6111
Jsestsrtes: liens I h.uI.o                 film1       10.1       10.111     10.3"         .  10. .111,10    36.41        W1.IN      16.11      41.40       H6,A1      46A11       1,1   1 121.434       111.18     11.13      "1.111
kw030                                  1.113      2.611      2.631      1.136       L.OSS      3.61       .1.14      4.134      4.042       0.310      4.1rA      I' .1 1   .331         4.442      4.611      6.111      4.011
1.4.2 boott toast                     2,1415    3.211        21.164     St.i2f     N.1.1      31.311      46.41      41,342     44.3       44.02      4t.1113     4.141      42.16      61.211      SLID      413.311      2.5163
$"la. tab tootlog 444                            I          6          4          0      1.411      44,463     S4.614     41.38S     41,14      191.431    111.114    41411,4    IWO.       ULM  111.113 224 1 44.20    ULM62
* 4,sttuestoj   ttos1144  114I.               1341       3.2121     4.324      4,220       tIX:       I'M3       0.124      4.111       4.211      4.14       4.114      4.1241     4.134       1.1141     4.21       2.114       4.12
641Un ShoES ts - tatatke4.11                          46, 24 11.114    4021.1          483.42      41.4126    211.0      13.21114     t   42362 13.113111 0.424    421.321    143.114    321.1311        3.624    482.314      11.018
lemt  labsd 3. m3        t     hole d                   2,4       3021       80,111      I'M1.114        1       3".631  11.3 11 10.211 lt.11                1.114.14   14.42     n.113    3621.111 1.0              1.3211     LO.S
tat tgoeokta   mso. . holeot                    -         2                    .w111 144.3 4.2       4.421      4,216      4.440        13         11         63          41         342        461           -          - 
tens..?    Itedoattes   Isbesood  42,614  6.616  4.       ......     . ...      ....       ....        . ...      ....       . ...      ....        ......                                   -   ----       ....
tatel  tints           h ll            U.4 11 9342,34        USA10      224.21      2119.0 22      2       W,M4 422 1924.412    ULM3.118 4. 11212.441    W4.232    264.41                248.62     22.41      WAS   23.3
btel htu                   n"L-'s,   - ... Iu-3s-   -J"-                                                                                             .        -      .M,-   -_..-        ----        --
03 t ooke4151                          48.40       C16.,3   10.1        46.013      46.1131    44.00      40.60       Ls"66     44.IN       44.4       14.150     444         Lot4        18,43      1M64       Ls."4       3.6410
lam  pp.33                                                        .           CM.        LOU 6, 11 4.444       4.614      4.1.143    11.44 144.6421    11.311           1.11      "2.M1      42,43       10.211     "3.14      41140
Cutet Is"tlulte       &Ial%ts               43,2441    46.164      4.4        1.14        31.114     4.1334     4.141      4.111      $.M2 12.411              M4        1M          in         141
-                     a~~~~~~~.111  2.116   3.24       2,364      S.1N        *442         M1          M3       2SU          Mn         M            S        M
foult Cames 14.l3414es               a2.4       22.01i      24,14      31.22      U462       34.2211       .222 ,1121.1        15.642     33.31  21.11 33.4       121  2.115            43.61011.1113        14.14 4 19 11 .434I
toes $10111tn kmh     i g" 124304                       4.131     431.42     4.4        1.11       t4, 2.  U111  21.M4      .        U11 14.34  4.63 4.   11 42          .139      1.613   111      2.1134111 3.0    LI          .11
O    Mtalo (g ke  -egT. I'Md             4430         .41   11.1)31       121440   31.1311    441.111       12.8113    "A.43      11.244      L 1.   1.4                INI     $11 11.1114.1123   64  31.32       .313      2.418
too.     c mts    e mtltl a             44.of.      10.6111      .4CM     11.414     U.4111      6.12        2.444     31.4241    61.21       1.16       4.11        6,11       3.114        .6       311 4.144  2122          2210
&   o4ns3 Soat IegI M                   12,224     41.113      44211      44.12      42.14,    32.14       24.424     23.434      4.4        t 1        4.1 6.302 6.0  V  1      1.10       ,23       4M1         M.4        M.3
get44 IadauIt                           2.1       41.1416      3.1231      A 2. 03   .302 14.343          34.44      21.343       1.113     11.223     41.1431     0.641       114,612    4.24       0,42       4.33       4.4
$Salf    toeS-le  11343.                 13        41.114       tin        M11.4     413l1      41.2    3   1,1        21.62 I=    2.12      44.4241    46,611     2164   1.11128.         12,1       4.2411     44M2        1.41
taut bits                         6~~~~~     ~~.624.   ......  ......  ..  .. ....    ....          .... I. ...           ....       .....    ..  ..    ....    ....               ...-       ...        ...        ...
66... b44s1                    ~~~~~~1126   22.6411   .64         18,6       1444n .411             13.414   148.641      12.64      2264       126        1364        12.634     28.6       12*9       436         SL,OW
111112 1e1 buemn                             6.1442    4.644      44.4111    142211    41,112      4.11        UJI401    11.113      4110.62    4.104    42.44         13.11       03         242       4.?13                  22.13            [I. D.  ".
koalso d hse   (loue                       261.611    42.411      111.4611   "4.44      41,24      411.114    444.423    621.31   140.634    411.6        341114    411.1111   4342          2.42        1.64      U4264      0144122
* 1.44 13341. 4split        s  SIt    111.112    USA21         SUN64      ULM44       111.614    1261113    1.31.26    W X12       KW42      334.641 3111 6WA       342.03      13 2.44   UL 3,4 14 32.11133 1234041   ULM
bul Usuli"    a go"bum   psh   W          n; ::?     S. "' W-l::-Z"                                                    'I . "M'     ,,,: . ,,n:         :3:a..,:    w,:n,:    nun:    oar                         pi :bl



.ra to     mel   2r  two  m                  *:   flsm    wn wt#         calls' w germ,t          weg       we tn           wa::       5q45&.....-... p
C14                w~~nl e      lI     mi WU-SB In-U    In-U   ;WaS   au-r    *.n               n-at  Wmn' m*            r       rnm;a*n un                        sspwm   tam
C'4                 rn.~~~~~~~out  swat    win   ur'    nn    Woe   We"  cann    are    rnam    urnW   sun    suna    un    Kt,4    urn    Ioa,   'u-se -,P
WVi    WVfl      Ual m       9 arm   w m lnlmii    Wm-n    cwas'   Arid   arm    ar          it   nI    u.            aaa af    an1me i .11own etI                   I  00q
asg.a  ou'       at'    tarn         n    an.U   WIc"   aan    an-an   wla   "I'm    nra    In-u    nioll   galai  Sall   Urn   *13pas- am15 elan"
WIa  1,tl        UJ: 111           o al, i'sss cm  ns 551 m  u.   5       us.l    His    WIf    9rt    all    gutea.    a    two                           m" fadme.
04J                                                                                                                                                                                        uaansnm
tw -w        m'It   a471s  tesS   1a1n    Ora    mWu    mn"   so."    tur    iiln    sUu it    w             owna    wit   sean                           A"  IV
urn-a  rn         mSal    urn    0113   twou   n-u    ms-n   sara    Ule    n1-1    s1itu    en-u1'    awu    us"          mis    n'an               as5 SUISI $*j4 
(win-    can-il   11551   11two    aim    ctnt    tim     (at      uo      M's    an       at:i   ian       Us's   mag    in-1    un               pomp  pauauej PPS
-  .     .   ~~~~~~~...  ....   .  ....   ....    ...     ....    ..-.     ... ..  ......  ni, .      ....  . rs .......s- an
saacaa  asaa'aa    san-si  (na-li  (5*55    ante   asses    nil  Iv  ASS    urn    na.s   isa  carsIwo    111 ul  I        amin8"0 ea 1.  am
131111  .scr,s   =ta*c   (Sn-ti  Sull  (Sn-l   SAS)   lotci   Sac    011h  sini   In'sIl an    Inal   15111   Mr'a    two                                  ,*asM.aa
ASS1   AIn       n        M      in      In       WI c    airt    Wn-    its's   WII    aWI    Slu-        WI      m'    wa-  a  i's                    qassaw: nat
Wun  mown          - urn         urnM'    1`1       ' at'    s sn  -  IUa  410'ss1   mia   rn-n,   Ma'"   s art       11it   ASSU  ItS-i           W   lp  kipii 
mt4   a15-a      nra    eu-    u1,0i  4nsa    ina    itwl    ni-S         oli trn          =a     U art na a. nt a-  tall    rn-a    mac                   maeSu"p
='a   Iusa        wes i-u        u-    nsa 1nsgaaa-M'             nan    arI'cs   ccc4-.  in-s'     a s'"   na-a    cn'    cnn s P   .            n qm'aS to aeqa
mat tea      ami     gom      urn    US'   Wa'l   aWa    cn           alls  curs   ganal       M' 051  CASt    5535    caa la'"cus~    lo S             ona imasaci
urn usi      M"-   is"       lo" rn-s     rn satfl   impl    ASt   AS-n  im   cs ) S a ll na-ta    n           to win)I-  mi    ni             ona (115142 15tw 
Wu t-iW at-a at,    a             we             oital  t-    tar"    nas-Si   at."    M ID    Wu5    mal   ia-a    cmt-IC   ni-s    urn a0                    P
in't   at-a      rn-a    nr'a   rn-s      m Wu    IcI   191ss a    mi,   rn-at   tors    nec'   us't   ass         Ull'    ISV    Us'a            smla42w ISt m .
tw-c    cuD      art    gull   rn-       aSls    Aps-   dus    M'Sa          Ic   na-c    na-c    essa    nt    O's   111s    iSa1 5                                #115
rn-     us-i     W ASS    ASS       i ASS    rn-i     usa  In-    Msn-    m1    -art   tart    as         ni-      ASl c    t      us                         toe ""Mol
nra    an-c      =I       W       M$I's s.c  a    aw  0      l    M's nra     AS-    ate   W       X1      a I5mt e-  Sac      I S    Sell                      tno"i
='I    M's  0'6 M's   0311-11 4311`1    O's art    91111    0113  41    id's 09's   tn't    19's   SU's             stat  ISO IN
WI 1m    a       Wsna  n   an-n          gi-rt    WIn ni-AS       id'sc  g-a l n- all    arus    u WI n U na-n    sue    to's   ni-n                    s-eIt"
....   ... .  ........  ......                .       ......                               .~~~~~~ .....S3S nt
mm3  urn         WmA    mm    Wm    wam nat sus             tnn    mm    mat6  at'sm         e           ImN's na    a    Mu rn   titama
M.a   o            I11    a30*WS na   et  mu  nanM na   M sa W an   mau Uman  Os"n mu n' stn ma                                                  aman  u*m  oaqs.tun ean
M         nO     aN     crm am           ont     an      na       i      sutu    an    '"a'    an'        anU     ae      an"M
zMuv uo av 
wffaw on  -V
SSW= 111uL1m Vag -m avwWg



03 ho 91                                                      JOMU WA  SuA IUIALM   E                                    R8E
(With PxJoJt)
fit lute                                                                                      rjtd
-...                                             1990       0911        1992       2993        19?96        W.9       1996        1991       M9e         199        200         2002        2002       200         2004        200        2M
Cub  eOarstion trot OreratliDas                      ..         ..         ....       ....        ....        ....       ..           ....       ....                   ---       ......                             ---         ---        ...
get lacmu  flosol aft.r tax and 2djudetents    39.996        20 312     30.201      24 938      3.9.10 1 82.124        28,684     10.611      30.021      28.524     26.32?      25,495     21.908      20A9?       19.09M      29.00      11.248
Ilettat                                           1.161       5.282      4.22?       3.243      2.525       3.590       3.248      2.821       2.035       0.502      1.000         16n        62n        4a8          348 
Lennd Cartensey fluctuation                                   4.028      6,008       4.0             --                                 -                                             ---                                              
Feontaka for Stiff ladesatp                         582         359         410       4go          410        410         470        4in         410         410       4ITO---                                                         
ki trthatica aid Depeelstloo                      1,971      10.501  1 20 Sin       Mi.st       21.81?     IS.M6       28.466     21.541      22.822      22.822     24.002      25.981     21,061      28.141      29.340     30.281      31.340
total CaS Generation fro. Operations    $5.710        48.400      50.013      45.921    4WM1         WM56       52,163      55.494      55.152     55.311      52.698     52,243      49.597      4958       4,18831     49,219      49.581
lnetease in LT lorelpn Lnm   Ixiatiot               924         ?l.                                                                               .....
Oacreaae io LT Foreipn toni   Project                 -       1.35?      4,283      12.414       2.046        61sic-                                                                  ..                                       
Total Flinclag                                916      2.058       4,183      12,424      2.041         610                                  ...-.-
TToL tOi,   S 5ol                                 6.625      $0.538     55.156      S1. 935     40.820     52.335      52,113     55. 494     55. 252     55,311     52.608      12.243     49.59?      41.58       49.668     4.  48.210  (.8
Capitol Innendltart
Dead get Cbealcal Iodaatetei Stadies                            S 52                      .          .           .-                                ..--.-..-
capital Eapeiadtnra   latlng                      6.328      24.435     23.029      26.66   I000           20.600      28006Itco  10.008      08,000     20.20M      28.800      18000       MM 0       WHO880     20.1000    08 0         18.000
Caoital fapeaitare   t'eeleet                          -      3.122     21.158      638952       4.529-                                                        -..-
Inttrest Onaing Contrattion                                      56        268         914      1.510 
Preprodoctioa iopenttat                                         700        311         51          510
Moal Capital Iop.ndtatn                      6.328     28.302      408.80      621. 42    23.609      08.000     28,808      108.00      28,000     20.000      28,0081    18,000      t8.6108     08,800     28,000      Wool0    08.090
Debt Seaaite
Pfitelpul Repsyitit  LT foreigp  Leans - ii    22.0561   4.453          13.130       9.071      5,0210      5.368       4.358      4.541       4On1       3.626       2.490         M1         011,        "I2         so6.
L ImFrign kmn    Pro              .                                 -           -      0.10?      2.114       2.580       2.560      2.580       2.560         113        M1          Mf         1"3         1`13       MT
Ut.ad Poh'ipaO  ilpepnat                   22.066      14.653     23.130       9.811         22  1.     lfl.     6.3?2       1.100       1.131      6,306       5.050       1.155      l.$ 1.154 1.16         2309          113         113
la2ep.:t                                          7.162       5.281      4.221       3.74       2.525       3.90        3.148      2.611       2.815      1.502       1,000        16          628         488        348            - 
Total Debt Serolce,                        29.221      10.934     11.947103.120           1.053      10,045      9.680       9,722      82121       108         4.50s      2.5Su       2.18n       2.242      2,611         113        1M 
Dhiviiead                                              -     1000 0.868       20.86 086         M0.66      10.8668     10.808     10.868      00.8181    20.818      00.80       18.868     30,8         0,88  1    0.18 1.8618  20.8161   100.88e
Biullet Capital ibongs                           21.012       3.363        611      (6.4131       (6082     0.016       2.645      0.204         08         so       (1.1692       88I      11.658       I,63       M.6         L.81          88             lb   lb
"tOTAL  11iciTIUs                                56,65       62.548      70.322     19.010     41.324      40.120      40. 292    39,184      39.028     39.624      330140     32.350      10.592      33.143     33,508      30.115      38.502
Annul let Cubl SonlI                                   .          .                             1.491      01 .681     122,512    15.11       26,124     15.693      19,549     19.093      28.685      01,443     2109        26.555      19.0104.6.
MOAI 41PLICAIMOS  HID CLii 50060                 56.625      62.548     70.326      19.010     46028O    52.235       52.163      55,494      55.A52     55,321      52,6018    52.243      40,591      49,5S      49.688      49.210      49,509



jma DED se A nML7RA s nU:r P
WIFeL Rant SW RnEWU CAWLCUAIC
(ta 5oD    of IINI
1999 119               1993        1994       2995        19S6        I       91 1998        1m 9         008       2002        2002        2013       2004        2Ms        2
Ills "Om80                                     ---         ---        -----       ---                    ----        -----                  ------        ----      -----       -----                               ---       ---
... . ...
Bhlet lecuet                                  81.260     81,480      89.126      93.013    115.209    11.5140    121.351    12Z.02    121,237    121.411  121,41    121.411    121.471    121.411    121.411    121,411
kes: Costs of 6ow    Sold                     21.654     21.410      22,832      23,0S9     21.055      29.262      29.931     30.239      30,409      30,698     30.99      31.19      31.4152    31.106      3.965       32,2
Othe  Couts                            15.168      15,099      15,421     I5.38       19.SSB      20,111     21,091      21.504      22.06t     22.593      23,0K       23.587     M415       24.12      2t.261    25.337
Isoose I I                                  -           -      t.211       8.619      117112      16,518     15.983      15.20t      14,641     16.708      1S.999      11.912     11.131      16,t35      15,549     14,930
. ....   ----       ---          ...        ....       .....       -  --       ....       ....        -   --      ----        .  ...     ....         ---        ---        ....
hIt  Cphratla   ka los Mn4.381    41.941                             44.233      45I17     50.184      51,5826 4.34            3,911       2.114      511.412    51,456      46,71       46.72      46,798      46,648      46.1
lorhta  Capital                                3.353        ell      26.413)       too6)     1.016       1,6S4       1.204        990         869      021.91)       962      (1.650)      1.033       1.062      3,014         861
*1T IOJICt
.. . .....
Sals Seaes                                   81.260      14,180      89,128     93.013      93.525      93,616       3.616     93.314      93,525      93.106     93,70e      91,t70      993,t0     93,106      93.716 1 3.196
les: Coata of ods Sold                        2,654      21,416       2.832     23.031      23.109      23.501     23.612      23,952      2,09S      214.34?     24,0        24,791     25,019      25.24       25,N64     25.7t3
Othr Costs                             I5s.61J     15.099     25.421       5.738      26,946     18.420      20,797      27,236      27,670     28.147      28,569      19.074     19,602      O,I160    20,812       20.851
l1     Ta                                   -           -      1,241       8,869      1.112     18,526      159.983     1 S120     14,647      14.060       3,335     12.561      21.805      10,956     20.102       9,500
it Opertila  tas  flow                        41438      47.145      44.233     45.611      31.56       37.111     31.224      36.950      31.113     31.152      37.213      27.261     31.261    3n.3;2        31t291     31,612
luling Capital                                 3.363        611      (6.4131      (606)    (1.1411         855         78S        m           855        88S         91T       1.003       1.626       1,1215                  839
.. . ...... _
hals bin"                                          0          0           0           0     21,684      23.924     21,736      21,658      27.        21t.7       2.65       21,765      21,165 21.     78T15    21,765     21.7
les: Costs of goo   Sold                           D          0           0           0      4.146       5.61      6.321       6.         6,315       6,351       8,319       6.408      61.33       8,46       61491       6.521
otht Costs                                  B           S           S          0       3.512      3.1$2       4.295       4.349      4,396       4,446       4,478      4.523       4,5s        4,431      4,47S        .4
Ioe Tau                                     0           0          0           0           0          0           0          0           o       2.648      2.665       5.33        5.332      5,u40       5.448       s,4
,---       ------       ------     - -  **- ---  ....                 ....       ....        ----        .....      ------      ------     ......      ..,....     ->- ,-  -.- -  - -- -
1t Oeirt2a  Cast iI.                               I          I           0           0     13,226      14.111     1t,122      11.021      I1.011     14.320      14.243      11,515     II2,4       11,I41      21,351     II.3
les: Capital   palen                           3,211     27,296      43.952      41,529                                      --                       -      -                     -                      -           -     (6.8I 1
las  lsegm      al lettln  Capial                  I          0           0          0       9.15t         790        429         (28)         14    (12.34)         112)    12.62)           S         46301      (4I)         22
flu:   sul tlus                                                     -           -          -           -           -                -           -          -           -           -           -                -            4996
. ...  ......    .. . ....        ....... .    . ......    .......    ......... ..........   .. .........    ------ .... ...    ------     ------      ----       -------    ----
let  acenlal Ca) Ha                          (3,9       (.1591   AS)   443,952)    (45292    4,069      13.621     16,103      21.03       16.987     16.954      14.255      14,118     11.444      II,S34     11.32       23.188
Flau al  ats of  ibn Is.5
::::::::::::::::::::::::  ::::::~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~



J-  DEM SEA IUDUSIRAL OM   PBGn=
BOlC 3R61 OF 311R3 CALCATICl
has Case
lie JWOoo of 1990O
1I99        3992        3993        3994         ISiS        196         139         1998        1999        2l00        2003         2002        2003        2004        2035         m0
vin noJctr
..8 .......O
Sales  tewease                                 81.260       54.480      ts.12m      93,013    115.209    111.540    M2AI35          121.002    121.231    121.411    121.111    121.4a1 121.411    121,471    121.411    121.411
Less: Costs of Goods Sold                       HA.6S4      23.435      22,132      23,039      2,015        t9,262      29.934      30.239      30.409       30.6918      0.919      31.191      33,452      31,106      31.915      3J2.14
OUler Costs                               t,06        6.999       1.321        1.638       9.460       9.911      10.591      11,081       11,566      12,093      32.56?      13.081      13.653       14.112      18.16N      141037
.... ...... . ......    ... .. ..    .. .. .....    ........    ------   ........... ..........    . ....... .... ....    ... ....    -------    ........ -----           .......    ------
let Operat     Casg   Flo                      512,538      58,045      59.5S4      62.396      11.695       78,300      80. t29     19. t18     29.261      18,680      17.955       t7,18       76,38       t5.653      14.968      74,31
torUleg Capital Ohages                          14.3461        323         7t2          412       8,034         81          1n           S4          128         133          9           98                      li 38       ice        13
3376W? F9OJ01T
Sales lRevene                                   31,250      84.490      89,128      930,3X      93.525      93.616       93.616      03.344      93,525      93.100      93,106       93,108      93,106      93,116      93,706      93,106
Less  Cot  of goo   Sold                        1.654       21.438      22.832      23.039      23.109      23,501       23,632      23,952      24,095      24.341      24K510       24,11       25.019      25,244      25.494      15.743
Other Coats                               1.010       899         7,321        7,638       1,941       6,328       8,691       9,U36       9.570       10,011      30.469      10.914      11,502      12,080       12.112    12.753
......      - ----      . . .....   .......  .. ... .        ... .. .    ......      -----       -----       ......      .......  ......          .......  - .-*- ---     . .....     ... ....
et Operatinl Csh Flow                           12,s53      5.045       59.5t4    62.386        62.,11      613.79      61,307       60.257      59,8861     59.32       58,641      57,942       51.1u5      56.382      5.91        5.232
haling Capital  awes                            14,346)        323         72          432          13U         129          I            0         123          124         98           1           39         109         IOI          lIO
* ICIDIMIL
Sales  ewe                                                       0           0           0      23,684      23,024      n1,738       21.658      21,131      2,ns        21,165       2,165       21n,s6      21,165      21,765      27,7
Ls: Costs of  ood  hid                               8           0           0           0 e       .946  5     .161       6.323       6.260       6,315       6.351       6.319       6.M          6,33        6.462       6.491       6.523   o
Otbet Cots                                    0           0            0           0       1.534        ,1652      1,895       1.949       1,196       2.046        2,018       2.113       2.151       2.031       2.871       2,687   O
......      ......      .....---  .   ....       ..... .     .....       ..... .     .....- - .  ......-      -----       ...... -     -       ....  - -----   - ----     ....         ......-
lt Operating Cash flo                                0           0           G           0      35,224      16.511       39.522      19,421      19.403      39.387      39,388       19.246      1S.103      19.23       19. In9     19.357
5s: Capital hlpe tw    peojtt                    3,113       1.,156     43.952       4,529            -           -                                   - -                       - ----I09
ku: lareal hrhmg capItal                             0           0           D            0      7,900          665         285          46)          5           t           II)         ll)         ()          ll)           )          (1t
nle    hsdual  a                                     -           -            -           -           -           -           -           *            -     -                 -           -           -           -            -       .1
- - -- - --    -- -@----    ----    -----    ------    -------6   .......    ....... .            .... .. .. *.- - - -   -  --    ----    -----    - - ^- - o-o--    -- -----    ----- - ...--.-  -----
t  Projec  tC    Flow                          (3.1191    1 1,3561   '4.91!)    (4.529)          1,325      3S,826       19,230      39,421      19,39S      10,161      19.30       13,241       39,102      19,2J       19.19       31.903
komlte hie Of ktn                   IT.$35
::::::::: ::::::-::::::: ::::::~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~I



-69 -                             Annex XI
JORDAN - DEAD SEA INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AMIABLE IN THE POJECT FILE
Reports and Studies relatint to the Prolect
1.   Arab Potash Company Ltd.
Production Expansion Pre-Feasibility Study
Prepared by Jacobs International Inc., January 1989, 1 Volume
2.   Arab Potash Company, Ltd.
Production Expansion Feasibility Study Report
Prepared by Jacobs International Inc., November 1990, 2 Volumes
3.   Arab Potash Project
Solar Evaporation System
Refinery Water Supply Study
Prepared by Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
(in association with the SKlC Institute of Hydrology)
December 1990, 1 Volume



- - t - - - ,  .   6                                       .IBRD 22881
E.                           vol< t  j  S Y R I A N                  7
-> ~~~~                  A RA B7
,7t' /   \  , 'ptl""t  ',REPUBLIC                                                             /
.'~~ ~ ~~~~~~~                ~            ~~~~~~            E P U '-'  L I  C  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N. t, .s}., \
(~~~~~~~~~~
JORDAN
INDUSTRIAL EXPORTS PROJECT
ARAB POTASH COMPANY
M         Refinery
O    Township
Evaporation Ponds
61 AbY*d   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~]               Storage and Shipwmet Facilities
1              t  oX ~~~~~~~~~AMUSINE W ASSF
U. Oil Refnery
4)     phospht Mnines
  National Capital
o      Cifies, Towns, Villages
Occupied Terrtorie
4~AirportS
I         -      Ma~~~in Roads
p...                              El isf, S\w ) hcndory Roads
-~--Railroads
Wadis
C~Pf ft-                                        \MudRat
Rivers
(              R.nNqbEl SShidlya                                                                                                            300
- *-  tSYRIAN ARAB A
/                      MttTf#d,RefineryREP
/ /< ^1 ' tEI i Se od Shipr/                                              SA'A                    -l  BAe
//  Rd,f,)   vH O   ;0-''J'n'                  t      Phc*eMfnes~~~~~~~~~~~IA                        A 
JOROAN
AAiA  /                                                                                                   A P  A *  Aip
$~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~II C /  |        \                                                                 'POOP -,05 I Rcilo
\~~~~~~~~~~ |6~7                                                          ..\0A                 A'POrA U"C
too    /    Rn fn flaqbt        o          \ Ala"El6't 0 4                                                                                30
FEBRUARY 1991



