Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3355 JO
               (Dead Sea Industrial Exports Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     ARAB POTASH COMPANY LTD.
                        Dated July 17, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3355 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the ARAB POTASH
COMPANY LTD. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB) a loan in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$16,000,000 (hereinafter "the IDB Loan") to assist in financing the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement (the
IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Articles of Association" means the Articles of
Association of the Borrower, dated February 1, 1978, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
      (b)   "By-laws" means the By-laws of the Borrower, dated
February 1, 1978, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
Page  3
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a
guarantee fee at the rate of four-fifths of one percent (4/5 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and
Page  4
outstanding from time to time.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to prepare designs and
specifications for the facilities to be constructed under the
Project, and thereafter to construct, and at all times operate and
maintain such facilities, in accordance with internationally
accepted environmental and ecological standards and to that end the
Borrower shall monitor and treat effectively all ecologically
harmful discharges from the facilities constructed under the
Project.
      Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the
preparation of basic and detailed design engineering, supervision of
Project construction and commissioning, equipment inspection,
contract administration, and preparation of maintenance manuals, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and industrial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and industrial practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all
measures necessary to maintain its corporate existence, to carry on
its operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all such rights,
powers, privileges, franchises and interests in land and water as
shall be necessary or useful for its operations.
      Section 4.05.  In order to facilitate the mobilization by the
Borrower of additional equity resources, particularly from the
private sector, to meet the requirements of its future investment
programs, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1992, for its comments, its strategy proposed for that
purpose.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
Page  5
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of
the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the
Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
Page  6
                   incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income, minus any adjustment
                         taking into account the Borrower's prices
                         in effect at the time of the incurrence of
                         debt even though they were not in effect
                         during the twelve-month period to which
                         such revenues relate, if such adjustment
                         would result in lower revenues; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to pro-
                         duction, operations, and marketing,
                         including administration, adequate
                         maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                         taxes, but excluding provision for
                         depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.
            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to
40.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
Page  7
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
          (iii)    The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
                   cover specific liabilities.
           (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.4:1.
      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
                   which could in the ordinary course of business
                   be converted into cash within twelve months,
                   including accounts receivable, marketable
                   securities, inventories, and pre-paid expenses
                   properly chargeable to operating expenses within
                   the next fiscal year.
           (ii)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes, and dividends.
          (iii)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
           (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Page  8
      Section 5.05. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower before making
investments in fixed assets or entering into commitments for the
making of such investments in excess of an aggregate equivalent of
eight million dollars ($8,000,000) in any one fiscal year, other
than investments and commitments for the Project.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Articles of Association or the By-laws shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement; and
      (b)   The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by May 31, 1992, or such later date as the Bank may agree;
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (c)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the IDB Loan Agreement, or
                   (B)   the IDB Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (d)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the contractual instruments relative
thereto, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
Page  9
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has acquired all such rights in respect of
water as are required for the carrying out of the Project, and that
such rights in respect of water are available for that purpose; and
      (b)   the IDB Loan Agreement has been duly signed by the
Borrower and IDB.
      Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Arab Potash Company
            P.O. Box 1470
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   POTASH                    1683-JO
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
Page  10
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                   ARAB POTASH COMPANY LTD.
                   By /s/ H. Hammami
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and             13,900,000        100% of foreign
    Materials                                   expenditures
(2) Consultants'                 100,000        100% of foreign
    Services                                    expenditures
    Under Part B
    of the Project
(3) Unallocated                1,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                15,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
increasing the output and efficiency of its potash production
facilities and in developing an investment strategy for new chemical
industries based on Dead Sea brine.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      (1)   Production Capacity. Increasing the efficiency of the
Borrower's potash refinery through technical improvements and
equipment upgrading, through: (a) introduction of a cold crystal-
lization process and auxiliary equipment; (b) improvements to the
beneficiation of the feedstock carnallite; (c) the provision of
compressors; and (d) the provision of solar pan equipment and
construction of new dikes.
Page  11
      (2)   Transport and Handling Capacity. Expanding the
Borrower's facilities for transport of potash, through: (a) pro-
vision of product haulage trucks; and (b) installation of a product
loading conveyor at Aqaba.
      (3)   Supply of Water. Increase of the supply of water to the
Borrower's refinery, through: (a) development of brackish water
supplies in the Dhira area; (b) provision of a gravity flow pipeline
from Dhira to the Borrower's refinery; (c) modification to the Safi
reservoir for brackish water storage; and (d) provision of addi-
tional facilities for freshwater storage.
Part B:
      Chemical Industries. Carrying out of a review of studies to
investigate the viability of utilizing residues from potash
operations and other raw materials for the production of chemical
products.
                          *      *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                        Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars)*
      On each January 15 and July 15
            beginning January 15, 1997
            through July 15, 2008               625,000
_____________________________
*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
Page  12
More than 15 years before                        1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Equipment and materials shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      With respect to each contract for equipment and materials, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  13
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
Page  14
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
