Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14617
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2155-GUI)
JUNE 16, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1995)
US$1   =   GNF978
GNF1   =   US$0.001
GNF1000   =   US$1.05
MEASURES
Im   =   1.09 yd
Im2   =   10.76sqft
I km2  =   0.38 sq mi
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAAF          Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financi&res
(Directorate of Financial and Administrative Affairs)
ENI           Ecole Normale d 'Instituteurs
(Primary Teacher Training College)
GOG           Government of Guinea
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IPN           Institut Pedagogique National
(National Education Institute)
MEN           Ministere de I 'Enseignement National
(Ministry of National Education)
MEPUFP        Ministere de l 'Enseignementpre-Universitaire et de la Formation Professionnelle
(Ministry of Pre-University Education and Vocational Training)
MESRSC        Ministere de I 'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche Scientifique et de la Culture
(Minisfry of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Culture)
PASE          Programme d Ajustement du Secteur de I 'Education
(Education Sector Adjustment Program)
SEEPU         Secretariat d'Etat pour I 'Enseignement pre-Universitaire
(State Secretariat for Pre-University Education)
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year                                                                    Academic Year
January 1- December 31                                                            October-June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IIPLEMENTATION COMPLEIION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSThIENT CREDIT
(CR. 2155-GUI)
CONTENTS
PREFACE.............
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................                                                     ii
I. INTRODUCTION                                     ....................................ii
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...... ...................................... ii
A. Project Objectives ...........................................                                         ii
B. Tranche Release Conditionalities .......................................... ii
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives ..........................................                           iii
HII. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .......................................... iii
A. Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability ..........................................               iii
(a)     Achievement of Objectives ..........................................                    iii
(b)     Sustainability .......................................... iv
B. Costs, Financing and Implementation Timetable ..........................................               iv
(a)     Costs ..........................................                                        iv
(b)      Financing ..........................................                                   iv
(c)     Implementation Timetable ..........................................                     iv
C. Key Factors Affecting Implementation ..........................................                        iv
D. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower ..........................................                    v
E. Project Outcome ..........................................                                             v
IV. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................... v
A. Key Lessons Learned .......................................... v
B. Future Operations ..........................................                                           v
PART I..1
A. Introduction ....................................                                                       I
B. Project Background .................................     .                                             2
C. Project Objectives and Description .................................                                   2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................. 3
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................. 5
F. Bank's Performance ................................. 6
G. Borrower's Performance ................................. 7
H. Assessment of Outcome .................................                                                7
1.  Project Sustainability and Future Operations .................................                        8
J.  Future Operations .................................                                                   8
K.  Key Lessons Learned ................................. 9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART  II.  STATISTICAL TABLES                                                                ..................................................... 11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .....................................................                                                                    11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .....................................................                                                                       12
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE .....................................................                                                                          13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS .....................................................                                                                      14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................   15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .....................................................                                                      16
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .....................................................                                                               17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ........................................ 18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .....................................................                                                                        18
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .....................................................                                                               18
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .....................................................                                                                19
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................. 21
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................                                                  21
TABLE  13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..............................................................                                                       22
APPENDICES ..............................................................                                                                                23
A.         Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.          Borrower contribution to the ICR
C.         Tranche Release Conditionalities
D.    Map IBRD 27095



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLMTION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTrMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2155-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (2155-GUI) in Guinea, for which the arnount of SDR 15.4 million (US$20.0 million) was
approved in June, 1990 and which became effective on January 14, 1991.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1994, after a one-year extension from the planned closing
date of June 30, 1993. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by the end of
FY91. The second tranche was subsequently released on March 2, 1993. The credit was fully disbursed
through a third tranche, released on March 8, 1994. Parallel financing for the project was provided by
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in the amount of US$29.1 million,
and the French Ministrre de la Cooperation et du Developpement in the amount of US$9.0 million
equivalent.
The ICR was prepared by Robert Prouty, Population and Human Resources Division, Western
Africa Department, Africa Region, and reviewed by Ok Pannenborg, Division Chief, and Emmerich S.
Schebeck, Project Advisor. The borrower provided comments that are included as an Appendix to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, which took place in
November 1994. It is based on material in the project file, data provided by the Ministry of Pre-
University Education and Vocational Training (Ministere de I 'eLucation pre-universitaire et de la
formation professionnelle, MEPUFP), field visits and discussions with Ministry officials. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire,
preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and implementation and commenting on the
draft ICR.






Hi
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2155-GUI)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     The project under review, Cr. 2155-GUI (SDR 15.4 million) follows Cr. 1341-GUI (SDR 10.2
million), which was implemented between 1983 and 1990, and Cr. 849-GUI (SDR 6.5 million), which
was implemented between 1978 and 1982. The previous credits supported basic education; enhancement
of educational planning and project implementation capacity; and vocational training. The first two
credits met most of their quantitative goals, but had a limited impact on the sector as a whole, and the
results of these credits showed the need to develop a coherent education and training policy framework
linked to the macroeconomic adjustment program. The project under review, hereafter referred to as the
PASE (Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel de l 'Education), was based on a new sectoral education policy
declaration and a comprehensive study of the education sector, and focused on administrative, financial
and educational reconstruction of the sector.
11. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. Project Objectives
2.1    The overall objective of the PASE was to support the first phase of the GOG's education sector
adjustment program. The PASE aimed to improve educational management, expand access to basic
education and enhance school quality, within structural adjustment constraints.
2.2    The objectives of the PASE were appropriate for the macroeconomic situation in Guinea and for
the education sector. They contained long-term sustainability measures, as well as immediate targets,
and were designed to produce a framework for the development of the education sector, emphasizing
expanded access to basic education.  The objectives were based on direct linkages with the
Government's structural adjustment policies and focused the attention of policy makers on the human
resource sector as a key part of the country's economic development. This careful design contributed to
the success of the GOG in implementing the adjustment program.
B. Tranche Release Conditionalities
1. Loan Covenants
2. Tranche Release Conditionalities
2.3    The following tranche release conditionalities were agreed upon:
*  adoption of a comprehensive statement of national policy for the educational sector;



iii
*  creation of a high-level committee to monitor the implementation of key policy changes, which
would meet at least four times a year and provide quarterly reports to the Structural Adjustment
Program (Programme d 'Ajustement Structurel, PAS) monitoring unit of the Government's economic
and financial coordinating committee and to the Bank;
*  creation of a senior sector coordination committee (Comite de Pilotage) to: (i) supervise Directorates
and implementing units; (ii) initiate proposals for program modifications as needed; and (iii)
monitor links between regular sector activities and the sector adjustment program;
*  adoption of minimum spending norms for teaching materials (2,800 GF per student/year) and
operational spending/administrative staff (210,000 GF per staff/year);
*  commitment to a recurrent budget permitting revision of spending norms and based on enrollment
increases;
*  increased resource budgeting for primary education (34% in 1990 and 35% in 1992) and operating
expenditures (16% in 1990 and 18% in 1992);
*  development of an implementation schedule for matching local community initiatives for school
construction with funds from the education sector budget;
*  preparation of a staffing strategy for 1990-1993 with targets for staff redeployment, training,
recruitment and staff utilization ensuring that 27% of all rural primary classes would operate with
multigrade teaching in 1993;
*  provision of evidence that operational plans are consistent with tranche release requirements.
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.4    Project objectives were appropriate for the country situation and the stage of development of the
education sector. They sought to establish an overall budget framework and stable financing for the
education sector as a prelude to follow-up operations to improve school-level inputs and processes.
They contained long-term sustainability measures as well as immediate targets. The objectives were
designed to encourage a comprehensive framework for the development of the education sector,
emphasizing growth and increased equity. They were based on direct linkages with the Government's
structural adjustment policies and focused the attention of policy makers on the human resource sector as
key for the country's economic development.
m. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A. Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability
(a)    Achievement of Objectives
3.1    Almost all of the project objectives were met. Implementation results can be summarized as
follows:



iv
*  Improving Educational Management: (a) roles and responsibilities of actors in the education
sector were redefined in support of greater school-level responsibility for student learning; and (b)
budgeting and personnel management procedures were completely overhauled.
*  Expanding Access to Basic Education: (a) gross enrollments increased from 28%  to 40%  and
girls' enrollment increased by 70% during the period of project effectiveness; and (b) 2032
classrooms were constructed or rehabilitated.
*  Enhancing School Quality: (a) a national evaluation of the educational system was conducted to
guide curriculum revision and instructional reform; (b) 400,000 third- and fourth- grade textbooks,
120,000 copies of a French first grade reader and 5000 teacher manuals were distributed to students
and teachers; (c) a new statute for teachers (Statut particulier) defining staffing norms was adopted;
and (d) 1847 education sector employees were redeployed from overstaffed secondary schools to
primary classrooms.
(b)    Sustainability
3.2    This project is likely to be sustainable for the following reasons: (a) the GOG remains strongly
committed to educational reform; (b) the project goals have widespread in-country support; (c) a follow-
up project which would reinforce the goals of the PASE was approved by the Board in May 1995; and
(d) donors involved in the PASE will continue to be involved in the sector.
B. Costs, Financing and Implementation Timetable
(a)    Costs. Total programn costs were approximately US$44.0 million equivalent, excluding
taxes. Support was provided by IDA (US$20.0 million equivalent), USAID (US$29.1 million
equivalent) and the French Fonds d'Aide et de la Cooperation CFAF (US$9.0 million
equivalent).
(b)   Financing. The IDA credit was disbursed in three tranches. The first was disbursed in
two parts and was fully released by the end of FY91. The second was released in March 1993
and the third in March 1994. The credit financed general imports subject to a negative list. The
foreign exchange costs of the sector and its direct import requirements were small and mostly
financed by bilateral and multilateral programs. The use of credit proceeds to finance general
imports not specifically tied to the sector was coherent with the need for central balance of
payments support.
(c)    Implementation Timetable. Tranche release dates are given above. The project was
closed on June 30, 1994, one year later than originally planned. Reasons for the delay are
given below.
C. Key Factors AfTecting Implementation
3.3    The successful implementation of this project was primarily due to: (a) strong Guinean political
commitment; (b) emphasis on a comprehensive educational framework and linkages to the
macroeconomic climate; (c) constructive coordination between donors; and (d) support by beneficiaries,
including communities and teachers.



v
3.4    The delay in the implementation of the project was primarily due to: (a) macroeconomic
constraints; (b) difficult working conditions; (c) slow disbursement of funds from the Treasury to
MEPUPF; and (d) delays in transfer of funds from central to regional offices.
D. Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
3.5    The Bank's performance in project preparation, appraisal and supervision was highly
satisfactory, due primarily to the competence of staff, frequent missions, and low turnover.
3.6    The Borrower's performance was also highly satisfactory.  The GOG was committed to
educational reform and demonstrated ownership of the objectives of the project from the preparation
stage. Ministry staff complied with all loan conditionalities and monitoring and reporting requirements
and created national enthusiasm for educational reform. Efficient administrative structures were created
and the management skills of sector personnel were enhanced.
3.6    The Bank-Borrower relationship was productive from the project identification stage throughout
the period of project effectiveness.
E. Project Outcome
3.7    The project outcome was highly satisfactory. All major objectives were achieved and a follow-
up project, the Equity and School Improvement Project, was developed to reinforce the achievements of
the PASE and broaden the education development emphasis in Guinea from the expansion of access to
include the enhancement of quality, specifically improvements in teaching and learning environments
and student learning outcomes. The Equity and School Improvement Project was approved by the
Board on May 9, 1995.
IV. KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
A. Key Lessons Learned
4.1    The leverage that results from using a broad sectoral approach can lead to meaningful change in
resource distribution across and within sub-sectors. During the implementation of the Guinea PASE, the
development of a coherent sectoral strategy attracted increased support from other donors. While this
ensured closer attention to donor coordination, it also led to implementation delays because of cross-
conditionalities of donors who, of necessity, had differing implementation schedules. While greater
financial stability was ensured by using existing structures to implement the PASE, this nevertheless was
a source of further implementation delays, largely due to inefficiencies in the Ministry of Finance. The
adjustment approach was highly successful in increasing the overall level of resources allocated to the
education sector, but it was less successful in ensuring timely delivery of specific education inputs.
B. Future Operations
The follow-up project, the Equity and School Improvement Project, approved on May 9, 1995,
targets school and classroom level interventions. It aims to further increase enrollment and completion
rates, improve decentralized management of school processes and student learning and strengthen
personnel and financial management.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2155-GN)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PART I.
A. Introduction
1.     Changes in Guinea's political climate in the 1980s, beginning with the change in
government in 1984, precipitated a reorientation of the country's development strategy and the
Bank's assistance program. In 1984, the GOG launched a structural adjustment plan in conjunction
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in an effort to improve the country's economic
situation; the Bank provided technical and financial support to improve implementation and direct
attention to the long-term effects of the structural adjustment plan, especially in terms of equity and
poverty reduction issues. The program was designed to free the economy from pervasive state
control, gradually switch to a market orientation and improve administrative efficiency. Due to
severe economic problems, the Government initially targeted  its reforms at the country's
macroeconomic structure, delaying reforms in the social sectors.
2.     The GOG's initial program of reforms included the following targets: (a) achieving 5% average
annual economic growth; (b) decreasing inflation by ten percentage points between 1989 and 1995; (c)
devaluing the Guinean franc to increase international competitiveness; (d) reducing the current account
deficit to 5.1 % of GDP; and (e) restoring available foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of 4.3
months of non-mineral imports.
3.     Although these reforms were implemented, the macroeconomic situation in Guinea was so
difficult that the GOG continued to require concessional funding and support for debt relief. GNP grew
by 4.3% per year between 1985 and 1990, but then by only 2.8% per year from 1990 to 1992, mainly
due to a drop in mineral earnings and increasing interest rates on the country's public debt. Guinea's
projected current account deficit was $298 million in 1990-1992.
4.     This deficit considerably restricted the availability of public funds for recurrent expenditures.
Recurrent expenditures declined by 6% in real terms between 1989 and 1992, a decrease of GF 75.5
billion (US$92 million). The situation was further aggravated by factors such as mandated salary
increases for all civil servants following civil service reform and gaps in balance of payments (BOP)
financing, due to reserve accumulation targets set in the economic recovery plan.
5.     Related to the macroeconomic situation, resources for the education sector shrank and
operations were reduced to minimal levels. In 1989, only 28% of primary school-aged Guinean
children were enrolled in school. Only 10% of children who entered primary school completed the six-
year cycle. School enrollment rates at all levels were declining, due to increasing household-level
poverty, civil strife and decreasing educational quality.



2
B. Project Background
6.     Although the GOG felt that reform of the macroeconomic sector should be its priority, dialogue
between the GOG and IDA emphasized that development of the human resource sector would be critical
to the future productivity of the country. In order to improve operations in the sector, the GOG decided
to pursue a sectoral adjustment program, linked to macroeconomic conditions and reforms. Given the
balance of payments deficit, the procedures of adjustment lending, offering support through the regular
budgetary process, seemed the most appropriate.
7.     Support for the operation was provided by IDA  (SDR 15.4 million), USAID  (US$29.1
equivalent) and the French Ministere de la Coope'ration et du Developpement (US$9 million equivalent).
Eighty percent of USAID funding was in the form of general debt relief. An undisbursed tranche of the
Second Education Project (Cr. 1341-ON), of approximately US$ 500,000, was reallocated for project
preparation. Local contributions for school construction were encouraged and matched with funds from
the Guinean Treasury.
8.    IDA and national counterpart funds were not earmarked directly for the sector, nor for specific
expenditures. Actions included in the reform program were to be funded using standard public finance
procedures and fund disbursement was to be based on compliance with conditionalities for tranche
release.
C. Project Objectives and Description
9.     The key objective of the project, hereafter referred to as the PASE (Programme d'Ajustement
Sectoriel de 1'Education), was to support the first phase of the GOG's sector adjustment program. The
PASE aimed to improve educational management, expand access to basic education and enhance school
quality within structural adjustment constraints. Priority was given to expanding basic education
services, increasing administrative capacity, rationalizing budgeting procedures and increasing allocated
resources.
10.    Specific activities planned to support the adjustment process included programs to: (a) increase
the efficiency of management and resource allocation and use at the central and regional levels; (b)
supply textbooks and teacher's guides to schools; (c) revise primary pre- and in-service teacher training
for traditional and multigrade classrooms; (d) expand access to basic education through the rehabilitation
and construction of primary schools; (e) improve management of education personnel; and (f) conduct
studies to address the barriers to girls' participation in the educational system and develop educational
policy through a determination of priority issues in higher education and vocational training.
11.    Project objectives were appropriate for the country situation and the stage of development of the
education sector. They sought to establish an overall budget framework and stable financing for the
education sector as a prelude to follow-up operations to improve school-level inputs and processes.
They contained long-term sustainability measures as well as immediate targets. The objectives were
designed to encourage a comprehensive framework for the development of the education sector,
emphasizing growth and increased equity. They were based on direct linkages with the Government's
structural adjustment policies and focused the attention of policy makers on the human resource sector as
key for the country's economic development.



3
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.    This section will concentrate on the achievement of key activities that were implemented to
support the GOG's adjustment process.
13.    Measures to improve sector management and resource allocation and use. Achievement of
objectives in this component was substantial, as implementation resulted in an appropriate, focused
reformulation of sectoral policy. The following specific actions were carried out:
* Leadership roles and responsibilities at the Ministry of National Education (Ministere de
l'Enseignement Nationale, MEN) were redefined and the Ministry was restructured into two
Ministries: the Ministry for Pre-University Education and Vocational Training (Minisr2re de
1'enseignement pre-universitaire et de la formation professionnelle, MEPUFP) and the Ministry of
Higher Education, Scientific Research and Culture (Ministere de 1'enseignement superieur, de la
recherche scientifique et de la culture, MESRSC).
* A monitoring committee (Comite de Suivi) was established to monitor budgets and control
expenditures and a steering committee (Comite de Pilotage) was established and made responsible
for control of the PASE and overall sectoral coordination.
* Several support services were put in place or restructured, including units for financial and
administrative affairs, for the collection and analysis of educational data and school mapping and for
school construction and rehabilitation.
e An Inspectorate of Education was established, to strengthen school inspection and supervision and to
support National Directorates, which have oversight responsibilities for pre- and in-service teacher
training.
* A technical secretariat, consisting of one senior member of Ministry staff and two international
consultants was established and directly involved in decision-making.
* New staffing norms were established and a computerized personnel tracking system to facilitate
personnel monitoring and evaluation was developed and implemented.
* The GOG's education budget increased from US$22.8 million in 1990 to US$76.0 million in 1994
(recurrent and investment budgets). Between 1991 and 1994, allocations for primary education,
excluding administrative costs and as a percentage of the sectoral budget, increased from 34% to
35%. Non-salary expenditures increased to 21%, well above the 18% required by project
conditional ities.
* Difficulties in the implementation of this component resulted from insufficient coordination within
and between Ministries, limited resources and incompletely executed budgets. Budget execution was
usually 75% to 80% of planned amounts.
14.    Supply of Textbooks and Teacher's Guides. Achievement in this area was substantial. The
following actions were implemented:



4
*  400,000 third- and fourth- grade textbooks made available through the Second Education
Project were distributed.
* Two new French first grade readers were created by the National Pedagogic Institute
(Institut PeLagogique National, IPN). 120000 student copies and 5000 accompanying
teacher's manuals were distributed. All first grade teachers were trained in the use of these
books.
*  An official list of textbooks was established for Ministry approval.
*  Teacher's guides were prepared for a variety of subjects.
15.    Teacher Training. Achievement in this area was only partial. The goal of training 8000
teachers and administrative personnel was not achieved, largely due to inadequate funding for
replacement teachers and conflicts created by overlapping and ill-defined responsibilities among the
institutions involved.
16.    Modest gains were made in addressing issues in teacher training, including: (a) the development
and use of cascade methods to train large numbers of teachers; (b) in-service training for multigrade
class teachers; and (c) training in textbook use.
17.    The proposed increase in the number of multigrade classrooms was revised during the project,
due to differences in strategies endorsed by varied actors in the sector and such high levels of demand
for education that, once classrooms were opened to more than one grade, they quickly became crowded
with sufficient numbers of students to support the opening of additional classrooms with traditional
classroom arrangements. At the end of the project, only 248 classrooms were multigrade, representing
2.44% of Guinean classrooms, far short of the initial goal of 27%. On the other hand, the number of
rural students enrolled in primary school in general far exceeded the targets.
18.    Expansion of Access to Basic Education. Achievement in this area was substantial. In 1992,
there were 8415 functioning classrooms in the Guinean primary system, and 2590 schools. By 1994, the
number of classrooms had increased to 10445, and the number of schools to 2849. This increase of
2032 classrooms comprised 346 renovated and 1684 new classrooms. Of these, 504 were constructed
solely with Guinean resources, and 1526 were constructed with at least partial assistance from donors.
These classrooms were built following low cost, community-based construction norms developed under
a three year pilot program (over 280 primary classrooms were built under the pilot program itself). A
new three-room school model was also developed and widely used during the project, as an alternative
to the one-room school prevailing in many rural areas.
19.    Local contributions to school construction costs were estimated at about 10% of total costs.
Construction funds were matched by the Government, increasing the motivation of communities to
contribute to the local education system.
20.    The gross primary school enrollment rate increased from 32% to 40% during the project, well
above the enrollment target of 37%. The primary school intake rate in 1994 was 70%, 10% well above
the target of 60%. However, serious gender and urban/rural disparities in enrollment remain. Although
girls' gross primary enrollment increased by 70% during project effectiveness, their enrollment rate
remained only 27%, well below the 53% rate for boys. Rural areas also lag in enrollment rates.



5
Enrollment statistics suggest that almost 50% of enrollments are in urban areas, although 73% of the
Guinean population lives in rural areas (1992). Rural schools tend to be small and isolated, with limited
resources and opportunities for teachers to work together, and correspondingly lower educational
quality.
21.    Management of Education Personnel.  Achievement of objectives in this component was
substantial. The following actions were carried out: (a) new guidelines for teachers (Statut Particulier)
were adopted, defining teacher qualifications, guiding teacher redeployment, recruitment and training
programs and establishing the minimum number of hours of secondary school teaching at 18 hours
(there had been no previous minimum and the average number of hours taught per week had been 12
hours); and (b) 1827 secondary school teachers and administrative personnel were redeployed for
teaching at the primary level and have been included in retraining action plans.
22.    Studies of the Education Sector. The two principal studies planned under this component were
carried out as follows:
*      Girls' Participation in the Education System. The project supported a classroom-
based study of girls' participation in education and socio-cultural barriers to that
participation and a nationwide media campaign to raise awareness of the importance of
girls' education and preparations for future studies.
Higher Education and Vocational Training. A policy paper based on a study of
higher education is being used to design a program of reforms for higher education and
research institutions, and another policy paper addressing vocational and technical
training issues has been prepared by the GOG.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.    The factors affecting project implementation can be classified as: (a) factors not subject to
sectoral control; (b) factors subject to sectoral control; and (c) factors subject to the control of the
implementing agencies.
(a)    Factors not generally subject to sectoral control included:
(i)    macroeconomic constraints, including a large balance of payments deficit and declining
trade earnings; and
(ii)    difficult working conditions, including the extremely limited capacity of Guinea's
communication, utility and transportation systems.
(b)   Factors subject to sectoral control included:
(i)   slow disbursement of funds from the Treasury to MEPUPF, due in part to inexperience
with the procedures required by the project, and to differences between the fiscal year
and the school year;
(ii)    delays in transfer of funds from the central administration to regional offices,
due to unfamiliar administrative procedures and limited liquidity;



6
(iii)   insufficient budgetary monitoring by the project's Steering Committee, which
delayed the joint donor review required for tranche clearance;
(iv)   large salary increases for the civil service and resulting budget arrears in 1991-92,
which forced spending cuts and created inconsistencies between macroeconomic policy
and program objectives, particularly in the areas of non-salary spending norms.
(c)   Factors subject to the implementing agencies' control included:
(i)   delays in provision of training in new budgeting and accounting procedures;
(ii)   strategic differences between donors over construction norms, which led to
delays in the implementation of some project components;
(iii) indicators used to monitor project objectives were insufficiently specific and contributed
to difficulties in monitoring progress in some areas (i.e., qualitative inputs in multigrade
teaching, textbook availability, teacher training).
F. Bank's Performance
24.    Bank missions began to discuss the need for an education sector adjustment program with the
GOG in early 1988, beginning the process of project identification. Dialogue between the Bank and
the GOG convinced the GOG that it would be important to link sectoral policy to macroeconomic
strategy. The contribution of the Bank at this point was to convince the GOG of the need to make
human resources a priority within the country's development strategy and to establish a comprehensive
educational policy framework. The decision to prioritize basic education and work toward an equitable
expansion of the system was a substantial departure from the previous regime's educational policy, with
its emphasis on higher education at the expense of other levels.
25.    At the project preparation stage, the Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. Continuous
dialogue between the GOG and the Bank helped to allay GOG concerns about the management
complexities of linking sectoral and macroeconomic objectives. Between 1989 and 1990, the Bank
provided technical and financial assistance to conduct numerous studies and seminars to enhance project
development and widen ownership of the future project.
26.    Project appraisal identified and clarified key issues to be addressed in sector management,
budgeting, school construction and educational quality; and developed an institutional and local readiness
for educational change. Prior to negotiations, impressive achievements had been made in the areas of
educational policy and the development of administrative frameworks to support project implementation.
IDA underestimated the needs for training in management procedures, however, and resulting Borrower
delays in compliance with conditionalities for tranche release contributed to a one year delay in the
program calendar.
27.    The Bank's performance during project supervision was highly satisfactory. Staff turnover
during project effectiveness was minimal and the Education Specialist who was the primary Task
Manager was able to devote sufficient resources to project supervision.



7
28.    The Bank's performance in preparing for project continuity also has been highly satisfactory.
The preparation of the follow-up Equity and School Improvement Project, was carefully conducted and
involved considerable community participation and study, in addition to consultation with a wide range
of actors in the education sector.
29.    Donor coordination was positive and productive, despite some differences in strategy and
approach. Donors met regularly, with meetings taking place an average of twice monthly throughout
the period of project effectiveness.
30.    The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was very positive. The Resident Mission
in Conakry was helpful in project implementation and in facilitating the relationship between the Bank
and the Borrower.
G. Borrower's Performance
31.    Following the decision to adopt a sector adjustment approach, the GOG became extremely
active in project preparation and committed to implementing substantial reform. National and regional
seminars encouraged awareness of key educational issues, generated enthusiasm for reform and trained
Ministry staff and teaching personnel. Studies were conducted on school construction, teacher training,
teaching and learning materials and equity issues. The results of the seminars and studies were used to
design a sector policy framework and identify development priorities. Political conflicts, resource
constraints and weak institutional capacity reduced the efficiency of the process, but overall performance
in the preparation and appraisal stages of the project was satisfactory.
32.    Prior to project effectiveness, the GOG complied with all IDA requests for required documents
pertaining to conditionalities, and designed effective project administration procedures. During project
implementation, compliance with loan conditionalities and monitoring and reporting requirements was
highly satisfactory. During the first year of effectiveness, the GOG developed viable plans for the
implementation of the proposed educational reforms. As this was an adjustment project, there were no
major procurement issues.  Procurement against a negative list decreased tranche release delays.
Significant disbursement delays occurred within the context of the national budget due to insufficient
coordination with the Ministry of Finance and lack of liquidity, but the Ministry ultimately disbursed
79% of the non-salary operating budget for pre-university education, which was satisfactory and
exceeded targets.
33.    By 1992, the PASE had mobilized public opinion nationwide in support of educational reform.
It had developed an efficient administrative structure and enhanced the management skills of its staff,
which will contribute to the sustainability of the project and to the effective implementation of the
follow-up project. Although mechanisms designed to ensure broad government participation in support
of policy dialogue in education were generally less successful than hoped for, sectoral perfornance
exceeded expectations. Borrower performance is thus rated highly satisfactory.
H. Assessment of Outcome
34.    The project outcome was highly satisfactory. Most of the project objectives were achieved: a
clear policy framework for the sector was established, educational management was strengthened,
staffing norms were established and respected, financing of the sector was rationalized, and access to
basic education increased. The operation supported the overall macroeconomic program, extended
reforms to the education sector and increased allocations to the sector, the main goals cited in the



8
President's Report. The follow-up project, the Equity and School Improvement Project, will reinforce
and expand the achievements of the PASE.
I. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
35.    The Bank team concentrated on the project's quality and soundness early in the project cycle, in
order to increase the likelihood of sustainability.  A declaration of sector policy; agreement on
institutional arrangements for management restructuring, monitoring and evaluation; and commitment
to meet conditions for effectiveness such as the development of a local matching fund, staffing plan, a
plan to limit grade repetition, improve the textbook distribution system and guarantee minimum
spending levels for pedagogical inputs were established early.
36.    The likelihood that the achievements of the PASE will be financially sustained is increased by
the efficiency gains, increased generation of local resources, increased ability to propose and monitor
sector budgets and budgetary action plans and increased budgetary allocations from the Treasury
stimulated by the project. Government projections for 1995 and 1996 show trends of incrementally
increasing allocations for recurrent expenditures, indicative of the sector's continued access to sufficient
resources to meet the tranche release conditionality levels of the PASE. The GOG continues to have
severe resource constraints, however, and donor assistance will continue to be necessary for the
operation and enhancement of the educational system over the short and medium terms.
J. Future Operations
37.    The PASE was designed as the first phase in a long-term reform process. The proposed follow-
up project will support continued sector development, sustaining the achievements of the PASE while
promoting further investment for institutional development, management improvement, and educational
expansion and consolidation.   The follow-up project emphasizes school- and classroom-based
interventions, and promotes girls' participation in education, as well as textbook distribution,
construction, and school nutrition.
38.    The Equity and School Improvement Project will not be funded through a sectoral adjustment
loan (SECAL), but through an investment loan. This is for several reasons:
E The adjustment approach was appropriate in a time of severe crisis, when the priority was
to rapidly increase the amount of funds available to the sector. It is less appropriate at
present, as sector funding has stabilized at a reasonable level and the key issue is to ensure
timely delivery of goods and services;
* The adjustment approach was the only appropriate lending instrument when the PASE was
prepared, because of the extremely low capacity of the education sector to prepare and
execute budgets. Now, after three years of training and experience, the education sector is
probably the most capable sector in the Government in the areas of budget management,
and it is developing an acceptable oversight and audit capacity;
* The Equity and School Improvement Project emphasizes school-level support for teaching
and learning. This decentralized agenda means that resource distribution must be efficient.
The sector must be able to respond to, and provide timely funding for, promising new
strategies. This will not happen if all funds are controlled centrally and disbursed



9
sporadically by the Ministry of Finance, as has been the case during the past two years due
to the country's weak macroeconomic situation.
K. Key Lessons Learned
39.    The key lesson to be learned from  the success of the PASE is that complex projects,
encompassing a range of interventions, can be successfully undertaken, if they are situated within a
coherent policy framework and given intensive supervision. The PASE demonstrated the importance of
long-term policy frameworks and plans for system support. The first phase of the intervention was
implemented as planned and was successful. The second phase, the Equity and School Improvement
Project, focuses on further improvements in enrollment and support for increasing educational quality,
using the experiences gained during the PASE.
40.    The following lessons apply across sectors, and may also be useful for operations in other
countries in the region:
*  The leverage that comes from taking a broad sectoral approach can lead to meaningful changes in
resource distribution across and within sub-sectors. Guinea moved dramatically towards increasing
support for primary schooling, especially in rural areas, and for non-salary inputs. The success of
the politically sensitive redeployment of teachers from secondary to primary classrooms is further
evidence of the implications of this leverage;
- The provision of external funds through the budget process, rather than through direct project
financing, can result in a situation in which the sector is penalized because of implementation
obstacles posed by other ministries. In a sense, this approach gives the Ministry of Finance a virtual
line-item veto over budgetary expenditures. In Guinea, tranche release was delayed for six months
in 1992, due to the failure of the Ministry of Finance to make budget resources available to the
sector, and of the Ministry of Plan to adhere to the investment priorities of the PASE;
-  The development of a coherent sectoral strategy approved by the Bank can help to attract support
from other donors. It can also help move donors away from programs that place heavy short-term
burdens on the poor.  This requires long and strenuous dialogue with top ministry officials
regarding the importance of donor coordination. To the extent that government goes along with
donor-assisted projects that don't reflect the government's stated priorities, valuable resources will
be misallocated and/or wasted, which can have a strong negative impact on education's contribution
to poverty alleviation.  Although real progress was made in this regard in Guinea, constant
monitoring within the sector was needed to ensure that other donor resources were used for priority
projects;
* There are poverty implications when sector adjustment programs linked to macroeconomic
performance are adopted. For instance, although all project-related conditions for second tranche
release were met, release of the tranche was held up for months, awaiting the IMF's approval of the
macroeconomic framework. This exacerbated central funding delays and money was often not
available when needed, particularly for the poorest, most remote rural areas.  An investment
approach could have alleviated this difficulty and will be used in the follow-up project;
*  Much greater financial sustainability is achieved when existing financial structures are used.
However, training (and in countries in Guinea's situation, technical assistance) should be provided



10
to budget officers at all levels of the system before credit effectiveness, so that they will be ready to
handle their greatly-increased and substantially-changed responsibilities when the funds begin to
flow.
41.    Both the Bank and the Borrower required two to three years to respond to identified needs with
new approaches. This was about how long it took Guinea to start revising its teacher in-service and pre-
service training and to start taking advantage of lessons in quality improvements learned through a
multigrade teaching component. It also took that long for the Government of Guinea (in collaboration
with donors, including the World Bank) to begin developing new approaches in support of girls'
schooling. Experimentation and testing should be a part of all operations and much more emphasis
should be placed on developing a "learning" approach.



I1
PART Il. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement or                                                                          Not
Objectives                         Substantial  Partial        Negligible         Applicable
Macro policies                      [XX]       I          I   I                        I   I
Sector policies                     [XX]          [   I I            II   I
Financial objectives                [XX]          I   I          [                         I
Institutional development           I   I         [XX]           I   I                 [   I
Physical objectives                 [XXI          I   I          [   I                 [   I
Poverty reduction                   [XX]          I   I          [   I                 [  i
Gender issues                       I   I         [XX]           I                     [ I
Other social objectives             [I       I      I       I        I                 [XXI
Environmental objectives            [I       I      I       I        I                 [XXI
Public sector management            [XX]          I   I          [   I                 I   I
Private sector development          I   I         [   ]          [XXI                     I
Other (specify)                     [I              I                I                 [XX]
B. Project sustainability            Likely               Unlikely      Uncertain
[XX]I                    I 
C. Bank performance                 Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      [XX]                  [   I         [  1
Preparation Assistance              [XX3                  [   I         [  I
Appraisal                           [   I                 [XX]          [  I
Supervision                         [XX]                  [   I         [  I
D. Borrower performance              Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                         [XX]                      I         I  I
Implementation                      I  I                  [XXI          I  I
Covenant Compliance                 [XX]                      I         I  I
Operation                           I   I                 [XX]          I  I
E. Assessment of outcome            Highly
satisfactory         Satisfactory   Deficient
[XXI                [I  [I 



12
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title                   Purpose                  Year of        Status
Approval
Previous
Operations:
1. Education I     To expand and improve technical         1978      Closed: 1982
(Cr.849-GUI)      training programs and strengthen the
SDR 6.5 million     country's educational planning and
project implementation capacities.
1. Education II    To improve vocational training, primary  1983        Closed:
(Cr.1341-GUI)      education, and manpower planning.
SDR 10.2 million    Redesigned at mid-term review to expand             12/31/1990
access to primary education, upgrade
teacher qualifications, and improve use
of vocational and teacher training facili-
ties.
Following Operation:
Equity and School    The follow-up project aims to increase  1995
Improvement Project  primary enrollment and completion rates,
(Cr.2719-GUI)      with a strong focus on girls and students
SDR 28.5 million    in rural areas; strengthen decentralized
management of school processes and
student learning; and improve personnel
and financial management.
Source: Bank SARs



13
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned                Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                    February 1988               February 1988
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                       November 1988               November 1988
Appraisal                         May 1989                    May 1989
Negotiations                      April 1990                  May 2-4, 1990
Letter of Education Policy        October 1989                October 1989
Board Presentation                June 1990                   June 1990
Signing                           July 1990                   September 28, 1990
Effectiveness                     November 14, 1990           January 14, 1991
First Tranche Release             January 1991                January 1991
(if applicable)
Mid-term Review                   June 1991                   February 1992
(if applicable)
Second Tranche Release            January 1992                March 2, 1993
Third Tranche Release             June 1992                   March 8, 1994
Project Completion                June 30, 1993               June 30, 1994
Loan Closing                      June 30, 1993               June 30, 1994
Sources: Bank IEPS, FEPS, SAR, Supervision reports.



14
TABLE 4:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(IN US$ MILLION) *
Calendar Year           1991               1992               1993             1994
Appraisal Estimate            4,000,000         6,000,000         13,000,000      20,000,000
Actual                        4,371,079         6,536,698         14,030,415      21,524,132
Actual as % of                    109%              109%               108%            108%
estimate
Date of                                                                        March 8, 1994
final disbursement
* This was an adjustment credit, consisting of three tranches. The first tranche was disbursed in two
parts. Fluctuations in the value of the SDR account for the uneven dollar amounts.
Source: SAR and LOAAF



15
TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Policy Measures                          Estimated        Actual
1. Adopt the Statement of Sector Policy as the overall framework for  1990-94     1990-94
guiding Govt. and donors interventions in the sector.
2. Develop decentralized mechanisms for funding school-level            1991         1992
activities.
3. Introduce new school construction standards to reduce capital costs,  1990        1991
based on the use of local materials.
4.     Establish minimum spending norms for non-salary inputs for       1990         1991
teaching materials:
a)     Primary/pupil/year: GF 2800, or the equivalent of
US$4.0
b)     Secondary level: the equivalent of US$15.0
c)     Technical schools: the equivalent of US$86.0
d)     Teaching Training: the equivalent of US$153.0
e)     Higher Education: the equivalent of US$430.0
Establishing minimum spending norms for non-salary
inputs for operation spending/administration staff.
f)     Staff/year: GF 210,000 or the equivalent of staff/Year
US$300
5. Establish specifications for the production of school books and      1990         1991
other supplies.
6. Promote private education at all levels:
a)     Facilitating access to land and building permits
b)     Limited subsidies for non-salary learning materials.
7. Match funds of local community initiatives in school construction    1991         1992
8. Increase education allocations:                                      1992         1993
a)     Overall, to increase proportion of education budget
expenditures to 18% of total budget.
b)    Increase budget for primary education, to 35% of total
education budget.
* As no performance indicator table was provided in the SAR or the President's Report, these have
been assembled from the Tranche Release Conditionalities.



16
TABLE 6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Project Impact to be      Actions Being Taken          Issues Remaining         Actions
Maintained                                                                 Planned
Decentralized funding  To be supported by Equity and   Decentralized audit    Personnel for
for school-level activities  School Improvement Project  capacity does not yet  decentralized
exist                   audit unit have
been hired and
will be trained
Use of new school       To be supported by Equity and   Weak technical capacity   NGO
construction standards    School Improvement Project  of construction unit    management of
construction
currently being
pilot tested
Maintenance of         Included in Govt.'s statement of  Non-salary operating  Annual budget
established budget     Education Sector Policy       budgets remain low       review
allocations between
levels & items.
Use of specifications for  MEPUFP staff in process of  Coordination with     Join missions
production of books &   developing detailed           USAID remains to be     with USAID
supplies                specifications                defined                 and annual
reviews
Expansion of private    To be supported by Equity and   Potential for expansion    Pre-investment
education              School Improvement Project    is unknown              studies
Maintain staff         Training programs being       Secondary school -level   Functional audit
redeployment & continue  developed with French Ministry  inefficient use of   of secondary
recruitment & training    of Cooperation support     personnel               schooling



17
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study           Purpose as defined at          Status         Impact of the study
appraisal/redefined
1. Girls' Education    To survey school        Completed at Ap-       Influenced
enrollment of girls in    praisal             development of
the country, with                             policies promoting
special attention to                          girls' education.
situation in rural areas.
2. Survey of School    Classroom level study    Completed in March    Results used to
Enrollment of Girls in  to determine barriers to   1994               develop Equity and
Rural Areas.           girls' participation in                        School Improvement
education, and develop                        Project.
strategies to increase
girls' participation and
achievement. Also exa-
mined effects of educa-
tion on girls' lives and
communities.
3. Higher Education    Examine the quality and  Completed.            Used to develop
efficiency of higher                          strategies to
education, determine                          reorganize higher
development priorities.                       education in the
Examine the costs and                         Higher Education
future financing of non-                      Management
pedagogical living                            Support Project.
expenses for higher
education students, as a
basis for gradual
containment of govern-
ment spending in this
area.
4. Study on Technical  To review technical,    Completed              Contributed to
Education and          vocational and profes-                         Government's
Training.              sional training, at post-                      Statement of Policy
primary and post-                             for Vocational
secondary levels.                             Training.
Source: Bank Reports.



18
TABLE 8A:   PROJECT COSTS
Not applicable, as credit financed general imports, subject to negative list.
TABLE 8B:   PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)
Source                          Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
(n/a) 1/    (n/a)               (n/a)     (n/a)
IBRD/IDA                                              20                            21.6
Cofinancing Institutions                              24                            38.1
(USAID, FAC)
Other External Sources
Domestic Contribution
Total                                                 44                            59 .7
1/ Not applicable, as credit financed general imports, subject to negative list.
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR), and therefore there is no baseline against which to compare current estimates. Furthermore,
no parameters were given at appraisal with regard to cost-effectiveness



TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DCA                      DESCRIPTION OF                      COVENANT          PRESENT    ORIGINAL           REVISED       COMMENTS
REFERENCE                       COVENANT                            TYPE            STATUS       FULFILL-        FULFILL-
MENT   MENT DATE
DATE
Article 1,        Section 2.01 para.9, shall be modified to read  General Conditions    C         N/A
Section 1.01 a)   project means the imports & other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the credit
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule I to the
DCA.
Article I,        Section 9.09 c) shall be modified to read: not  General Conditions    C         12/93         12/94
Section 1.02 b)    later than 6 months after the closing date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower & IDA, the Borrower
shall prepare & furnish to IDA a report, of such
scope & detail as IDA shall reasonably request,
on the program referred to in the preamble to the
DCA, the performance by the Borrower & IDA
of their respective obligation under the DCA &
the accomplishment of the purposes of the
credit.
The Borrower & IDA shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the
program & the actions specified in schedule 3 of                  c            N/A           N/A
this agreement.
Article III,       Prior to each such exchange of views, the   Monitoring/reviews    C            N/A           N/A
Section 3.01 b)   borrower shall furnish to IDA for its review &
comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the program, in such detail as IDA
shall reasonably request.
Article III,       Except as IDA shall otherwise agree,        Procurement          C             N/A           N/A
Section 3.02      procurement of goods to be financed out of
proceeds of the credit shall be governed by the
provisions of schedule 2 to this agreement.



Article III,        The borrower shall: i) have records & accounts    Accounts          C              N/A            N/A
Section 3.03 a)     referred to in para a) of this section including
those of the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; ii) fumish to IDA as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
three months after the end of such year, a
certified copy of the audit report by said
auditors, of such scope & detail as IDA should
have reasonably requested; & iii) fumish to IDA
such other information conceming said records
& accounts & the audit thereof as IDA shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Article 111,        For all expenditures with respect to which      Audits              C              N/A             N/A
Section 3.03 c)     withdrawals for the credit account were made on
the basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall: i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in                                                                                                     C
accordance with para a) of this section, records
& accounts reflecting such expenditures; ii)
retain, until at least one year after IDA has
received the audit reports for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the credit
account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts & other documents,
evidencing such expenditures; iii) enable IDA's
representatives to examine such records; and iv)
ensure that such records & accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in para b) of this
section & that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the SOEs submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures & intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
Source: DCA and Supervision Reports.



21
TABLE 11:  COMPLIANCE WITII OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
BORROWER COMPLIED WITH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS.
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle      Planned              Revised               Actual
Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal      N/A       N/A       69.40     208,200    116.9      * 205,900
Appraisal through Board                    25.40      76,200    11.9       121,200
Approval
Board Approval through                     10.40      31,200               20,400
Effectiveness
Supervision                                68.40     205,200    122.7      244,200
Completion            _                    08.00      24,000    2.0        33,000
Grand Total                                181.60    544,800    253.5      704,700
Source: Bank Supervision Reports
* Based on an average cost of US$3,000/week.



TABLE 13:   BANK REsouUcES; MISSIONS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE            MONTII/         NO.OF          DAYS         SPECIALIZED         PERFORMANCE RATING                             TYPES OF PROBLEMS
YE-AR        PERSONS           IN         STAFF SKILLS
FIELD       REPRESENTED
IMPLEMEN-    DEVELOP-
TATION           MENT
STATUS          IMPACT
THROUGH APPRAISAL                1/88           2              13            A,EP,               N/A               N/A           N/A
4/88           2              9             EP,E
10/88           I             7             EP,
11/88          6              20            A,E,EP,ES,
4/89            I             5             EP,
APPRAISAL                       6/89             I             14            EP,                 N/A               N/A           N/A
THROUGH
BOARD                           9/89            4              18            E,A,
APPROVAL                        12/89            1             18            EP,
2/90            I             30            EP,
BOARD APPROVAL                  10/90           3              12            EP,A,
THROUGH EFFECTIVENESS    1                      3A
SUPERVISIONS                    5/91            3              13            SE,E,GE,            2                 2             5/91. Project implementation has not advanced as planned. 
First, counterpart funds have not been nmade available by the
10/91          3              10            SE,GE,             3                  2             Treasury to the MOE and second, the MOE's Direction dec
2/92  4  16         SE,GE,A,            2                 2           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Affaires Adminitradnes el Fi,sancilres (DAAF) has failed to
2/92           4              16            SE,GE,A,            2                 2             institute the required procedures.
6/92           2              3             SE,OA,              2                 2             7/92. Serious budget/management problens have hampered
11/92          3              9             SE,A,              2                  2             project implementation.
2/93           4              10            SE,A,OA,            2                 2             11/92. Ministry of Finance's failure to respect invesunent
budget provisions has delayed construction. Failure to respect
5193           4              12            SE,E,OA,            2                 2             operating budget provisions means that 1992 conditionlities
10/93           I             11            SE,                                   I             relating to expenditure levels are unlikely to be met. Overall
Governrent monitoring continues to be disappointing.
2/93. Sector financing remains inconsimtent and is characterized
by delays of approximately 6 months. Tl  Comsi de suiW has
not met since February 1992. Government ha not yet prepared
a conmprehensive in-service traiing progrm for recently
redeployed teachera, nor has it reorganized its pre-service
training program.
5/93. Government has been slow to prepae a comprehensive
in-service tnining program for recently redeployed teachers.
______________________                                                                         10/93. h-ser~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wvi ce training programs are lagging.
COMPLETION                       11/94          I              14            GE,                 I                 I
SPECIALIZATIONS: A   ARCHITECT, E= ECONOMIST, ED= EDUCATOR, OA=OPERATIONS ANALYST, SE= EDUCATION SPECIALIST, EP= EDUCATIONAL                                      PLANNER, GE=GENERAL EDUC
PERFORMANCE RATINGS:I=PROBLEM FREE OR MINOR PROBLEMS, 2=MODERATE PROBLEMS, 3=MAJOR PROBLEMS   WITH SOLUTION UNDERWAY, 4 =MAJOR PROBLEMS WITHOUT SOLU
UNDERWAY (NONE IN THIS PROGRAM).



23
Appendix A
Page 1 of 9
APPENDIXES
Aide-memoire
Mission de la Banque Mondiale en Guin6e
13-28 Novembre 1994
Programme d'
Ajustement Sectoriel de l'Education (le PASE)
A: D6buts
1. Dans le cadre du rapport de fin de projet du PASE, une mission
de la banque mondiale a effectue une visite en Guin6e entre le 13
et le 28 novembre 1994. La mission etait men6e par Naim Atiyeh,
consultant pedagogue, sp6cialiste des sciences de 1'education et de
la psychop6dagogie.
2. La mission avait pour objectifs:
a) la mise a jour des donn6es qualitatives et quantitatives
touchant au fonctionnement du projet PASE, et ayant rapport a
l'evaluation du projet du point de vue de l'IDA.
b) des rencontres et des entretiens avec les directions du
projet et de leurs collaborateurs pour une appreciation d'ensemble
des succes et faiblesses du PASE,
c) la visite aux ecoles multigrades dans les regions rurales,
d) la coordination avec la famille du PASE pour assurer la
pr6paration de la Section II du rapport final qu'il leur revient a
r6diger du point de vue de la Guinee,
e) une saisie de l'etat de l'environnement administratif et
financier qui entoure le plan d'operation a l'appui de la p6rennit6
du PASE.
B: Deroulement de la mission:
a) La mission en Guinee a debute en compagnie de Mr. Ch6rif
Diallou par une visite de courtoisie a son excellence le Ministre
de   l'Enseignement   Pre-universitaire   et   de   la   Formation
Professionnelle, Madame Aicha Bah, qui a tout gracieusement
explique la conception qu'elle se fait de la reforme au niveau du
PASE, et de la satisfaction qu'elle lui accorde, ne manquant pas
toutefois de signaler les difficult6s auxquelles le projet ne cesse
de se heurter. Les principes directeurs, a son dire, sont la
volonte ferme de l'Etat, la determination des directions en charge
du PASE et de leurs collaborateurs, et la motivation generale dans
la plus grande majorite du pays.



24                    Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
b) Grace a la bienveillance du Coordinateur National du PASE,
Mr. Saidou Souare, un plan de travail fut vite esquisse, donnant
l'impulsion a l'ex6cution des taches imparties a. la mission, malgre
certaines difficultes au demarrage qui meritent d'etre bientot
signalees.
c) Les contacts furent entrepris au niveau de toutes les
structures du PASE, soit a titre individuel, soit dans le cadre des
s6ances de travail organisees avec le Secr6taire General, les
membres du Secretariat Technique et de ses consultants, le SSP, la
SCTP, les Directions nationales de l'enseignement, le comit6 de
r6daction du rapport ICR, l'IPN, la cellule budg6taire de la DAAF
et la Direction Prefectorale a Dubreka, sans omettre la part due
aux directeurs et enseignants des classes multigrades dans cette
r6gion et aux eleves a leur charge.
d) La mission remercie vivement la famille du PASE pour
l'appui qui lui fut accord6 durant son sejour, et exprime ses
souhaits sinceres pour une Guinee a la hauteur des aspirations que
le PASE represente.
e) Au personnel de la mission residente de la Banque Mondiale
a Conakry, un grand merci pour la bonte et la gentillesse de leur
accueil, et surtout pour l'efficacite de leurs services malgre
l'intensite des missions en Guinee a present.
C: Taches:
.a) Mise a jour des donn6es:
- Le controle des donnees que la mission recherchait devait en
premier lieu s'effectuer au niveau de la DAAF, comme point de
d6part sur la piste a poursuivre par la suite. Mais due a une
coincidence malencontreuse, le Directeur qui avait accompagne le
PASE des ses premieres demarches,  le feu Amadou Sadio Diallo,
venait de mourir, et le Directeur par interim, Mr. Sow devait
accomplir une mission a l'etranger pour toute la duree de la
presente mission.
- Grace aux bons soins du Coordinateur National, un programme
alternatif fut vite mis en place, permettant a demarrer au niveau
du SSP et de la SCTP.
- Une premiere seance a group6 le consultant de la Banque, le
Directeur du SSP, Mr. Bakary Diawara, et tous les Chefs de Section:
carte scolaire, Statistiques et Informatiques, Promotion de
l'Enseignement Prive, et Statistiques et Planification. Le dialogue
a permis de clarifier la nature des donnees recherchees et de leur
utilite pour l'analyse contemplee, et d'orienter le consultant aux
ressources disponibles pour cet exercice.



25                   Appendix A
Page 3 of 9
- Encore a travers le dialogue, entame soit individuellement
soit en seance avec les 6quipes de travail, il s'av6rait possible,
malgre une certaine r6ticence qui marquait les premiers abords,
d'examiner en profondeur le style de travail, et d'apprecier plus
ou moins objectivement les caract6ristiques distinctives des
differentes 6quipes impliquees dans le PASE. Et clest bien l'une
des donnees qui va permettre d'appr6cier a juste titre l'6tat de
l'environnement dans lequel l'apres PASE se prepare.
- Quant aux documents recherches, il est a noter que le manque
d'equipement et la penurie des facilit6s mat6rielles n'ont pas
empech6  les  fonctionnaires   de  contourner  les  difficult6s
rencontrees, et ceci Grace a une volonte de servir et de se plier
aux exigences du travail. Des donnees presumees fiables ont et6
fournies dans le cadre du systeme en cours.
- L'apport du conseiller technique du PASE, Mr. Joseph
Brandolin, qui a mis a la disposition de la mission tout l'arsenal
de la documentation qu'il possede et la somme de ses r6flexions sur
le PASE, a fourni un eclairage tres apprecie, et a precise un
nombre de problemes qui meritent d'etre adress6s avec soin. D'autre
part, Mr. Tolivert, conseiller technique repr6sentant le USAID, a
son tour, a clarifi6 certains autres aspects concernant les
dispositions relatives aux manuels scolaires.
- Au niveau de la SCTP, plusieurs r6unions avec le Directeur,
Mr. Abou Soumah et son equipe ont permis de reconstituer la
situation du secteur de la construction et de l'6quipement dans le
cadre du PASE, ce qui fait bien ressortir l'importance de la
restructuration envisagee dans le cadre de la p6rennit6 du PASE.
- A leur tour, les analyses preparees par la DAAF des ann6es
1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, avec les projections pour les ann6es
95 et 96, permettent d'extraire un certain nombre d'indicateurs
utiles aux analyses du rapport de fin de projet. Durant l'absence
du Directeur par interim, Mr. Ahmadou Sow, le controle d6sir6 fut
repris avec l'assistance de Mr.Ibrahima Youri Diallo, et Mr. Babaen
Barry, Chef de la Cellule de Gestion des Fonds de Contrepartie. A
plusieurs reprises, il etait n6cessaire de reviser les informations
donnees en vue d'un meilleur contr8le, a la lumiere de la loi des
Finances, et afin d'elucider les inconsistances apparentes entre
les  documents  en  circulation.    La plupart  des  ecarts  not6s
semblaient etre dus a des decalages entre les p6riodes des revues
envisag6es.
.- Les seances avec le Directeur de l'Enseignement Secondaire,
Mr Clotaire Maomy, le Directeur de 1' IPN, Mr. Al-Hadj Alpha
Boubacar Barry et ses Chefs de Section, et Mme Passy Kourouma,
Coordinatrice   du   comit6   de  l16quit6,   ont   apport6   des
eclaircissements tres importants pour une evaluation plus
compr6hensive du systeme 6ducatif en Guin6e.



26                     Appendix A
Page 4 of 9
- b): Rapport Final relevant de la Guin6e
Dans ce cadre,  Mr.  Souare,  avec la promptitude qu'on  lui
reconnait a aussitot pris les dispositions n6cessaires pour la
selection   d'un   comit6   de   redaction,   compos6   de   quatre
collaborateurs choisis parmi les chefs des directions et sections
du MEPU-FP.
.- L'exercice a debute par une seance de travail sous la presidence
du Secr6taire Gen6ral, Mr. Ali Badara Doukoure, la pr6sence de Mr.
Souar6, et de celle des membres du comite, dont les personnes
suivantes:
- Mr. Alaman Cond6, Inspecteur General Adjoint de
l'Education,
- Mr. Bakary Diawara, Directeur de la Section SSP,
- Mr. Ousman Paraya Balde, Chef Service Information et
Documentation,(SINDA),
- Mr. Ibrahima Youri Diallo, Responsable du Centre
Informatique.
Sur la suggestion de Mr. Doukoure, plusieurs s6ances de travail,
rassemblant les membres du comit6 de redaction, se sont bien
adress6es a la structure et au contenu de l'exercice en question,
afin de mettre en place par la suite un plan expeditif pour son
ex6cution. Ce qui a ete vite fait.
.- Dans une premiere seance, le consultant a explique les objectifs
du ICR, comme envisages par la Banque, il a mis a la disposition
des membres un plan de r6daction touchant a toutes les composantes
du projet, en conformite avec les directives de la Banque.
Plusieurs copies du rapport Guineen du Second Projet (cr6dit-1341)
leur ont ete egalement remis, non seulement pour servir comme
modele, mais aussi pour leur permettre de faire la liaison entre
les acquis des projets precedents et du projet actuel de
normalisation, le PASE.
. - A la lumiere du document exp6die par la Banque Mondiale
evoquant les differentes composantes du rapport, et fournissant des
pr6cisions sur le contenu de chacune, les membres pr6sents se sont
vite partage l'exercice, selon leurs domaines d'expertise et
d'experience respectifs. Au besoin, le concours d'autres r6dacteurs
dont l'apport pourrait enrichir ou rendre plus objectifs certains
aspects du contenu est a souhaiter.
.- Une avant-derniere seance de travail, pr6vue pour le 26
Novembre,  1994,  devait rassembler les directeurs nationaux et
d'autres collaborateurs, pour un debat autour des propos a etre
present6s par le comite de redaction, et surtout pour un examen
collectif approfondi des lecons a tirer de l'exp6rience si riche du
PASE. Pour des raisons de disponibilite, cette r6union fut annulee.
.- Le 28 Novembre, une reunion finale du comit6 de r6daction a



27
Appendix A
Page 5 of 9
permis de faire une mise a point pour l' int6gration des differentes
parties du rapport.
.- Pour plus de coh6rence, le rapport fera l'objet d'une nouvelle
refonte, qui constituera la premiere version a soumettre aux
sup6rieurs.   Un dernier remaniement sera tente en fonction de
l'envergure des changements ou des mises'aN point exig6s.
.- Quoiqu'il aurait prefere etre notifie suffisamment a l'avance,
Mr. Souar6, sachant l'importance des echanges qui doivent avoir
lieu entre la Banque et le Gouvernement avant de finaliser le
rapport, tient a rassurer qu'il tachera de son mieux de terminer le
travail conformement aux delais accord6s. Une premiere version sera
bient8t remise a la Banque, dans les meilleurs d6lais. I1 est a
noter que l'absence de Mr. Ahmadou Sow s'est faite bien sentir au
niveau de la collecte des donnees, a tous les niveaux.
.- Vu l'enthousiasme avec lequel on aborde le sujet, le consultant
est rassur6 que le rapport sera remis a temps.
c). Les Classes Multigrades:
- La visite des classes multigrades etait un point focal dans
le cadre de cette mission. Par les soins du Coordinateur du Comite
de Pilotage, et le Directeur National de l'Enseignement Primaire,
Mr. Amadou Sadio Diallo, une visite a la region de Dubreka a ete
execut6e en compagnie d'un repr6sentant de l'enseignement primaire,
Mr. Patrice Kourouma. La mission fut pilotee dans une des voitures
4x4 du PASE. Malgre le grand retard du au blocage des routes a la
sortie de la capitale, et d'une panne dont on a ete victime au
retour, la visite a 6te menee a bonne fin.
.- A Dubreka, la mission fut recue par Mr. Talibi Cisse,
Inspecteur de l'Enseignement 6l6mentaire, et Directeur DPE. A la
suite d'un apercu general qu'il a donne de l'etat de l'enseignement
dans son directorat, Mr. Talibi a accompagn6 la mission dans deux
6coles a une distance de 30 ou 35 kilometres l'une de l'autre, ou
des classes multigrades 6taient en session.
.C1 - La classe de khorira
.- La premiere visite de classe fut a l'6cole 6lementaire de
Khorira. La classe etait en s6ance. Des notre arriv6e, les enfants
se sont leves pour nous saluer en chorale, et, de nouveau, a la
demande de l'instituteur, ils ont repris le travail.
.- Dans cette salle de classe, il y avait deux groupes
pedagogiques, les eleves de premiere annee au nombre de 38, et les
eleves de troisieme ann6e au nombre de six, garcons et filles.



28                   Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
Les enfants se distinguaient par leur bonne tenue, leurs
bonnes manieres, et leur courage devant les 6trangers. A juger de
leur taille, on pouvait trouver des enfants de tous les ages, entre
7 et 13 ou 14 ans, bien entendu.
.- Une fois la mission a pris place, l'instituteur s'est remis
a son plan de travail qui etait bien note au tableau noir. Les
methodes appliqu6es relevaient du principe de l'enseignement actif.
Sans s'attarder aux d6tails, la performance de l'instituteur
refletait  bien  sa  maitrise  de  l'esprit  de  la  pedagogie
progressiste. Ce qui manquait, peut-etre, c'etait le mat6riel
didactique. A d6faut, le tableau noir se faisait roi, avec l'appui
de petits panneaux en ardoise .
C2. La classe de Kanqolea:
A  Kangol6a,  la  classe  avait  egalement  deux  groupes
p6dagogiques, la premiere ann6e avec 23 eleves, (11 filles et 12
garcons), et la cinquieme annee avec 8 eleves, dont 2 filles et 6
garcons. Le plan de travail etait bien specifie au tableau, avec
les details du contenu en lecture ou en arithm6tique, et des
dessins. La aussi, l'instituteur a bien suivi l'esprit des m6thodes
d'activit6s, ayant recours a la methode de "role playing", et de la
simulation. Les enfants eux-memes prenaient la parole pour
reformuler la question et la poser a leurs camarades, par imitation
& un enseignant. Outre les avantages linguistiques qui pourraient
en decouler, c'est bien la un apprentissage qui intervient assez
t6t pour la formation a l'enseignement.
Avant de passer au groupe pedagogique de 5ieme annee,
l'instituteur eut soin de donner du travail au groupe des petits,
comme prevu dans son plan. Pourtant, l'esprit d'improvisation n'en
manquait pas.
.- Avant la rentr6e, l'entretien avec le Directeur, Mr. Talibi
Cisse, donnait beaucoup d'espoir au sujet de l'avenir de la methode
des classes multigrades. Reste a savoir si cette m6thode etait la
r6ponse aux problemes multiples poses par la question de la
scolarisation au niveau des regions rurales, ou si c'etait juste
une methode d'enseignement qui meritait d'etre promue et developp6e
a son propre compte en raison de ce qu'elle a comme valeur
p6dagogique.
D: Environnement et P6rennit6
Pendant le d6roulement d'une mission si courte pour un projet si
vaste, il est assez difficile de faire la part de chacun des
vecteurs multiples qui rentrent en jeu. Une saisie intuitive de la
situation  risquerait  d'etre  partiale,  vu  la  contagion  de
l'enthousiasme qui vous prend a l'improviste une fois en rapport



29
Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
avec les meneurs de la croisade du PASE. Et ceci n'engage que la
personne du consultant.
Cependant, grace aux analyses et aux reflexions partagees avec les
repr6sentants des instances dirigeantes et des organismes sur le
terrain, il semble assez aise de tracer la ligne entre le reve et
la realite . Le PASE n'est pas un projet, c'est un pays a l'6veil,
mais oa les aspirations risquent d'offusquer le vecu. Et c'est dans
ce sens que l'on peut sinon deja faire le point, au moins peut-on
soulever certains problemes intervenant dans le quotidien du
Ministere, comme l'appareil d'execution de la reforme. Les
questions a ce sujet, d'ordre un peu general, se posent aux niveaux
de l'appui supplementaire qu'il faut apporter au secteur de
l'education, en vue de la rehabilitation manageriale de l'organe
administratif et du plan, et de l1'laboration d'une philosophie de
l'education dans  le pays. L'6ducation pour tous,  mais quelle
education?
- Au niveau de l'appareillage d' execution, il faudrait avant tout
projet de grande envergure reconnaitre que toutes les Directions
sont relativement demunies de moyens efficaces. Un r6seau exp6ditif
et a bon marche pour la communication est un cas d'urgence.
- Malgr6 lexpertise technique et professionnelle dont la plupart
des Chefs de Section et de leur encadrement ont fait preuve, il est
6galement urgent de continuer a renforcer leur formation et a leur
offrir l'appui d'un encadrement a la mesure des t'aches imparties.
- La restructuration qui est en cours se base sur des principes qui
donnent l'espoir d'un assainissement ou d'une rationalisation
encore plus pousses. Entre autres, cependant, elle doit envisager
une coordination plus lucide dans la melee des bailleurs de fonds
et des consultants. Les divergences dans le style d'action et des
perspectives theoriques pourraient engendrer des 6cueils.
- La mise en oeuvre de l'evaluation nationale de l'6ducation est
une demarche de grande importance. C'est une activit6 qui merite
d'etre poursuivie pour les diagnostics comparatifs, mais en tenant
compte de la necessite de monter dans le proche avenir un
dispositif structure pour l'evaluation des accomplissements
scolaires. Ce sont la deux activit6s qui se completent , mais dont
chacune a son domaine propre et son outillage. Sans un effort
serieux pour les harmoniser, un dedoublement inutile pourrait se
creer.
- Les manuels scolaires et les materiaux pedagogiques posent encore
un probleme qui est loin d'etre resolu, que ce soit au niveau de
leur composition ou de leur acquisition par les eleves,
La mission attend toujours le bilan des manuels produits et
distribues dans le cadre du PASE.
- Le developpement d'un milieu plus favorable a l'apprentissage



30
Appendix A
Page 8 of 9
surtout dans les regions rurales, ou les parents ne connaissent pas
la langue francaise a besoin d'etre mis en place, au moins sous la
forme  d'un  programme  de  soutien  qu'on  leur  offre  dans  la
preparation de leurs lecons. La oa la valorisation de l16ducation
n'est pas un souci immediat, il faut bien un soutien tout
particulier aux enfants scolaris6s.
- la necessit6 de la mise en place d'un programme pour la
modernisation du systeme d'6valuation des accomplissements
scolaires. Des echelles adapt6es a la culture de la Guin6e pour la
mesure du developpement mental, academique ou de la personnalit6
sont n6cessaires. Elles permettront non seulement d'aboutir a une
meilleure rationalisation de l'evaluation objective des succes et
faiblesses du systeme 6ducatif, mais aussi et surtout d'aider les
conseillers scolaires a faire un diagnostic valable pour organiser
l'enseignement de perfectionnement dont les 6chou6s ou les non-
doues ont besoin.
- Les inadapt6s scolaires constituent un segment jusque-la meconnu.
Malgr6 les difficultes economiques, il lui faut une place, quoique
minime, dans toute planification.
- Les progres accomplis au niveau de la qualit6 de l'enseignement
primaire vont certainement dans la direction d'augmenter la demande
pour l'enseignement secondaire sans qu'il y ait eu des mesures pour
repondre a cette heureuse eventualit6. Dans cette optique, le PASE
II devrait reserver une part plus large au profit de l'enseignement
secondaire. Deja la Direction de l'enseignement Secondaire accuse
un besoin pour le recrutement de 400 professeurs contractuels, qui
sont pris en compte dans l'avant-projet du budget pour l'ann6e
scolaire, sous la rubrique: autres depenses.
- Malgre son besoin d'etre encore techniquement renforc6,
l'environnement social au niveau des ressources humaines inspire
beaucoup de confiance. Cependant, la survie du PASE fait face au
danger de la d6gradation de l'environnement physique et mat6riel,
vu l'accroissement de la demande projetee a l'avenir tres proche
qui risque de d6border les capacites du systeme educatif avec ses
ressources actuelles et d'aboutir a une explosion scolaire tres
forte. L'apport d'un systeme d'appui sous la forme d'un
enseignement priv6 valoris6 et maintenu sans 6litisme est a
souhaiter.
. - Au niveau du taux des natalites, la famille planifi6e est une
option a 6tudier. Dans beaucoup de pays, elle a d6ja fait ses
preuves.
- La restructuration proposee a l'avenement du PASE II fera l'objet
d'un examen plus approfondi dans le cadre du rapport final. I1 faut
cependant noter dans l'immediat que l'organisation de l'inspection
de l1education et la d6finition de ses fonctions et comp6tences, en



31                  Appendix A
Page 9 of 9
rapport avec les directions nationales, meritent une attention
toute particuliere. L'inspection n'est pas simplement un service
d'appui, c'est un poste d'avant-garde dans le cadre de la r6forme.
Au meme titre , il faudrait peut etre faire une distinction plus
claire entre l'inspection d'ordre administratif et celle d'ordre
professionnel et pedagogique.
- Et pour conclure, la mission note que les realisations accomplies
dans le cadre du PASE promettent de cr6er un environnement
favorable a la p6rennit6 du projet, surtout au niveau de la volonte
et de l'engagement politiques. D'un cot6, une nouvelle declaration
de la politique de l'enseignement est en gestation pour marquer les
nouveaux objectifs a atteindre. Le Gouvernement, en effet, redouble
ses efforts pour entamer la seconde phase du PASE. Le
ralentissement   apparent   dans   les   ressources   allouees   au
fonctionnement du secteur ne semble presenter aucun risque
compromettant, puisque les projections sont destin6es aux travaux
de maintien et non au compte d'achats.
- Sans omettre la part due au secteur de la formation
professionnelle et de l'enseignement technique, le consultant
voudrait terminer, en n'engageant que lui-meme, sur le theme du
charisme conjugu6 avec le d6veloppement institutionnel. Il me
semble bien, en effet, que le succes accompli dans le cadre du PASE
est dans une bonne mesure le reflet d'une direction 6clairee et
inspir6e, mais qu'il faudrait profiter de cette conjoncture pour
recourir a un d6veloppement plus enracin6 au niveau des
institutions. C'est a elles que revient le pouvoir d'assurer la
survie du PASE, et de lui conserver l'6lan vital qui lui est
imparti. Facile a dire, beaucoup moins a realiser. Mais le PASE est
un bon travail commence, et qui merite d'etre complet6.
.- La mission remercie le Ministre du MEPU-FP, son excellence Mme
Aicha Bah, pour avoir accorde a la mission une derniere seance de
revision tenue avant le d6part du consultant ou certains problemes
souleves par les diff6rentes instances durant la mission ont et6
clarifi6s et expliques; a Mr. Doukour6, le Secr6taire G6neral pour
la vision d'ensemble qu'il a tenue a partager avec le consultant
avant  son d6part,  et a Mr.  Souare   pour l'appui qu'il  a si
g6n6reusement apport6 tout au long.
Conakry, le 28 Novembre,1994
Naim Atiyeh
Consultant



32
Appendix B
Page 1 of 3
Education Sector Adjustment Credit (PASE)
Implementation Completion Report
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Translation and Summary of the Borrower's Evaluation
February, 1995-Conakry
1.    The Guinean Government adopted a Statement of Education Sector Policy in 1989 to provide
the overall framework for changes in the sector. This statement was in line with the decision taken in
1984 to restructure the education system, to improve teaching and training and to strengthen
management and administrative capacities within the education sector. As a direct result of this
global vision for educational improvement, the Education Sector Adjustment Program was put in
place in 1990. This program started with three donors (the World Bank, which took the lead role,
USAID, and the FAC). Over the four years of implementation of this program, it expanded to
include support from approximately 20 donors.
2.    Operationally, the program was conceived of as consisting of four principal components: (i)
strengthening management and administrative capacity, including development of a more responsive
organizational structure, preparing a functional audit of the Ministry, and developing management
software; (ii) rationalizing the use of personnel through redeployment of teachers and administrators
to primary school classrooms, establishing new teacher guidelines, and expanding the in-service
program to include training for multigrade classes; (iii) improving the quality of classroom-level
infrastructure and materials, including a large construction and rehabilitation program; and (iv)
revising programs and curricula, including production of new textbooks and preparing a broad-based
evaluation of the school system. Implementation of these activities was successfully completed, albeit
somewhat behind schedule because of administrative red tape, budget shortfalls, etc.  The
administrative barriers included such things as delays in donor funding, a lack of coherency in the
timing of donor financing and the local budget cycle, and the complexities of the financial operations
and procedures within the Ministry of Finance.
3.    One particular area that suffered from the delays in donor financing, especially in 1992, was
the construction program. The weakness of the regional construction offices (SCTP antennae) also
contributed to putting the construction program behind schedule. Ultimately, the unavailability of
Government financing for this component was made up by counterpart USAID funds (PL480), PGI-
Lome III and IV funds, the European Development Fund, and the French SASS. Delays in this
component were largely responsible for the project closing a year behind schedule (in June 30, 1994),
although in fact, delays in satisfying other conditionalities were also a factor in the delayed tranche
releases.
4.    Under the project, the priority was given to rural schooling. A total of 156 classrooms were
built and 200 renovated as pilot initiatives to test low-cost procedures. In addition, more than 20,000
desks and storage closets were built and distributed. Other donors built 677 classrooms under the
broad PASE program and significant efforts were made to improve the level of support given by
central and decentralized education offices in support of these and other school improvement
initiatives.



33
Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
Project Costs
5.    USAID contributed US$ 22.3 million, of which 80 percent was to be used for debt service
and 20 percent for the country's investment budget. USAID also contributed an additional amount of
US$ 5.7 million to finance technical assistance, scholarships and equipment. IDA granted a credit of
US$20 million. F.A.C. contributed 71 million FF for technical assistance, training and equipment.
100 percent of donors' contributions were used.
Results
6.    The principal results of the project were the following:
(a)   The DAAF was restructured and strengthened, especially in computerization and the
action plan costing and the national budget for education increased from 14 percent in
1990 to 25.2 percent in 1993, of which 35 percent is dedicated to the primary level;
(b)   The human resource management plan began to be implemented in 1991 and resulted
in the publication of work regulations for teachers and the redeployment of 1806
teachers from the secondary level to primary classrooms. 8000 teachers participated
in in-service training;  and  46 professors for teacher training colleges and 111
pedagogical counselors/teacher trainers were trained;
(c)    1500 classrooms were built with the use of international resources and 1500 were built
with purely local resources, for a total of 3000 new classrooms. Also, a renovation
program for schools and administration buildings throughout the country was
implemented, under the supervision of regional units of the school construction
service;
(d)   Schools were supplied with equipment, textbooks and pedagogical materials, which is
improving teaching and learning conditions in classrooms and encouraging local
spending on education;
(e)   National schooling goals have been redefined; and
(f)    The institutional development component produced personnel norms, which have been
adopted by the Government; a computerized personnel management system, some
decentralization; and increased organization of planning activities.
7.    These results have had a strong impact on poverty reduction through employment creation,
introduction of new agricultural and production techniques at school and increasing girls' schooling.
On a more general level, political interest in schooling has increased, with consequential increases in
the percentage of the national budget allocated to education, and improvements in resource allocation
between education sub-sectors.






35
Appendix C
Page 1 of 1
TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONALITIES
DESCRIPTION
Second Tranche. The Borrower has taken the following actions:
* Actual expenditures under the 1990 education budget have been of at least FG 2,800 for teaching
materials for each primary pupil, and FG 210,000 for operating expenditures for each
administrative staff, and the proportion of the 1991 education recurrent budget allocated to
primary education is at least 34% and to materials and operating expenditures is at least 17%;
* Allocations in the 1991 education budget have been made at a level sufficient to match locally
generated primary classroom construction funds, consistent with the objective of increased
enrollments;
* The implementation calendar for primary school construction in 1992 has been updated;
* A sector-wide program has been prepared in respect of staff redeployment, recruitment and
training, and a personnel management strategy has been prepared to increase from 13% to 20% in
1992 the proportion of rural primary classes operating with multigrade teaching; and
* Entrance requirements for primary teacher trainees have been revised to allow training of holders
of lower secondary certificates.
Third Tranche. The Borrower has taken the following actions:
* Actual expenditures under the 1991 education budget have been at least FG 2,800 for teaching
materials for each primary pupil, and FG 210,000 for operating expenditures for each
administrative staff, actual expenditures under the 1991 education recurrent budget have been of at
least 34% for primary education, and 17% for materials and operating expenditures, and recurrent
budget allocations for 1992 have been increased to 35% for primary education, and 18% for
materials and operating expenditures;
* Allocations in the 1992 education budget have been made at a level sufficient to match locally
generated primary classroom construction funds, consistent with the objective of increased
enrollments;
* The implementation calendar for primary school construction in 1993 has been updated;
* A sector-wide program of staff redeployment, recruitment and training, and a personnel
management strategy to increase from 20% to 27% in 1993 the proportion of rural primary classes
operating with multigrade teaching has been prepared; and
* A plan to continue the operations of the education sector management committee beyond the
period of the Program has been prepared with a view to consolidating the sector organizational
and managerial improvements.






1 4- -                                                                                                           
--  --  --  --------,                                           >                                                                            1                     UI      E
TO KedQoqsg                               EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
To X,me               Kudr 
GUI[NEA-    .D-                                                                                                    ~0gossolo
B I SSA U                              t0                           MI                              2                                  ~TBmk
-12                                                                                                         *.(-oBmk
(                                                                                                   2.5                                   12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-   GaouolE                                                                                               DV&0 
*Koubia
Tougu6      '                                                       s
*  L6IoumO  Lab~~~~~~~~~             / ~     Dir,guiraye                                          gull               -
Lab6                 ~~~~Kolnko    0_
Sassgoredi    \        ' -                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.ar,cakoro
Komtoe                                                                                                                                        Mondrana~~~~~~~~~~it             M     A             
*Boff
KamsorDbre                                             K1 IER             A       EO     Ed\,anHoy
Conakry ~      QTodo               Im
~~ I  I    1-                                    I                                                        "   KaPA ED  OADn.5            I
4060 8   1012 
RAVEDRS AD
ALINTERATIOEA  ARPO RTS
0   210   410  610   8   IT    120  Benty  ~     ~         AROUTSPORTIERATICBEPATONA      S TEMSKBelae
t                MARIANIAAELROAS                                                                                      ,N Geckdou                     MOoOI
INATIONALTAITNAL AIPR
  AERODROMFSGucca                                                               cnt
YEEA>                                                            CAPITALE
THE                                 M AL I
GAMBIAA~~~~~~~-'--  ( ~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS
CAPITALES DES mINISTERES RESIDENTS 
-                                            6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PREFECTURE CAPITALS                  __
GUINEA-  5,"                                          8PREFECTURES                                                                                                                                           C    T  
BISSAU.6          I             R~~~~~~'URIA                      IIMITES DFS PRFFECTURES                                                               /
Conakry*                                              ~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE REGION ROUNDARIETS                                      N:'    rko6             ola
'1                   I~~~~~IMITES DE-MNSTRE*ESDET
n-s  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               ~             ~            ~             ~           ~           ~          ~         'IVI R
SIERRAIEONEY-    `'~   cbTE                                                    DSFRN MIONAITEREDARRESIDNSIDI O R
rRONTIERES INTFRNATIONALES
D'IVOIRE      0                                                                                                           omu
1            >   ~~~~~The b-unda-ie  colors denomin,ations an,d anty other-iformation           BER,        
z  r           liBERIA  ~~~~~~~~~-,             ls~~~oinn on, th,5 nrVsp do otf imply or the port of The World Book Group                                                          T   Ndw
o rtY u.dgme-i on the legal slotus of c,  te-ory or any enVdorscnten,t                                        x                        TAbcls
or acceptan~ce of tuch boundaries                                                  08N
___________________                                                                                                                                                I                                 ce'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 









IMAGING
Report No:          14617
Type: ICR



