Document of
The World Bank
FGJ OaFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-5288-GUI
RiEPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 15.4 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAY 11, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
teir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUnvALENTS
Currency Unit    .    Guinean Franc (FG)
Annual Average Guinean Francs per US Dollar
1986 FG345;  1987 FG429; 1988 FG475; 1989 FG592
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APE   Association des Parents d'Elbves
Parents' Associations
CFP   Centre de Formation Professionnelle
VocationaliTechnical School
DAAF Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financiares
Directorate of Financial and Administrative Affairs
DSPE Direction des Statistiques et de la Planification de l'Education
Directorate of Education Statistics and Planning
ENI   Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
Primary Teacher Training College
ESAF Facilite d'ajustement structurel renforce
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IPN   Institut P4dagogique National
National Pedagogic Institute
MEF   Ministare de l'Economie et des Finances
;Ministry of Economy and Finances
MEN   Ministbre de l'Education Nationale
Ministry of National Education
MID   Ministare de l'Int6rieur et de la Decentralisation
Ministry of Interior and Decentralization
MPCI Ministhre du Plan et de la Coop6ration Internationale
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MRAFP Ministare de la Reforme Administrative et de la Fonction
Publique/Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service
ONFPP Office Nationale de la Formation et de la Perfectionnement
Professionelle/National Vocational Training Agency
PAS   Programme d'ajustement structurelle
Structural Adjustment Program
PASE Programme d'ajustement du secteur de l'education
Education sector adjustment program
SSA   Afrique subsaharienne
Sub-saharan Africa
SEEPU Secretariat d'Etat & l'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire
Secretariat of State for Pre-university Education
FISCAL YEAR: January 1-December 31
SCHOOL YEAR: September-June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagqe
CREDIT  SUMMARY#.*  .....     ......... o......................................... iv
PART I. THE ECONOMY  . .................. ...... ....................... 1
A. Background ...........................................1.........l
B. Recent Developments and the Adjustment Program ...      . .............. 2
C. Human Resources and Adjustment  ............................. 4
PART II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .............................. 5
A. The Current Educational System                .. .  5
B. Past Policies .................................................. 6
C. IDA's Lending Strategy in the Sector             . . .    7
D. Current Major Constraints .................................... . .    8
a. Inefficient Management of Resources ...................  8
b. Resource Constraints                   .. .    9
c. Structural Deficiencies .................................. . . 11
d. Human Resource Constraints          .      . ......  12
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ................... 13
A. Educational Development without Adjustment  . .. ........... 13
B. The Government's Sector Adjustment Program          . ..  13
C. Specific Measures under the Sector Adjustment Program   . . 14
D. Costs and Impact of the Proposed Program           .. 20
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ........................................... 23
A. Rationale, Objectives and Description  . .................... 23
B. The Sectoral Adjustment Program and its Review ................ 24
C. Linkage to Overall Macroeconomic Adjustment ................... 26
D. Costs, Financing and the Allocation of Credit Proceeds ........ 27
E. Implementation .............................................. 27
a. Preparation Status ... . .   27
b. Monitoring and Evaluation                ....  28
c. Management .     ................................................ 28
d. Procurewent      ................................................ 29
e. Disbursement and Special Account ........                   .................... 29
f. Accounting, Auditing. and Reporting           . . .   29
F. Benefits, Risks and Risk Management            ..... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



iii
PART V. BANK OPERATIONS & COLLABORATION WITH IMF & OTHER DONORS ........ 31
A. Aid Flows and Bank Operations ............................. . 31
B. Relationship with IMF ...........................                      31
PART Vl  RECOMMENDATIONS  ... . ........................       ......... * ...32
ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Basic Data...................................................
Annex 2.  Key Macroeconomic Indicators................................
Annex 3.  Status of Bank Group Operations..............................
Annex 4.  A Statistical Profile of the Education System................
(i)   Overview .......................................
(ii)   The Primary Sub-sector.........................
(iii)   Teacher Qualification and Training.............
(iv)   The Financing of the Sector....................
Annex 5.  Government's Letter of Education Polic ......................
Annex 6.  The Adjustment Program           ..........................
Part 1: Supplementary Credit Data Sheet......................
Part 2: Action Plan with Review Criteria for
Tranche Release..................... . .. ...........
Annex 7.  The Cost and Financial Impact of the Sectoral
Adjustment Program..........................................
Map



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Education and Secretariat of State for Pre-
university Education
Credit
Amounts           IDS Credit of SDR 15.4 million (US$20 million equivalent),
to be disbursed in three equal tranches.
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Program
descriptions      The credit would support implementation of a comprehensive
package of educational policy reforms, aimed at preventing a
major deterioration of the education system and creating a
basis for the sector to contribute to medium-term
socioeconomic development, to be achieved through: (a)
improving eector strategy formulation and managerial
capacity; (b) rationalizing public expenditure in the
sector: Ic) launching a primary school construction and
rehabilitation program; (d) increasing the relevance of
education to employment prospects, and the economic needs of
the country, and (e) addressing gender issues with programs
of special emphasis.
Specific reforms targeted by the operation include measures
that address:
a.    national policy and strategic framework through: (i)
adoption and further development of a comprehensive
statement of national policy for the sector, and (ii)
creation of a mechanism to monitor the implementation
and evaluation of key policy changes in the sector;
b.    general sector management through: (i) creation of a
senior sector coordination committee, and (ii)
internal reorganization of MEN and SEEPU;
c.    more efficient and effective resource use and
generation through: (i) regular monitoring of sector
budget allocations and actual expenditures, (ii)
adoption of spending norms for critical non-salary
inputs at all levels of education, (iii) adoption of
new construction cost norms and building techniques,
(iv) creation of a matching fund mechanism to increase
locally generated resources for educational
investment, (v) promotion of private education at all
levels, and (vi) allocation of an increased proportion
of the overall recurrent budget for the operation of
the sector;



v
d.    underdevelopment and poor relevance of the educational
system through: (i) promotion of a revised primary
school model, (ii) adoption of limits on the
repetition of grades, (iii) completion of the
rationalization of higher education, and (iv)
definition of and preparation for the rationalization
of vocational skill training and technical education;
e.    more efficient use and distribution of staff through: (i)
introduction of a computerized personnel management
system, (ii) application of new staffing norms, (iii)
creation of a consultative body charged with
coordinating teacher trainitg activities, and (iv)
introduction of comprehensive in-service staff
training programs.
Benefits
and risks:  The reforms supported by this operation should make a key
contribution to alleviating a major constraint to development in
Guinea through improved performance of the education and training
sector. The benefits are of three types: First, the operation
would both support and reinforce the overall macroeconomic
adjustment program and extend critical reforms (budgetary
improvements, cost-containment, more efficient and effective
resource use, civil service reform) into a key secto... The central
organs of Government responsible for public finance management
would be sensitized to the need for regular, adequate allocations
to education, and the budget process and expenditure controls
would be strengthened and fully implemented. Secondly, the
operation would ensure the protection of the education system
during a period of austerity and provide support for measures to
alleviate the burden of macroeconomic adjustment on some of the
most vulnerable groups, specifically children of school-age.
Thirdly, the operation would support educational reforms which
promote qualitative improvements in education, while laying the
foundation for a more efficient and effective educational system.
Following implementation of these reforms, the education system
will be better able to provide the trained technical and skilled
manpower needed by the private sector, and to keep pace w- h the
expanding demand for education due to population growth.
Risks and risk management: The risks are threefold. First, a lack
of Government comnitment to policy changes might lead to the
measures outlined in Part III of this report not being
implemented. To address this, the preparation of the operation
relied heavily on consensus building at both the national and the
sector levels. This resulted in the adoption by Government of a
satisfactory institutional framework for overseeing these policy
elements; key monitoring and management functions are reinforced
with the creation of the program monitoring committee ('Comitd de
Suivi du PASE") and the sector coordination committee. In



vi
addition, tranche release is linked to the joint annual review of
performance on the operation's key measures. Secondly. the sector
reform might exceed the administrative and managerial capacity of
the MEN. This is addressed as above, by consensus building and
strengthening of the institutional framework; key directorates are
reinforced and specialist support is available from the Technical
Secretariat. In addition, the operation contains a selective
choice of measures, to be implemented in a phased manner, and does
not encompass immediate implementation of all aspects of the
reform. Finally, poor macroeconomic performance would jeopardize
the ability of the Government to sustain the education reform. To
ensure that linkage of this operation to the macroeconomic
situation is monitored, the 'ComitO de Suivi du PASE' provides
quarterly reports to the Government's Economi. and Financial
Coordinating Committee (CCEF), and the annual joint review of
performance of the operation includes review of the recurrent and
investment budgets. In addition, tranche release for this
operation is linked to satisfactory progress on the structural
adjustment program (PAS).
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 22314



1
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Development
Credit for SDR 15.4 million (US$ 20 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of forty years, to the Republic of Guinea. The proposed operation
would be financed by IDA (US$20 million, 100l quick disbursing funds), the French
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) (US$9 million), and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) (US$15 million, 60? quick disbursing
funds). Execution of the program of activities related to the adjustment would
be supported by contributions from the Government of Guinea (US$9 million) and
local communities (US$4 million).
PART I. THE ECONOMY
A.    Background
2.   While Guinea's agricultural, mineral and energy resources make it one of
the better endowed countries in Africa, its per capita income of less than US$
380 (1988) places it among the least developed countries in the world. Social
indicators of life expectancy (43 years), infant mortality (160 per thetsand),
and illiteracy (72Z), reflect the poor living standards of most of its 6.1
million people after more than 25 years of steady economic decline. Basic data
and macroeconomic indicators are summarized in Annexes 1 and 2.
3.    From being a major exporter of agricultural products at independence in
1958, Guinea's economy changed drastically in the 1970s, into that of a virtual
monoexporter of bauxite and a net food importer. Economic activities shifted from
the rural to the urban sector, and economic management was increasingly carried
out by an oversized and inefficient public sector. This resulted in a serious
misallocation of resources, disincentives for exports, an inability to mobilize
domestic savings, and ultimately, a heavy national debt. Political instability
was the backdrop to such developments, and it prompted the departure of an
estimated 1.5 million people from the country, among them many of the best
qualified technicians and professionals. Even today, the effects of this loss
of skilled manpower are felt in the economy.
4.    By the early 1980s, the economy had become essentially dualistic, with
the parallel market satisfying a growing share of consumer demand for imported
goods and foodstuffs: revenues from the bauxitelalumina enclave could no longer
provide for the financing of subsidies to an inefficient parastatal sector, for
the timely service of external debt, nor even for the operation of the most basic
government services. By 1984, budget deficits and external payment arrears had
attained critical levels.



2
5.    While data on the labor force and employment are limited and approximate,
it is estimated that in the effective labor force of 2.9 million, 8't are mobil-
ized in agriculture and the rural informal sector, 8? are in the urban modern
sector (industry and civil service), and 52 are in the urban informal sector.
The labor force is far from fully employed, but employment in the modern private
sector, the non-agricultural informal sector and the traditional agricultural
sector has been increasing. Modern private commercial employment increased bet-
ween 1987 and 1988 by about 3,000 to a total of 31,000. Of this number, 2,000
are non-nationals, almost all located in the capital, while of the 29,000
Guineans, 501 are locate4 in the capital.
B.    Recent Developments and the Adiustment Process
6.    The new leaders installed after the 1984 military coup launched a series
of ambitious economic and financial reforms. The underlying principle was to
adapt the economy to the reality of the Guinean resource base. The Government's
program, prepared in close consultation with IDA and the IMF, was aimed at free-
ing the economy from pervasive state control, improving efficiency in public
administration and enterprices, and setting up a policy framework conducive to
a market-oriented economic system. In the first phase (1986-88), specific measu-
res were designed to: (i) correct currency over-valuation; (ii) establish a new
banking system; (iii) decontrol prices and liberalize trade; (iv) re-organize
government departments; lv) cut employment levels in the public sector and reduce
public involvement in industrial and commercial activity; and (vi) reori-mnt
public investment in support of productive activities. Transitional measures were
also adopted to cushion the adverse effects of the program's first phase on
vulnerable urban groups.
7.    The supply-side response to the reform's first phase has been encouraging:
agricultural production for internal consumption and for exports, and small-
icale and informal business activities increased rignificantly. Nevertheless,
the underlying weaknesses of the economy and the scale of adjustment needed to
achieve self-sustaining growth are such that the country will inevitably face
a difficult transition over the medium term. Serious institutional weaknesses
linger. Public finance management, the quality of the investment portfolio, and
project design, execution and monitoring have yet to improve sufficiently.
8.    The second phase of the reform program, started in late 1988, supported
by IDA and other donors, includes measures specifically designed tot (i) consol-
idate the liberal, market-oriented economic option; (ii) strengthen national
economic management; (iii) rehabilitate the growth potential of key sectors and
remove infrastructural bottlenecks; and (iv) implement a comprehensive human
resources policy. The latter illustrates the Government's   determination to
achieve both growth and equity and improve the incomes and access to basic
services of low-income households. This brings new elements into the reform
process: revision of the education and training system to reflect better the
country's socio-economic reality, and to meet the needs of a changing economy;
definition, within the PIP framework, of a core investment program in the social
sectors to protect the poorer segments of the population against future cuts in
government expenditures; and financing of investments or recurrent expenditures
for basic services by matching community funds with central government funds.



3
9.    Medium Term Prospects for Growth. For 1990-92, the Government's macro-
economic objectives are: (i) an average annual rate of economic growth of about
52; (ii) a reduction in the rate of inflation to 10? by end 1992; (iii) a reduced
fiscal deficit to an average of 3.6? of GDP; (iv) the maintenance of the real
exchange rate at a level consistent with competitiveness over the medium term;
and (v) a reduced current account deficit (including official transfers) to sn
average of 5.1S of GDP, thereby restoring the level of available foreign exchange
reserves to the equivalent of 4.3 months worth of imports (see Annex 2).
10.   The per annum average growth rates from 1990 through 1995 for each sector
of the economy are projected as follows: (i) agriculture, livestock, fishing and
forestry 3.62; (ii) mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities 5.1 (of
which construction activity and manufacturing are 12.91 and 5.9? respectively);
and (iii) trade, administration, transport and other tertiary activities 5.4?.
11.   The above scenario, which incorporates the financial implications of the
proposed operation, yields a decline in the overall budget deficit on a commit-
ment basis, including grants, from 8? of GDP in 1988 and 5.1? in 1989 to less
than 4.5? of GDP for the 1990-95 periodl, and an improvement in the current
budget balance of the Government, from a deficit of 1.2? of GDP in 1988 to a
surplus of nearly 3.5? over the 1990-1995 period, thereby contributing to the
national savings effort. This outcome would critically depend on Government
efforts to increase non-mining revenues and on strict expenditure controls (see
Annex 2). However, even with the increases in national savings, it is expected
that by the end of the psriod Guinea will still require balance of payments
support in the form of debt relief and new concessional funding. The projected
deterioration in the terms of trade and the drop in bauxite earnings after 1991,
together with the growth in private sector and public investment-related imports
and the increasing interest payments on the public debt, result in a projeceed
current account deficit of US$298 million for the 1990-92 period (see Annex 2).
12.   While most major indicators are projected to improve during this period,
the needed reduction in the fiscal deficit will place the availability of public
funds tor recurrent expenditure under increasing pressure. Overall recurrent
expenditures (excluding interest payments) are likely to decline by about 62 in
real terms over the 1989-95 period. At the same time, much needed civil service
salary increases will require a redistribution of expenditures away from goods,
services and transfer payments towards sala es. Hence, during the next three
years, material inputs and expenditures neec.d to operate systems will suffer
from increasing pressure, and cuts in Government non-salary operating expendi-
tures will be unavoidable.
13.   Balance of Payments and External Capital Requirements: Taking into account
net capital inflows (including identified adjustment lending) and reserve
accumulation targets, there remains a balance of payments financing gap of US$104
million over the period 1990-92. The proposed operation will generate US$27
million of additional sector imports and will provide US$44 million of financing,
a net contribution to gap financing of US$17 million.  The proposed Private
Sector Promotion Operation will contribute a further US$50 million; the
1 All budgetry date *xclude traneactions with the USSR.



4
remainder, US$34 milliou, could b. financed by an ESAF from the IMF and other
adjustment financing frun the Special Program for Africa.
C.    Human Resources and Adiustment
14.   Guinea's population of 6.1 million (1989) is young (45Z under 15 years
old), currently growing a' 2.8! p.a., and largely rural (77!). Social indicators
reflect the poor health status of the population. The health sector is being
supported by an IDA funded project (Cr.1837-GUI) which covers the period 1988-
1993. Population growth of close to 3! p.a. is expected by the end of the next
two decades, with population approachitng 10 million by the turn of the century.
This will put increasing strain on Government to provide essential social
services, notably in education. The population has very limited access to primary
schooling, particularly in the rural areas. Girls are under-represented in
education. Because basic education, especially of girls and women. has a positive
effect on the health status of the population through nutrition, hygiene and
child care, the low education profile of the population contributes to the
population's poor health status. Poor health and limited educational provision
combine to limit severely labor productivity (details are given in Annex 1).
15.   The relationship between education and macroeconomic adjustment is two-
sided. On the one hand, rapid macroeconomic adjustment in Guinea is hampered by
the lack of trained and experienced manpower. Employment is expected to grow
commensurate with the growth in each sector of the economy (paragraph 10). How-
ever, the education and training system produces school-leavers who are ill-
prepared for employment. This has led to a workforce with a low skill-profile,
and has perpetuated the lack of trained, experienced and productive manpower.
16.   On the other hand, desirable measures included as part of macroeconomic
adjustment have repercussions on the education and training system. For example,
the public administration reform is aimed at the development of an efficient and
motivated civil service by reducing the number of redundant and unskilled
employees and granting significant salary increases to remaining staff. Staff
numbers on the public payroll were reduced from about 90,000 civilian employees
in 1986 to about 51,000 at end-1989 (a reduction of about 43!) while real
salaries of civil servants who have successfully undergone evaluation tests were
doubled between 1986 and 1989. The combined effect of these two measures is
estimated to have increased the Government wage bill by 50! between 1986-1989.
Given the projected evolution of the recurrent budget, and taking into consid-
eration other macroeconomic measures -such as reduced deficits- the increase in
the wage bill will have to come from reductions in expenditure on goods,
services, transfer payments and other operating expenses. Given the inadequate
funding of materials in education, the potential effects of these macroeconomic
adjustment measures on the sector would be both disproportionate and damaging,
unless the supply of resources to the sector is substantially increased.
17.   In order to strengthen the sustainability of the ongoing economic
adjustment effort, a steadily expanding private sector and a lean, efficient
public administration, the education and vocational training sector must improve
its performance while taking into account other macroeconomic constraints. For
these very reasons, education and training need support.



5
PART 1I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.    The Current Educational System
18.   Performance: With literacy rates of less than 30Z and a primary gross
enrollment rate of 282 in 1988189, Guinea's education system ranks among the
bottom ten countries of the world. Despite a renewed interest in education after
the change in Government, enrollments at all levels of education fell between
1984 and 1989 as a result of a failure to supply sufficient school places
(particularly in urban areas) and declining demand for education due to low
educational quality and limited 4mployment prospects. The problem is particularly
severe at the primary level, where only three out of ten children of age 7 gained
access to the first year of schooling. Education is unevenly distributed by sex
and geographical area. Girls are under-represented in the overall system (341
of all enrollments); only about 172 of girls of primary school age are in school
as compared to 402 of boys, and the continuation of girls to higher levels of
education is significantly lower than that of boys. Educational opportunity also
favors urban areas, where 542 of the age group are enrolled in primary school,
contrasted with a meager 182 in rural areas.
19.   The quality of formal education in Guinea has reached a crisis point. Only
402 of those who enter primary school complete the cycle2. Student progression
to the next grade is decided by the teacher based on the student's mean perfor-
mance in tests of doubtful accuracy. Large numbers of students fail examinations
and this failure is addressed simply by repetition of the previous grade.
Differences in repetition and drop-out rates exist between girls and boys with
girls tending to drop-out earlier and at key points (in primary's final year,
girls tend to drop-out while boys repeat). High drop-out rates in formal educa-
tion and a limited national literacy 9-ogram have contributed to an increasing
illiteracy rate in recent years, estimated at 60S for males, and 832 for females.
20.   The imperfect match between education and socio-economic characteristics
is not limited to enrollment pattervs or the distributian of schooling throughout
the country, but is also evident both in the slow response of the education
system to labor market changes, and in th- content of, and pedagogical approach
to, learning. Shortages of skilled techni..ians and professionals continue (para-
graph 3), and poorly educated graduates have been slow in making-up deficiencies.
Professional training is still linked to the training of staff for public
administration and not to the needs of private employers or self-employment.
21.   An overly academic approach to primary education has alienated Guinea's
youth from rural life and led to unfulfilled aspirations. The secondary-level
system and technical and professional training centers (CFPs) are not linked to
labor market needs and the content of education at these levels is academic and
far removed from the reality of life and employment prospects. Despite recent
closure and consolidation of some higher education establishments, post-secondary
education has developed in isolation and has demonstrated little relationship
to the high-level needs of a free-market economy. University courses are aimed
2 Avorego empletlon rat  In thn sub-saharan African region In 1908 wore 61X (froncophon.)
and 74X (anglophone).



6
at providing candidates for an already bloated civil service. Thus, education
and training are not contributing satisfactorily to socio-economic development.
In particular, present performance will not permit the fast paced introduction
and dissemination of the many technological innovations required for improved
labor productivity and economic competitiveness.
22.   Structure and Administration: The structure of the Guinean education system
is similar to that of other francophone countries and comprises three levels:
six years of primary, seven years of secondary, and five years of tertiary
education. Vocational/technical studies, lasting 3 to 4 years, are available at
the secondary and tertiary levels. In 1988189, the system accommodated approxi-
mately 382,000 students, with 772 in primary school, 20? in secondary (8? of
secondary school-aged children), 1.42 in technical schools and 1.61 in univer-
sities. The total teaching staff was about 13,000. A central Ministry of National
Education (MEN), overseen by a Minister of Education, is split into an agency
(SEEPU) responsible for all pre-university education under a Secretary of State,
and a higher education agency under the Minister. SEEPU controls all schools
through a provincial structure of five Academic Inspectorates whic', in turn,
administer 36 prefectoral-level Directorates of Education and 210 sub-prefectoral
Pedagogic Delegates. The two Universities, and the National Literacy Program-
(SNA) and the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) are agencies attached to MbEN
and SEEPU respectively. An embryonic private sector provides very limited
primary, secondary and vocational/technical training. Details of the current
education system are given in Annex 4.
23.   Sector Financing: Total public spending on education was estimated at 1.8Z
of GDP in 1989. Tuition at all levels is free and Government finances almost all
recurrent spending for education; in 1989 it allocated 12.9? of its total
recurrent budget to the sector. France and USSR made some contributions to
operating expenditures for teacher training, language programs and higher
education but, in the main, neither donors nor domestic private sources provided
recurrent budget support or direct financing of operating expenses. NGOs and
private sector participation in recurrent expenditures was thus negligible. For
investment, the role of domestic funding is less dominant with the majority of
the investment budget financed by external sources (84? in 1989). Almost 62 of
the investment program went for education investments; however, past investment
has been slow with an implementation rate of 582 in 1988. While domestic public
and private sources are nominally responsible for maintenance and construction
of schools (local d.stricts and Parents' Associations (APEs) for primary, and
prefectures for secondary), high investment costs and limited domestic funds
leave the real burden for the external donor community. The same is true for
vocational, technical training and higher education, where maintenance and
construction is managed by the public sector and almost wholly funded by donors
with some occasional assistance from the private sector.
B.    Past Policies
24.   In 2984, Government launched a program of reform and rehabilitation to
improve tIe operation of education and to relate it to employment opportunities.
The reform included placing educational administration under a single ministry,
reorganizing regional educational management, consolidating and rationalizing



7
higher education, extending secondary education by one year, and implementing
a program of in-service training for teachers. In an effort to improve educa-
tional quality. French was re-introduced as the language of instruction. However,
a number of success prerequisites were overlooked (e.g. at least two generations
of Guineans were less than fluent in French), resource allocation was slow and
structural changes were limited. The program did not address the fundamental
issues (see Section D) and was only partially implemented.
25.   A look at the system from the service delivery end reveals a number of
readily apparent deficiencies that can be considered as the immediate causes of
the system's disappointing performance. Lack of facilities and funds to operate
them account for the low overall coverage coefficients. Low and inequitable
access to education reflects too strong a response to demand emanating from the
more influential members of society. The poor quality of the system's graduates
can be attributed to the use of outmoded curricula, poor teaching methods, a
poorly qualified teaching force, a lack of training equipment and teaching aids,
poor teacher motivation and supervision, a lack of infrastructure maintenance,
and poor health of many of the students. In addition to the above, the divorce
of the system from the needs of the economy and society at large can be attrib-
uted to both demand side distortions and supply side deficiencies: limited adapt-
ation to the changing labor taarket needs (and the requirements for productive
self-employment), a lack of emphasis on the practical and the creative in
curricula and teaching methods, insufficient practical content, an underdeveloped
professional training system, and the continued alignment of the system to the
training of civil servants. The underlying causes, i.e. the fundamental constr-
aints that need to be removed progressively in order to improve system perform-
ance, are analyzed in paragraph 27 et.seq.
C.    IDA's Lending Strategy in the Sector.
26.   Bank policies lay special emphasis on human resources, women in development
and poverty. Sector policies are aimed at reinforcing national education and
training systems in Sub-Saharan Africa with the accent on basic education and
qualitative improvement at all levels. The Bank's assistance strategy for Guinea
stresses this as a condition for success of the macroeconomic adjustment scenario
of growth with equity. More specifically, the strategy aims to: (a) set up a
policy framework conducive to cost-effective and efficient operation of the
system, thereby preparing for future expansion of basic education needed to keep
ahead of demographic pressure; (b) relocate human resources policy from its past
peripheral position to the main-stream of economic development, and (c) support
implementation of Government's comprehensive social policy, with particular
emphasis on basic education. This strategy will allow the education system to
fulfill its primary role of preparing the workforce for productive activity.
27.   Past assistance to Guinea's education sector predates the above strategy
and the Government's adjustment program. While educational project performance
has been positive, it has not had a major effect on the sector because the coher-
ent sector policy framework was lacking, and the projects did not address changes
in education policy. The two previous World Bank education credits (1979 and
1983) addressed manpower needs through training programs for industrial technic-
ians and skilled workers, as well as vocational training, manpower and educat-



8
ional planning, and primary education improvements. Neither project included
major elements of policy change and both were classic investment projects which
did not question the state interventionism of the time nor address questions of
resource allocation or use. The first project was successfully implemented on
schedule with minor cost overruns. The second project (co-financed with the AfDB
and the Saudi Fund) has achieved the majority of its physical implementation
targets and was reoriented in 1987 to reflect improved policies of the Government
and to ensure that issues of relevance and educational quality were addressed.
As a result, learning materials have been prepared and are available for prod-
uction and subsequent listribution. While appraisal targets have been reached
in the two previous operations, experience gained during their implementation
has shown the overwhelming need for a coherent education and training policy
framework linked to the overall macroeconomic adjustment program, and for contin-
uing support for the development of basic education, especially in rural areas.
D.    Current Maior Constraints
28.   A major cause of poor sector performance has been the lack of a strategic
framework for education and training at the national level. During the 25 years
of the previous regime's mismanagement,  the education was used to provide
political patronage and, in some cases, "intellectualism' was cause for
persecution and exile. The curriculum was also highly political and largely
irrelevant to the country's needs. Since the charge in regime, the content of
education at all levels remains old fashioned and outmoded and the teaching-
learning process continues to be limited to lecturing, note-taking and recitation
of often inappropriate contents. In the absence of any strategy, fragmented
initiatives have been pursued (e.g. consolidation of agrotechnological
institutes, expansion of vocational training centers), rather than formulating
and implementing a comprehensive and coherent national policy linking education
to the country's employment needs.
29.   The second broad cause of poor performance is the lack of an adequate and
performing policy implementation apparatus. The key constraints in this respect
are analyzed below under the following headings: (a) inefficient management of
resources; (b) resource constraints which have led to under-funding and skewed
resource distribution; (c) structural deficiencies which have led to low and
inequitable development of education, especially primary education; and (d) human
resources constraints characterized by poorly trained and motivated staff.
(a) Inefficient Management of Resources
30.   The education system is part and parcel of the wider institutional problem;
the Ministry of Education's heavy, over-centralized apparatus has demonstrated
little capacity for assuming its key strategic managerial functions. First, there
is no policy/strategy formulation, a weak planning and evaluation apparatus and
little emphasis from the ministerial level on these tasks. There is no managerial
system which allows for two-way feedback between performanceloutcomes and prior-
ity objectives, or the integration of these objectives into a coherent program.
Second, sector priorities are only partially translated into financial instru-



9
ments. There is no program budgeting. Budgetary preparation and expenditure
control are weak, and financial responsibility is diffuse.
31.   Third. the internal organization of the education system has been poor and
has added to management problems. Responsibilities in the MEN and its agencies
are ill-defined or placed at the wrong level, and there are inappropriate link-
ages which tend to emphasize a 'top-down' approach and ignore the realities of
the regions. In pedagogical research, curriculum development and teacher train-
ing, there is a multiplicity of different units (most at the central level)
which compete to control these areas and ignore the regional ENIs. Decentralized
structures are in place but not effectively autonomous since their management,
logistic capacity and resources are extremely limited. Weak internal coordina-
tion, bureaucratic rigidities, excessive centralization of decisions, combined
with the less than efficient structure have contributed to the sector's inability
to provide sidequate and timely responses to problems. Fourth, statistics for
monitoring the performance of the sector and regular evaluation of educational
results are deficient and often available too late for use by decision makers.
Fifth, in the absence of a coherent sector-wide strategy and an efficient service
designated to deal with external aid inside the sector, donor efforts have been
piecemeal and uncoordinated. Scope for managerial improvement exists through
the adoption of: (i) a coherent sector strategy linked to key policy changes, (ii)
a streamlined organization structure, (iii) a strengthened financial management
capacity, and (iv) greater monitoring based on management information systems.
Thus far, however, the sector has failed to adapt to increasing organizational
pressures and adopt effective management techniques.
(b) Resource Constraints
32.   Under-funding and Skewed Resource Distribution: The sector is under-funded
and resource distribution penalizes learning inputs and basic education. While
both total public expenditure on education relative to GNP and the proportion
of the Government recurrent budget allocated to education have increased, spend-
ing on education has declined in real terms (see Annex 4) and financial austerity
has hit the recurrent budget especially hard. The weight of the past inherited
from the previous regime, the difficult financial situation and the abovemention-
ed lack of policy account for sector under-funding. Analysis shows that spending
on essential pedagogical inputs is considerably under minimum acceptable levels
(in many cases non-existent) and the modest effort of the recent past has not
been sustained. Spending on operating costs, materials, goods, and services
(excluding salaries, subsidies and transfers) has increased from 122 in 1986 to
an estimated 19? in 1989. However, actual expenditures on pedagogical materials
are lower because the implementation of the non-salary budget has declined from
63t (1985) to 33Z (1987).
33.   Allocation of recurrent expenditures between levels and types of education
has marginally improved in recent years with an increasing proportion going to
primary education, but the distribution of resources is still skewed in favor
of potential pressure groups. Higher education, with less than 2? of all stud-
ents, still absorbs close to 252 of educational resources, while resources for
primary education, with 77? of all students, have gradually risen to about 34z.
However, under-funding has negated the potential benefits from even this very



10
tentative movement. Despite this underfunding, the ratio of unit costs by level
to that of primary unit costs are close to SSA averages with that of secondary
education about three times that of primary education; that of technical and
vocational ten timese that of teacher training twenty-three times; and that of
higher education thirty-one times. Given the low level of primary unit costs,
this indicates that underfunding occurs at all levels.
34.   Investment spending is less endangered by limited national funds, being
financed mainly by external sources. However, misallocation is also present in
the investment program. For 1990-92, a figure of 55 billion FG (7.61 of the PIP)
is programmed for the sector (as of early 1990, half of the required financing
had been mobilized). The allocations by level of education reflect the priority
of primary education, but closer examination of projects, indicates a skew in
favor of the capital zone and other urban areas. The underfinancing of the PIP
stems partly from a lack of convincing Government policy made explicit through
clear priority definition and partly from weak donor coordination.
35.   Domestic resource mobilization: Voluntary cost-sharing in education is
taking place is some areas where Parents' Associations (APEs) are active. Encou-
ragement of such initiatives is needed to spread the burden of investment and
operation costs of education, passing greater responsibility to local government
and communities. Scope exists to increase both APE contributions and the proport-
ion of local tax receipts allocated to coummmity projects ("ristourne') with the
introduction of a nationwide matching fund mechanism for school construction.
However, the capacity of the active APEs to make additional contributions is
limited and the introduction of fees for primary education would have a deterrent
effect on the already abysmally low enrollments. Scholarships at post-primary
and higher education institutions are not given directly to students but to the
training institution. They are used for operation of the establishment and some
student aidlwelfare functions (board, lodgings, medical care). While some
scholarships have been used to provide political patronage, there is less scope
for scholarship reform in Guinea when compared to other franccphone SSA countries
where scholarships are direct student stipends.
36.   Resource Use and Waste: The limited resources available for education are
not only poorly distributed but there is substantial wastage. Large numbers of
students repeat their previous grade (repetition rates average over 201 in the
primary cycle) resulting not only in waste but also in a decrease in the number
of places available for 'new' students entering school. To produce a primary
school completer (who on average will have repeated grades at least twice) the
system must dispense about sixteen years of instruction for the six-year program.
Thus, while the unit costs of instruction per student at the primary level remain
a low US$38lyear (with a meager US$0.20 for pedagogical inputs and the remainder
for personnel costs), the poor internal efficiency shows up in wastage and high
costs per graduate. The investment program shows similar deficiencies with high
construction costs and variance between projects. The costs of construction are
exacerbated by a lack of maintenance of existing assets, which leads to their
eventual abandonment and replacement with new facilities.



11
(c) Structural deficiencies
37.   Multi-grade teaching. One cause of inequitable distribution of education
has been the organizational model adopted for elementary schooling. Schools are
conceived and operated according to an urban model based on siX grades (homogen-
eous pedagogical groups). In some rural villages where there are few children
or where school facilities are limited, the school operates with a single grade.
Thus, a group of children are enrolled and progress to the sixth grade, while
those excluded wait for siX years (and as a consequence often do not enter). This
leads to overcrowding in the initial years, and under-utilization of the teacher
in the cycle's latter years because of student drop-out. The application of the
urban school model in rural areas (with its fixed ratio of one pedagogical-group
per teacher and disregard of the group's actual size) is inefficient and limits
enrollment increases possible by an increase in the student/teacher ratio. To
increase educational coverage requires a multi-grade school model where two or
more grades are taught simultaneously in the same classroom. This multi-grade
school model implies changes in teacher training and educational administration.
At present, the number and location of schools, the training of teachers, and
the organization of the classroom rarely reflect the demographic and sociological
context of village life nor the needs and capabilities of rural groups. As a
cause and a consequence, this phenomenon perpetuates rural underdevelopment.
38.   In the past, stagnation in enrollments wau& assumed to be due to a decline
in demand for schooling, but recent evidence shows this to be partially due to
the limited number of places available for n,ew students. In the capital, where
the growth rate is 7Z p.a., 20,000 children seeking school places could not be
registered for the 1986-87 school year. This indicates the existence of a supply
problem in urban and peri-urban areas. Consequently, there is scope for the use
of double-shift teaching (the use of school facilities by two or more shifts of
pupils during the same day) in urban areas where demand is high.
39.   Because of low investment in the sector, the educational pyramid in Guinea
is less distorted than in many other francophone SSA countries. Primary education
has not grown rapidly, but neither have other post-primary levels, especially
general secondary education. Demand is affected by perceptions of labor market
possibilities and by low family income, especially in the poorest rural areas
where the financial capabilities of local government authorities are weak. This
indicates the existence of a demand problem in outlying areas of the country.
In these instances, girls are often left out of the schooling process. Poor
rural families often prefer to have children help with agrarian work during the
planting and harvesting seasons, but the rigidity of the school calendar does
little to accommodate this situation, with the result that absenteeism during
these periods reduces the effective time for learning in school. The absence of
a strategy to prepare youth for the labor market led to supply-side modifications
which were timid and slow (post-secondary agrotechnological institutes were
rationalized and CFP outputs have expanded). Such changes were necessary, but
they have not been sufficient. More attention needs to be paid to the demand-
side. Only with the establishment of a meritocratic labor market will demand-
side pressures force improved quality in education.
40.   Finally, the inequitable distribution of education is itself a result of
Government's overly strong response to demand for services (especially post-



12
primary education) emanating from the more influential members of society and
those who constitute potential pressure groups (university students and urban
civil servants). This has perpetuated the skewed distribution pattern noted
earlier (paragraph 34). A more equitable distribution of education can be achiev-
ed through the adoption of a school model with multi-grade classes suited to
rural areas, through school location techniques and through a primary classroom
construction program based on low-cost community construction and rehabilitation.
(d) Human resource constraints
41.   While the number of education and training sector staff is sufficient,
the constraint is one of staff quality and distribution. Problems of quality are
largely due to: (a) poor incentives and low salaries; (b) the use by the previous
regime of employment in education for political patronage; (c) the country's
isolation from progress in educational techniques; and (d) the absence of staff
training. While the majority of the sector's administrators have had no training
as managers but were trained as teachers, the proportion of teachers who hold
pedagogical diplomas at required levels remains unsatisfactory (less than 502
of primary teachers had a primary teacher's diploma in 1987; 62Z of teachers in
secondary schools have been trained only as primary teachers, and merely 16Z of
university professors hold doctorates). Moreover, the award of the requisite
diploma does little to guarantee the real quality of the personnel as advances
in science and technology render the qualifications of most teachers outmoded.
42.   Staff distribution varies both by level and by geographical area (see Annex
4). At the primary level, the 1986187 average number of pupils per teacher was
39 (P/T ratio). But in the capital, where overcrowding is common, there were 67
students for each teacher (1986/87), while in other towns the figure was 41. In
rural areas the PIT ratio reflects small class sizes and inefficient teacher
utilization (paragraph 37) and was 31. At the secondary level, the rural/urban
imbalance is less prevalent as secondary schools are situated in major urban
areas. Nevertheless, the national average secondary P/T ratio in 1986/87 was low
with 19 students per teacher. These relatively generous staffing ratios and the
skewed distribution continue in other levels and types of education.
43.   Financial constraints have severely curtailed in-service training of all
educational personnel and this lack of training, together with their lack of
knowledge of outside standards, has led to poorly trained and unmotivated staff
who are resistant to change. Staff effectiveness is severely hampered by the lack
of resources, especially at the inspectorate and classroom levels. Transport for
inspectors to visit schools for regular inspection is almost non-existent and
support for teachers from the pedagogical advisory services and the school
inspectorate is rare. Pedagogical equipment and even basic textbooks are absent
from classrooms, reducing even further the effectiveness of teachers. Personnel
management systems are rudimentary and rely on patronage and out-of-date
procedures, ignoring computer-based systems. As a result, there is no monitoring
of staff utilizaticn and their distribution by school level or geographical zone.
One consequence has been an excessive proportion of non-teaching personnel in
the sector especially at secondary and higher education levels and a less-than-
optimal deployment of staff to schools.



13
PART III. THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (PASE)
A.    Educational Development without Adiustment.
44.   The prospects for the sector without any adjustment are extremely bleak.
While population growth (in the capital, growth is estimated at 72 p.a.) will
put increasing pressure on Government to expand the education system just in
order to maintain the same proportion of the school-age population in schools,
public recurrent resources are projected to decline in real terms by 6? over
the period 1989-1995. At the same time, in the framework of the public administr-
ation reform, a much needed salary increase for civil servants who have satisfied
testing criteria is being implemented. A consequence will be reductions in goods,
services, subsidies and transfers. Given the importance of salaries in the
sector's recurrent expenditures (802), if the under-funding continues (with the
sector receiving the same proportion of public recurrent resources), and no
efficiency gains are made, there will be a negative effect on expenditures. This
will lead to a drastic decline in spending on goods and services and insuffici-
ent funds for salaries. Material expenditure per pupil at both primary and
secondary levels is already dangerously low (US$0.20 and US$0.60 respectively)
and scope for further reduction is almost non-existent, consequently the effect
is most limely to be felt in enrollments.
45.   The effect on enrollments (due to a fixed proportion of declining public
recurrent resources, resulting in insufficient funds for salaries and subsequent
staffing shortages) would most likely show through limited primary admissions
and declining secondary enrollments. Enrollments at other levels might also
decline or remain frozen. Without adjustment, by the year 2000 the primary gross
enrclment rate could fall to as low as 172. This scenario is clearly untenable.
B.    The Government's sector adjustment program
46.   Recognizing the gravity of the situation, the Guinean Government undertook
a comprehensive diagnosis of the education and training system. The process was
participatory, and was carried out, in the main, by working groups of national
specialists both inside and outside the education and training system, assisted
where necessary by short-term international consultants. Through the use of a
workshop forum where working group interim results were presented and discussed,
an overall national policy for the sector was defined, together witn a compre-
hensive sector adjustment program. During the iterative process, long-term goals
were compared with projected resource availability in order to ensure program
sustainability.
47.   The goal of the Government's adjustment program is to increase real
expenditures on education within the constraints imposed by overall fiscal aust-
erity while ensuring their rational use. In this context, it addresses the main
constraints identified under Part II of this report. Many of these reflect per-
vasive macroeconomic management constraints. Conversely, the education system's
poor performance is one of the major factors holding back labor productivity and
the effective transition to a free-market economy, and it also limits the effect-
ive use of public resources and the returns on public investment. And it adverse-
ly affects participation of the poor in the development process. For all these



14
reasons, the Government sees the proposed education sector reform as an intrinsic
part of its macroeconomic adjustment program.
48.   The Government's sector adjustment program was formalized in a Statement
of Sector Policy, covering the period 1990-2000, which in late 1989 was approved
by the Council of Hinisters and circulated to donors . Shortly afterwards a
formal Letter of Sector Policy was addressed to the Bank (see Annex 5). The
policy gives the highest priority to improving basic education services, especi-
ally in rural areas. It emphasizes more efficient use of available financial and
personnel resources and a revision of the level and distribution of budgetary
resources to improve educational quality and coverage and make the system more
responsive to economic needs. It also prescribes a restructuring of MEN to
facilitate the achievement of these objectives. Finally, it opens the way for
greater involvement of the private sector.
49. To operationalize these guidelines, Government has prepared a detailed
strategy for carrying out the sector reform. It includes an action plan (Annex
6) that clearly defines objectives and establishes monitorable indicat-frs (see
Section C below) and specific targets. It also defines criteria for integrating
priority programs at the national, regional and sub-regional levels, and provides
a definition of line functions at all levels. The priority programs aim to:
(a) reduce illiteracy, by: raising the primary admissions ratio from 302 to
35Z by 1992, and to 502 by the year 2000, through expansion and internal
efficiency gains;
(b) improve the quality and relevance of education, by: (i) increasing the
availability and improving the diffusion of pedagogical materials; (ii)
pursuing and strengthening curricula reform; (iii) upgrading and increasing
the number of schools, especially in rural areas; (iv) improving the
quality of teachers by means of a comprehensive national program of in-
service training and a reform of pre-service training; and (v) strengthen-
ing the sector's linkage to the labor market and its responsiveness to
the needs of the private sector;
(c) promote social equity with compensatory measures to mitigate the
transitional costs of adjustment on the poor throught (i) special programs
aimed at disadvantaged groups such as girls; and (ii) strengthening
literacy and post-literacy programs.
(d) strengthen the sector's capacity for policy analysis, strategy formulation
and public management and administration by setting up appropriate
institutional and technical mechanisms.
C.    Specific measures under the Sector Adjustment Pro8ram
50.   A  set of eighteen policy measures, which were incorporated in the
Government's Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 5), has been identified as key to
the successful implementation of a first phase of the sector adjustment program.
These measures, regrouped according to the main categories of constraints
analyzed in Part It of this report, are discussed as follows:



15
(a) Measures to improve national policy and strategic framework:
51.   Measure lt Adoption and exNloitation of a comprehensive statement of
national policy for the sector. The Government has substantially completed a
process addressing the lack of a comprehensive, integrated and operational focus
on education at the national- level, and the consequences thereof (paragraph 28).
First, it undertook a comprehensive diagnosis of sector performance. Second, it
prepared and adopted a comprehensive national policy for the sector guiding both
the operation of, and investment in, education and training during the immediate
and mid-term future. Third, Government has published the policy statement and
is using it to guide potential donor inputs and the Government's own program.
Its essence is reflected in the Government's formal Letter of Sector Development
Policy (already transmitted to IDA, see Anaex 5). Government has published and
is using the national policy for the sector to guide sector budget allocations
and donor support.
52.   Measure 2: Creation of a committee to monitor the implementation of key
policy changes in the sector ("Comit4 de Suivi du PASES). The Government has
created, and adopted satisfactory procedures for, a panel of senior technicians
to monitor implementation of the national education policy. This does not require
new structures, but rather expanding and converting the inter-ministerial
committee responsible for overseeing the preparation of the program into a high
level inter-ministerial committee VComitd de Suivi du PASES). This committee
is the instrument, at the highest technical level, for the monitoring and
evaluation of the policy elements and strategic management of the program. It
will meet at least four times per year, and will provide information reports on
a quarterly basis to the PAS monitoring unit of the Government's economic and
financial coordinating committee (CCEF) and to the Bank, and will also be the
key forum for the joint annual performance review with IDA. Its responsibilities
include: (a) follow-up of implementation of measures contained in the action plan
(Annex 6 Part 2); (b) monitoring of the coherence between the sector adjustment
operation and the Government's overall macroeconomic adjustment program; (c)
adherence to the Statement of Sector Policy and the related allocation of
resources; (d) preparation for, and participation in, a joint annual review of
the critical indicators of policy performance, with IDA and other participating
donors, and (e) commission of specific program evaluation exercises. The
responsibilities do not include the implementation of the specific action
programs which support such policy reforms. At negotiations, the Government
transmitted legal texts, acceptable to the Association, governing the creation
and the responsibilities of the *Comite de Suivi'.
(b) Measures to improve general sector management:
53.   Measure 3: Creation of a streamlined senior sector coordination committee
VComitd de Pilotage'). To clarify the definition of roles and responsibilities,
simplify the task of management and better distribute the workloads (paragraphs
31-32), the Government has reassessed the internal structure of the sector
management and made both organizational and personnel changes. Thus, the ministry
has been divided into two separate functional units: one responsible for
university level studies (MEN), and a second responsible for all pre-university
education and training (SEEPU). To coordinate all actions in the sector, and to



16
foster the integration of programs into the glo'dal policy framework, senior
national directors in both MEN and SEEPU form the sector coordination committee
(*Comitd de Pilotage"). The responsibilities of the committee include (a)
management and coordination of sector programs; (b) supervision of the
directorates and units responsible for Implementation; (c) proposal of
modifications In programs to higher levels; and (d) supervision of the link
between regular sector activities and the sector adjustment program. The
coordinating committee is not limited to the sector adjustment program but will
become the main forum for strategic decision-making and technical management of
the sector. At negotiations, the Government transmitted legal texts, acceptable
to the Association, governing the creation and the responsibilities of the sector
coordination committee.
54.   Measure 4: Internal reorganization of the MEN and SEEPU. To further address
problems of poor definition of responsibilities, weak internal coordination, and
dissipation of limited resources, and to concentrate staff and funds on a number
of key critical functions (paragraph 32), several changes have been made in the
internal structure and the responsibilities of various units. First, following
the creation of the two separate functional units mentioned above, small non-
viable units have been incorporated into existing directorates. Second, following
Government-wide introduction of more effective budget and expenditure procedures,
the two "Directions des affaires administratives et financieres' (DAAF) are
receiving training and technical assistance to strengthen their capacity to
prepare and implement budgets which reflecc the overall sector strategy. Third,
project planning, donor coordination, and monitoring is being improved with the
effective creation of a sector level *Cellule d'investissements' in the
'Direction des Statistiques et de la Planification de l'Education' (DSPE).
Finally, project implementation is being enhanced with the reorganization of the
"Service de Construction, Cooperation et Travaux' (SCTP) and the inclusion of
a small unit to supervise the definition and application of new construction
norms and standards. Prior to negotiations, the Government transmitted to IDA
legal texts, acceptable to the Association, governing the reorganized internal
structure of MENISEEPU.
(c) Measures to improve financial resource use and resource generations
55.  Measure 5: Regular monitoring of both budget allocations and actual
expenditures in the education and training sector. To ensure that priorities
are translated into actionable financial programs, and that both budgeting and
expenditure procedures are linked to sector goals and with the overall macro-
economic adjustment program (paragraph 31), the Government will institute two
separate monitoring measures. First, the current system of recording sector
expenditures which takes place in the Ministry of Economy and Finance ("compt-
abilite administrative') will be refined and the DMAFs of MEN and SEEPU will
make regular monthly comparisons of their use of public finances. Second,
quarterly reports showing the comparison of actual expenditures with budgeted
funds will be prepared for the Comite de Pilotage and the Comite de Suivi (and
sent to IDA for information). Third, the Comite de Suivi will convene to review
both budget allocations and actual expenses of recurrent and investment
expenditures, with special attention on their distribution by levelitype of
education and by purpose and nature (IDA will participate in this meeting). At



17
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it wills (i) make monthly
comparisons between the accounts held ty the sector DAMFs and the HEF and send
copies of the quarterly budgettexpenditure comparisons, prepared for the Comite
de Pilotage du PASE and the Comitd de Suivi du PASE, to IDA for its information;
and (ii) undertake, together with IDA and other participating donors, annual
reviews of the past budgetlexpenditure performance.
56.   Measure 6: Adoption of spending norms for critical non-salary inputs at
all levels of education. To address problems due to fiscal austerity and changes
in the distribution of the Government's recurrent budget between salaries, goods,
services, subsidies and transfers; to correct skewed expenditure patterns, limit-
ations on spending on pedagogical inputs and to assist generally in budget ratio-
nalization (paragraphs 33-34, and 37), the Government has decided to adopt: (a)
new minimum spending norms for school pedagogical inputs and for regional and
central administration operations; and (b) a program budgeting approach for the
sector. Spending norms will be standardized and have been calculated to guarantee
the provision of a minimum essential learning inputs. As a consequence, the
application of these norms will increase non-salary operating expenditures per
pupil (pedagogical materials) as follows: primary from US$0.20 to US$4.00,
secondary US$0.60 to US$15.00, technical US$60 to US$86, teacher training US$120
to US$153, higher education US$380 to US$430. These increases will permit increa-
sed textbooks, consumable supplies, materials, equipment and other pedagogical
inputs. Non-salary operating costs/administrative staff at both the central and
regional levels will be increased from US$240 and US$140, respectively to US$310.
This will allow frequent school supervision and inspection. Together with such
norms, the Government will define physical specifications and purchasing methods
for textbooks and other pedagogical supplies wbich take into account economies
of scale. At negotiations, Government and IDA discussed and agreed on spending
norms for critical non-salary inputs for all levels of education.
57.   Measure 7: Adoption of new construction costs norms and building techn-
iques. To lower construction costs and variations construction unit costs (p&ra-
graph 35), and to overcome the lack of maintenance, the Government, with help
from IDA and the regional office of UNESCO at Dakar, have developed new norms
and standards and a construction methodology to reduce reliance on imported
materials and use low-cost community-based techniques. The Government will adopt: (a)
space norms per pupil and per classroom, and (b) standardized costs of construc-
tion, based on the results of this experience. In addition, Government will
introduce a preventative maintenance program for primary schools (confirming
the responsibility of local Government and APEs) and secondary and administrative
buildings (where Central Government will play a more active role).
58. Measure 8: Creation of a matching fund to increase locally generated
resources for educational investment. The existence of the APEs and the use of
the local tax Oristourne to fund small investment projects at the local level,
is a phenomenon that merits support (paragraph 36). The Government will therefore
create and operate a mechanism to match funds allocated from regional taxes and
parent contributions, with funds from the central investment budget. To address
the disadvantaged position of rural communities and schools, the proportion of
the central investment budget allocated to r;ALal schools will exceed that
allocated for urban schools. Prior to negotiations, the Government transmitted
to IDA an assessment of the new constructior costs and methodology, and at



18
negotiations the Government proposed procedures, acceptable to the Association,
for the operation of the matching fund mechanism for primary school development.
59.   Measure 9: Promotion of private education at all levels. Given the unmet
demand for schooling, especially in urban areas, the Government proposes to
remove barriers to the creation and operation of private schools. This will be
done initially througat (a) facilitating access to land and building permits for
private education, while excluding direct financial support for initial invest-
ment in infrastructure; and (b) the preparation of a system of limited subsidies
for non-salary learning materials aimed at ensuring qualitative standards.
60.   Measure 10: Allocation of an increased proportion of Government finance
for the operation of the education and training system. Recognizing that, even
with efficiency gains resulting from the above measures, enrollment targets
would not be reached, Government has decided to rationalize the sector budget
and to address the sector's under-funding by increasing the sector's budget
allocations. The increase required is beyond the resources immediately available
to Government, hence the need for external assistance. At negotiations, the
Government submitted to IDA the programming of the unallocated portion of the
recurrent budget funds to the education sector. The Government also gave
assurances that during the credit period, it would progressively increase the
share of national resources allocated to the education sector in order to ensure
adequate sector financing subsequent to the operation.
*d) Measures to address underdevelopment and to increase relevance of the
educational system:
61. Measure 11: Promotion of a revised primary school. The low development of
primary schooling is m^inly a rural phenomenon due in part to small schools,
dispersed population and schools which cover only the first few grades of
education (paragraph 38). To address this, the Government is promoting a primary
school model based on a wide range of adaptable operating systems (multi-grade
rural schools and double-shift urban schools). Experimentation has already taken
place and, on the basis of a school-mapping exercise, schools are being identi-
fied and selected for the introduction of multi-grade teaching, linked to the
availability of re-trained teachers. A major program of primary classroom
construction and rehabilitation will be undertaken using the new construction
norms and methods already mentioned. Classes located in rural areas will be
operated as multi-grade units, thereby contributing to better resource utiliz-
ation, increasing girls' enrollments, and redressing tha inequitable distribution
of schooling3. The on-going revision and experimentation of primary school curri-
cula will continue thereby making education better adapted to Guinean conditions.
To better understand the barriers to the greater participation of girls and women
in the education system, the Government will undertake a study on present parti-
cipation levels. At negotiations the Government submitted an implementation plan,
satisfactory to IDA, for primary classroom construction.
3Rec1nt studies *lsewhere in the region have shown that multigrade schooling tncrean
parental Involvement thereby reducing resistance to the enrollment of girls.



19
62.   Measure 12: AdoDtion of limits on grade repetition. To reduce grade
repetition (paragraph 37) and noting that, according to recent research, repet-
ition is more the result of administrative habit rather than a reflection of
student inability, the Government has: (a) set limits on repetition at all levels
o_ schooling; (b) introduce remediil classes or sections for repeaters: and (c)
apply age-limits for public school eamination candidates and for entry to
specific courses or levels of education in public institutions. Over the period
1990-mid 1993, the implementation of such restrictions on student repetition
would generate no cost savings per se but would free-up student places allowing
the additional enrollment of about 30,000 students. Prior to negotiation copies
of the administrative instruction governing the reduced levels of repetition
allowable in the system were provided to IDA for information.
63.  Measure 13: Completion of higher education rationalization. Enrollments
in higher education have been contracting for several years, especially since
the reorientation and closure of the agrotechnological institutes. However, to
reduce operating costs which have not fallen commensurate with enrollments (costs
for student living support have gradually r'seni over the last few years), the
Government will complete the rationalization of higher education with a reduction
in the number of uneconomical faculties and training programs. This will be
accompanied by course consolidation, rationalization, further reduction in
enrollments, and cost containment of student living support. To assist in such
rationalization, two specific studies will be carried out: (a) a study on the
quality and efficiency of higher education, and (b) a study on the costs and
future financing of non-pedagogical living support for higher education students.
64.  Measure 14: Rationalization  of the current technical  education and
vocational training system. As mentioned (para. 39), supply-side modifications
to education to better respond to changes in the labor market have been timid
and slow. To improve the relevance of education, to guide the development of
technical education and vocational training, and to reinforce training linkages
to the labor market, the Government will: (a) create an advisory body on skill
training and technical education in which Government, industry, and employers
would be represented; and 'b) undertake the rationalization of vocational train-
ing to concentrate on meeting private sector needs for technicians and skilled
workers. The latter entails the amalgamation of about five under-enrolled and
under-equipped CFPs in the seven recently renovated CFPs. The determination of
future directions and implementation plans for *post-primary' vocational, techn-
ical and professional training, the responsibility for the CFPs, the role of the
Office National de Formation Professionelle et de Perfectionnement (ONFPP), the
introduction of a rural orientation to ONFPP work, will all form part of a study
on the direction and control of technical, vocational and professional training
with special emphasis on links to employers and self-employment.
(e) Measures to improve personnel performance:
65.   Measure 15: Introduction of a computerized personnel management system.
A large degree of the under-utilization of staff is due to poor personnel records
which are updated manually, often obsolete and do not allow management and effic-
ient allocation of teachers and non-teaching staff (paragraphs 41-43). To address
this, the public administration reform will be extended to the education sector,



20
which until recently, had not been subject to the same selection and testing
process as the majority of the civil service. To complement this, the sector
personnel management system will be computerized. This will entail the prepar-
ation of job descriptions, the testing and selection of staff, and their confirm-
ation in specific budgetary posts.
66.   Measure 16: Application of new staffing norms to achieve improved staff
utilization. The pupillteacher ratios in rural primary schools and also in some
secondary schools which have led to the inefficient use of staff (paragraph 42)
will be addressed through adoption of new more efficient staffing norms based
on both double-shift and multi-grade school operation patterns (see measure 13)
and on revised pupillteacher ratios. The application of the public administration
reform will lead to: the more intensive use of staff; the reduction of administr-
ative staff at certain levels; and the reallocation of excess personnel at all
levels from non-teaching to teaching positions. At negotiations the Government:
(i) agreed with IDA on the new staff utilization norms; (ii) submitted to IDA
a sector-wide staffing strategy which included targets for staff redeployment;
and (iii) agreed that each year during the adjustment program, it would discuss
and agree with IDA the annual sector-wide program of staff redeployment,
recruitment and training.
67. Measure 17: Creation of a consultative body charged with coordinating
teacher training activities. In the areas of teacher training, curriculum deve-
lopment and related educational research (paragraph 32), the Government has
already consolidated small non-viable MEN units dealing with these functions
(measure 3). In addition, to ensure better coordination between the "National
Pedagogical Institute' (IPN) and the regional teacher training establishments
(ENIs and 'Centres de la Formation Continue'), the Government has created a new
consultative body for teacher training. The consultative body is not an addit-
ional structure, but an advisory panel to which members of those institutions
which play a key role in teacher training are designated. Its role is to: (a)
coordinate teacher training activities; (b) reinforce the existing teacher
training structures; and (c) analyze in-service teacher training activities and
propose improvements. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the legal
text, acceptable to IDA, creating the new consultative body for teacher training.
68.   Measure 18: Introduction of in-service training programs. The poor skill
profile of the sector personnel -both teaching and non-teaching staff- (paragraph
41), is being addressed through comprehensive in-service training which includes
teaching techniques for multi-grade and double-shift classes, the use of text-
books, improved schools management and inspection, and environmental issues.
Following from the results of the public administration reform's survey of the
sector, and the documentation of a need for a change in the skill-mix of the
administrative staff, specific staff-development programs will be prepared for
key managerial personnel not already covered under measures 2 and 3.
D.    Costs and Impact of the Proposed Program
69.   Program Costs and Financing: Cost projections, broken down by sub-sector
and by expenditure category, have been made for the duration of the program.
The total estimated capital and recurrent costs during 1990-mid 1993 for public



21
education will be US$207.5 millions (current prices). Assuming that Government's
support to education during 1990-mid 1993 will continue at roughly the level set
during 1987-89, and taking into account donor commitments for 1990-mid 1993 and
increased participation of local communities and parents' associations through
cost-recovery and cost-sharing measures, the incremental cost associated with
the implementation of the sector adjustment program is US$43.9 million (current
prices) over the period 1990-mid 1993. Over one half of this sum is due to the
large increase in non-salary recurrent and capital expenditures necessary for
rehabilitating the system and for implementing the sector adjustment program.
70.   Based on current macroeconomic projections, by 1993-1994 the current
macroeconomic adjustment program will have begun to show positive fiscal effects,
especially in the mobilization of non-mining revenue, of the economic recovery
(see Annex 2). The projections show that by 1993-94 Government would be able to
maintain the increased budgetary allocations for education and training and to
fund the anticipated cost from its own increased resources. Further details on
the costs of the financial, budgetary and educational impact of the sector
adjustment program are given in Annex 7.
71.   Cost Savings. Measured in terms of net incremental expenditures that would
have been required in the absence of adiustment to achieve numerically equivalent
educational outputs, the sector adjustment program would generate recurrent cost
savings within the education sector conservatively estimated at about US$3.5
million (current prices) per year (102 of the education recurrent budget), or
more than US$12 million over the three-year adjustment period. This estimate
understates the cost-saving effects of the program as it excludes: (a) reduction
in the cost per primary graduate4 (such savings become sizeable once the full-
effect of the reform program have worked through the system and also once the
system itself has expanded); (b) savings on the investment budget during the
same period (estimated at US$13.5 million); and (c) global savings (including
those that accrue outside the sector) resulting from the effects of the sector
adjustment on the quality of the civil service, and on the adoption of the new
low-cost construction technology on projects outside the education sector.
72.   Budgetary  Impact.  Comparing past  sector expenditures  and projected
budgetary allocations in constant USS; between 1987-1989 the education sector
budget declined in real terms by an average annual 122. Between 1989-1993, the
sector adjustment program will require an annual average increase in real terms
of 7?. The major increase occurs in the first year of the adjustment (28Z in
1990) with an annual average increase of 12 thereafter (1991-1993). The
proportion of Government's total recurrent budget allocated to education would
be increased by 502, rising from 122 in 1989 to 16? in 1990, and progressively
increasing to 182 by 1993. Thereafter, the allocation to education would
stabilize at this level. The sector adjustment program would not entail
earmarking resources for any particular level or type of education, or any
specific educational expenditure. However, the adjustment program would
contribute to budget rationalization, while the sector policy targets -aimed at
4 Simlation havo shown that the 1988 cost/prlmry graduate of US8812 could be reduced as
low as US29 by the year 2000 (constant 1990 prlces) If the reform's qualitative lmprovomsnt
translate Into a reduction from 25X to 12% in primary repetition rates.



22
primary education and budget cost norms- would provide both flexibility in alloc-
ating resources to primary education and a guarantee that minimum non-salary
expenditure levels would be protected during budget reallocations. Between 1987-
1989 the primary education budget declined in real terms by an average annual
102. Between 1989-1993, the sector adjustment program will requires an annual
average increase in the primary education budget of 102, with the major increase
(34Z) occurring in 1990 and an average annual increase of 3? thereafter.
Expenditures on pedagogical inputs and operations (non-salary, non-subsidy
expenditures) would increase dramatically. Between 1987-1989, there was an annual
average decline in such expenditures of 62. Between 1989-1993, the adjustment
program will require an average annual increase of 202. Again the major increase
of 862 would occur in 1990 with an average annual increase of 3? thereafter.
73.   Economic Impact. To the above purely financial and budgetary impacts must
be added the program's effects on the economy. While such benefits are extremely
difficult to quantify and are often felt only long after an education program
has been completed, they are substantial. They include: (a) positive effects on
labor productivity through measures to improve quality and relevance of education
programs, to support manager training, and to remove labor market rigidities;
and (b) more efficient economic management at the central and local levels
through better trained civil servants and strengthened budgetary procedures. In
addition, studies of the support for the development of primary education in
developing countries have consistently shown that primary education has a high
rate of return (estimated at 25? in some francophone SSA countries).
74. Educational and Social impact of the program. The program's impact on
enrollments would not be immediate, but would set the stage for future rapid
expansion after the adjustment period. Annex 7 shows the impact of the adjustment
program on enrollments by level of education for years 1989 (actual) and 2000
(projectedg). It is estimated that implementing the reform package would bring
about: (a) a reduction in the cost per primary graduate (footnote 4); (b) an
increase in total enrollments (estimated from 380,000 in 1988 to 670,000 in
2000); (c) an improvement in the gross primary enrollment ratio (estimated from
282 to 431); and (d) a more efficient use of primary teachers. In addition, the
following positive social effects are noteworthy. First, the program would have
a positive effect by providing protection for critical sector operating
expenditures during a period of financial austerity. Second, by supporting a
program of rural primary school construction, the program would assist in
redistributing essential services in a more equitable fashion. Third, in addition
to addressing vulnerable risk groups (primary school age children, especially
girls and those in rural areas), the program would support the initiative already
started under the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Program by supporting a core
expenditure program and increasing access to primary education.
5 1999/2000 has been choen as the endpoint to w the offect of adjustmnt mad. during 1990-
1992 work their way through the primary education level.



23
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Rationale, Objectives and Description
75.   Rationale for the Credit: The Government's education sector adjustment
program is fundamentally in line withs (a) the Bank's special emphasis on human
resources and poverty; (b) the Bank"s assistance strategy for Guinea, which
stresses the development of human resources as a condition for success of the
macroeconomic scenario of growth with equity; and (c) Bank policies for the
sector, which support strong measures to adjust and revitalize national education
and trainire systems in the region with emphasis on primary education and qualit-
ative improvements at all levels. Further reasons for strong and direct Bank
support of the Government's program include: (i) the program's emphasis on
comprehensive basic sector reforms; (ii) the strong impact the operation would
have on both efficiency and results; (iii) its links with the structural
adjustment program which it deepens and complements in several respects; (iv)
the fact that the Bank is one of the main donors and has been active in education
in Guinea since the 1970s; and (v) the useful role IDA can continue to play to
assist the Government in mobilizing and coordinating donor assistance during the
implementation of the program.
76.   ObJectives: The key objective of the proposed operation would be to support
a first phase of the Government's sector adjustment program described in Part
III, with a view to: (a) improving sector strategy formulation and managerial
capacity; (b) rationalizing the sector budget thereby preventing a major
deterioration in the sector by making more effective use of the scarce (but
increased) resources available for an expanded education system; (c) addressing
the underdevelopment of education by securing resources for starting a program
of primary classroom construction and rehabilitation; and (d) increasing the
relevance of the content of education to the employment prospects, economic needs
of the country, and address gender issues with programs of special emphasis.
77.   Description of the Credit: The credit would support implementation of a
comprehensive package of educational policy reforms necessary to achieve the
above objective through the provision of US$2C million equivalent in quick
disbursing funds to be provided in tranches during a period of three years (1990-
mid 1993). The quick disbursing nature of the credit is warranted given Guinea's
difficult balance of payments situation and outlook, and is closely linked to
the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. Without this operation, recurrent
budget cuts required to improve the public finance situation would result in a
serious underfunding of basic services and, when taken together with the applic-
ation of the public administration reform, would further compress recurrent
spending on essential sector operating expenses such as pedagogical materials.
78.   The credit would finance general imports subject to a negative list. The
counterpart funds generated through the financing of imports by the Credit would
be channelled through the national budget and allocated according to standard
public finance expenditure procedures and the allocative targets for education
sector expenditures outlined in the sector adjustment program. There would be
no earmarking of the credit proceeds or counterpart funds; nevertheless, the
sector adjustment program policy measures are such that the levels and distrib-
ution of both investment and recurrent expenditures for the education sector,



24
and the application of critical cost norms for non-salary pedagogical inputs,
would be tranche release conditions. Without such support for sector finances,
implementation of the critical sector adjustment measures would be jeopardized
and the coverage and quality of education and training would deteriorate. These
funds vould be provided during the period when measures to ensure the viability
of public finances are being implemented by the Government under the macro-
economic adjustment program. Beginning in 1993, the sustainability of the
increased expenditure would be assured by increased revenues resulting from the
measures adopted under the macroeconomic adjustment program. In addition, cost
savings resulting from key sector policy changes, together with increased
participation of both local communities and APEs, and increased donor grants will
reduce the financial burden and bring the increase within the sustainable range
of Government finance.
79.   Because implementation of the Government's education reform is demanding
and will require assistance over a number of years, this operation should be seen
as the first of a series of closely-linked consecutive operations aimed at
restructuring and strengthening the sector. Two adjustment operations are
foreseen before a return to project-based lending may be possible. The second
operation would be aimed at consolidating the efficiency gains, internalizing
the increased regular budgetary allocations and processes, building staff
capacity, and making sector staff fully responsible. Subsequent project-based
lending, built on the revised sector strategy and improved internal capacity,
would allow a more rapid expansion of the system.
B.    The Sectoral Adjustment Program and its Review
80.   Program Review and Tranche Lelease: The operation would be driven by an
Action Plan of monitorable policy measures where disbursements would be
conditional upon progress made in implementing key actions. Such progress will
be examined in detail by Government and IDA at joint annual reviews with the
"Comite de Suivi du PASE' (paragraph 52). Progress on the policy elements of
the operation will be examined for a steady approach -consistent with policy
objectives and priorities- and to assess performance on the criteria for, and
levels of, both past and future resource allocation to the sector. Satisfactory
performance will mean respect of minimum targets, strict application of expend-
iture norms, and an increasing allocations to the sector from the Government's
budget. Additional conditions of second and third tranche release would be that
progress in implementing the overall education sector reform is satisfactory and
that the macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the objectives of
the education sector adjustment program. The following table includes measures
from the Action Plan already taken by Government, and selected key measures that
are conditions of tranche releases



25
Table 1
Key Conditions for Tranche Release6
Actins already token: Gov-rnment has
(a) dopted th  Statemnt of Sector PolIcy as the overall fr _mwork for guiding Government and
donor interventions. (*1)
(b) *et-up the inter-_initseril monitoring coittee (*Com1t6 de Suivi du PASEO), the sector
coordination comitte. ("Coalt& de Pilotsg do PASEO), and the Technical Secretarlat with
the appropriate mandate, and ensured that adequate managerial and budgetary *xpertise Is
vov ia  to support the sector coordination committee and the MEN/SEEPU directorates.
(#2,3,4)
(c) coneistent with program objective. and prioritioes, agreed on: (t) minion opending norms for
teaching matorials/primary pupil (2,800 FG/pupi 1/year), ad operation spending/administrat-
iv. staff (210,000 FG/staff/year); (it) a recurrent educational budget which permits applica-
tion of revised spending norms and enrollment tncroeae; and (iII) increased proportions of
the edueation budget for primary education (84X In 1990), and materials/operatlon expendi-
tures (16X In 1990). (6,10)
(d) developed proceduree. acceptable to IDA, and an Implementation schedule for matching local
community inittatives In primary claessroom eonstruction with funds from the education budget.
(#7,8)
(e) prepared a sector staffIng strategy for 1990-1993, satisfactory to IDA, with targets for
redeployment, training, recruitaent, and staff utilization to ensure that 73 of all rural
primary classes operate with multigrade t aching In 1900. (#16,16)
Before 2nd tranche release: The Government will have provided evidence that Its macroeconomic polIcy
frameork is consistent with the education sector adjuetment proram and:
(a) reviewed with IDA previous budgetary period's actual expenditures for respect of minimum
spending norms, budget *lIloction and distribution targets (tn 1991: 34% for primary and 17X
for materials and operation) and agree on the loels for next budgetary period. (0,10)
(b) made budgetary *llocations for matching locally generated primory classr(o construction
funds consistent with the objective of Increased enrollments, and agroe with IDA on an
Implementation calendar for primary school construction and rehabilitation. (0,8,11)
Cc) agreed with IDA on annual sector-wide program of staff redeployment, recrultmnt and training
and an acceptable personnel mnagement strategy aimed at increasing the proportion of rural
primary classe  using multigrde teaching to 20X (1992). (#16,18)
(d) revised entrance requirements for primary teacher trainees to allow trOining of holders of
lower secondary certificates. (#17,18)
Before Brd tranche reloase: The Government sIl have provided evidence that Its macroeconomic policy
fromeork is consistent with the education sector adjustment program and:
(a) reviewed with IDA previous budgetary period's actual expenditures for respect of minimum
*pending norms, budget allocation and distribution targete (in I: SX for primary ond 18X
for materials and operation) and agree on the levls for next budgetary period. (#,10).
(b) made budSetary allocotions for matching locally generated primary clssroom construction
funds consistent with the objective of increased nrollmento, and agree with IDA on an
implementation calendar for primary school construction and rehabilitation. (0S,811)
(c) agreed with IDA on annual sector-wide program of staff redeploymnt, recruitment and training
and an acceptable personnel mnagement stratgy aimed at Increasing the proportion of rural
primary clases using multigrade teaching to 27X (1993). (#16,18)
(Cd) submitted proposals to IDA for the continued operation of the sector coordination comittee
beyond the credit period, with a view to consolidating the sector's organizationol and
managerial Improvemente. (p,4)
6Numbers In brackets refer to the key masures defined In Part III selected as tranche release
conditions.



26
81. Complementary actions which will be undertaken will support and internalize
the adjustment process. These activities inciudet
(a) a program -at both the central and regional levels- to reinforce the
sector's managerial and institutional capacity for more cost-effective
allocation and utilization of resources, especially in budget preparation,
expenditure control and personnel management;
(b) a program for the supply to schools of essential pedagogical inputs (books,
consumables and equipment) to ensure that the new norms for pedagogical
supplies are Implemented from the beginning of the operation;
(c) a program of in-service teacher training in multi-grade teaching techniques
and the revision of primary in-service and pre-service teacher training;
(d) a program of rehabilitation and expansion of primary classrooms -mainly
in rural areas- using low-cost community-based construction techniques,
and relying on local contributions, APEs, local taxes and a matching fund
from counterpart funds;
(e) specific studies to address both special groups and the relevance of the
post-primary education and training system to the future employment
possibilities and the needs of the economy. These will include: (i) a study
on the barriers to the greater participation of girls and women in the
educational system; (ii) a study of the future direction and control of
technical, vocational and professional training with special emphasis on
links to employers; (iii) a study on the quality and efficiency of higher
education and (iv) the costs and future financing of non-pedagogical living
support for higher education students.
C.   Linkage to Overall Macroeconomic Adjustment
82.   The sector adjustment operation would reinforce, in a variety of ways,
key elements of the country's overall structural adjustment program. First,
credit counterpart funds will be integrated in the Government recurrent budget
and allocated to the sector on the basis of agreed spending norms. Respect of
the norms will de facto guarantee the increment required in the sector budget,
thus strengthening the financial management of the sector and reinforcing
Government's overall financial management (this provides a direct link to both
the macroeconomic policy framework and the Economic Management operation).
Second, by implementing revised staffing norms and double-shift and multi-grade
teaching organization patterns in schools, and by adopting expenditure norms for
pedagogical inputs, the sector will achieve greater efficiency and equity in the
use its resources.
83.   Third, the preparation of the operation has provided the opportunity to
make substantive changes in the internal structure of the sector's organization,
its management and control, especially with respect to staffing. This completes
the public administration reform for the largest single group of civil servants,
who were previously not subject to the PAR testing process. Fourth, by improving
the quality and efficiency of the education and training system, unit costs per
graduate will be reduced at all levels and worker productivity should improve.
The operation would thus contribute to a better return on public investment in
education. Finally, by implementing a portion of a comprehensive social policy,
the operation not only directly addresses an important new element in the second



27
phase of the overall adjustment program (see paragraph 8), but also provides
protection for basic services during a period of financial austerity and
redistributes the benefits of public spending in favor of vulnerable social
groups (children in rural areas).
D.    Costs, Financing and the Allocation of Credit Proceeds
84.   Size of funds and Co-financ.ing: Total program costs would be US$44 million
equivalent, excluding taxes. The quick disbursing component would amount to US$32
million equivalent and would be financed by an IDA credit on standard IDA terms
(US$20 million equivalent) and the major portion of a USAID grant (US$12 million
equivalent). Project related support for critical expenditures on technical
assistance, training and other related expenditures would be financed by the
minor portion of the USAID grant (US$3 million equivalent) and a grant from the
French Fonds d'Aide et de 1a Cooperation (FAC) (US$9 million equivalent).
85.   Number, size, and timing of tranches: The credit would be disbursed in
three tranches, the first of US$6 million immediately on effectiveness (June
1990); the second of US$7 million would be made available after a second tranche
review mission has determined that tranche conditions have been met, and that
satisfactory performance is taking place (mid 1991); and a third and final
tranche of US$7 million after a third tranche review mission has determined that
the tranche conditions have been met and that satisfactory progress is taking
place (mid 1992). These dates are indicative and depend on satisfactory progress
in implementing the adjustment program. For the co-financing, which is in
parallel, the quick disbursing element of the USAID grant would be released in
parallel with the IDA credit after satisfactory tranche review and release of
IDA funds. The remaining funding from the USAID grant and the FAC grant of
program support would be released for specific activities according to normal
USAID and FAC procedures. The action plan with details of tranche conditions and
performance targets is attached as Annex 6, and tranche release conditions were
discussed in paragraph 80.
86.   The Allocation of the Credit Proceeds: The credit would finance general
imports subject to a negative list. The foreign exchange costs of the sector and
its direct import requirements are small (only 21Z of the total sector
requirements) and in the main, are already financed by bilateral and multi-
lateral programs. Financing exclusively sector imports would limit resource
transfers and not provide essential local costs for the sector. For these
reasons, use of a positive list of imports linked to the sector is rejected. The
use of credit proceeds to finance general imports not specifically tied to the
sector is also coherent with the need for balance of payments support outside
the PAS operation as the latter cannot address all sectoral issues in detail.
E.    Implementation
87.   Preparation Status: Preparation is complete. A study on the financing of
the sector has been carried out and, at the request of Government, the Bank
organized several sector seminars and workshops including one on the use of a
micro-computer-based education financing model. These steps led to the



28
publication of a Declaration of Sector Policy, agreeable to the Bank and approved
by the Council of Ministers. and the establishment of the program coordinating
committee. Revised texts governing the internal structure of the MEN and SEEPU,
and the program management were discussed at appraisal and the revised
organizational structures are in place and operating. The measures included in
the sector adjustment have been largely identified and prepared by the
Government, whose commitment to the program was confirmed in the Government's
Letter of Education Policy (Annex 5). All of the critical adjustment measures
have been started and some will have been completed prior to Board Presentation.
88.   With the help of consultants, work is substantially completed on: (a)
improved budgeting and expenditure control procedures; (b) rural schools and
multi-grade teaching methods; (c) teacher in-service and pre-service training;
(d) investment programming for the sector; and (e) computerized personnel manage-
ment systems. Learning materials prepared under the second education project are
available (paragraph 27). Preparation of the primary school rehabilitation
program has been completed. Experimentation with community-managed, low-cost
rural primary school construction has already taken place; it encompasses new
rural school prototypes designed during a seminar organized locally by UNESCO
in January 1989. Results of a consultant's study on the participation of APEs
were made available to the appraisal mission. NGOs interested in assisting rural
communities have been identified. Further work on the definition and content of
the critical studies on higher education and on the fit between the labor market
and technical and vocational training will be finalized at negotiations.
89.   Program Monitoring and Evaluations To structure and manage the review
process and to oversee the implementation of the critical measures included
under the adjustment operation, the Government has created an inter-ministerial
committee, the 'Comit6 de Suivi du PASE'. The committee will meet four times each
year and will liaise directly with the group responsible for monitoring the PAS
by providing quarterly reports to the PAS monitoring unit (Cellule Technique)
of the Government's economic and financial coordinating committee (CCEF) and to
the Bank. The 'Comite de Suivi du PASE' is composed of one senior staff member
each from MEF (chairperson), MPCI, MRAPP, MEN, MID, and two from SEEPU. The
'Comit4 de Suivi du PASE' will commission program evaluation exercises as needed,
will be the Government's interlocutor with IDA, and consequently will be the key
forum for the annual joint Government/IDA p3rformance review.
90.   Program Managements The credit would not create a project implementation
unit, but would integrate the management of the program into the existing MEN
and SEEPU structures. The regular daily management and administration of the
specific actions included in the adjustment program, as well as the general
development of the educational system, is the responsibility of individual
directorates of MEN and SEEPU. The heads of the senior directorates of MEN and
SEEPU form a sector coordination committee (OComitP de Pilotage du PASE')
responsible for implementing the adjustment program. In matters which relate
dir(ctly to the adjustment program policies, and also on matters such as procure-
ment, accounting and disbursements for program activities,  the 'Comit4 de
Pilotage* and the individual directorates call on a Technical Secretariat for
assistance. The Technical Secretariat acts as the secretariat for the 'Comit4
de Suivi du PASP, through the OComit6 de Pilotage du PASE0. This Technical
Secretariat is composed of not more than three persons, one full-time national



29
coordinator, one senior advisor in education adjustment programs, and one senior
advisor in management, economics and budget administration. The Government has
appointed the full-time national coordinator, the French have already provided
the senior advisor in education sector adjustment, and USAID will provide the
third advisor. Specialists for procurement, accounting and disbursements and
other key T.A personnel will be recruited at the earliest possible date and will
be attached to the relevant technical body. It is hopedt (a) that the need for
a specific Technical Secretariat will disappear towards the end of the operation
when the managerial capacity and experience of the MENISEEPU sector coordination
committee is established, and (b) the *Comite de Pilotage du PASE' will not limlt
its actions to the sector adjustment program, but in time will become the
principal forum for the management of all actions related to the sector.
91.   Procurement: Procurement of goods financed by IDA would follow procedures
already used under PAS I and II, designed to permit rapid use of funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. In addition, verification
of imports would include both preshipment certification by a specialized service
and inspection upon arrival by customs services to verify the quantity, quality
and price (with the exception of ICB) of goods financed with the IDA credit. Such
procurement would include the CIF price of public and private sector imports
excluding goods: (i) classified on the negative list of imports; (ii) purchased
in the local market; (iii) already financed under bilateral or multilateral
grantsicredits; (iv) imported under single source purchases (direct contracting),
unless they qualify for proprietary or standardization reasons; and (v) imported
under contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent. Direct imports by
Government and the private sector would require international competitive bidding
(ICB) for contracts above US$2.0 million. For contracts below that amount, 1)
the Government would follow public procurement procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank, and would, at a minimum, obtain price quotations from three separate
suppliers; and 2) private purchases would follow established commercial
practices, and wherever possible, quotations for eligible suppliers from at least
two countries would be sought.
92.   Disbursement and Special Account: The proceeds of the credit would be
disbursed against general imports not specifically tied to the sector. To
facilitate disbursement of the IDA credit, a program special account would be
opened by the Borrower in the Central Bank of Guinea and an initial amount of
US$3.5 million would be deposited into the special account from the credit. The
Central Bank would be responsible for maintaining this account and for submitting
withdrawal applications (WAs) and the necessary supporting documentation. The
account would be replenished regularly up to the limit of the size of the current
tranche on the basis of fully documented reimbursement applications presented
by the Central Bank. These WAs would be aggregated into packages of at least
US$250,000 equivalent, would also include a statement of account movements since
the previous application, with the balance certified by the Central Bank, and
a reconciliation showing tihat the balance represented is the original amount less
payments awaiting reimbursement of the small working advances.
93.  Accounting, auditing, and reportings The Central Bank would maintain
separate accounts for the IDA credit, cofinancing funds, and Government
counterpart funds. At negotiations, the Government would give assurances that: (i)
all program accounts woul.d be audited annually by an independent auditor



30
acceptable to IDA; (ii) the Government would submit the audit reports, including
an audit of the special account, to IDA for review not later than March 31 of
each year, beginning in 1991; (iii) the audit reports will certify that the funds
were used for the purposes for which they were provided; and (iv) the 'Comite
de Suivi du PASE' wiil submit to IDA: 1) quarterly progress reports (including
the quarterly budgetlexpenditure comparisons), the first of which by June 30
1990; 2) beginning in 1990, before December 15 of each year, an annual report
in preparation for the joint annual review showing progress in implementing the
sector adjustment program, and including the draft investment and operating
budgets for the sector; and 3) a completion report within six months of the IDA
credit closing date.
F.    Credit benefits, Risks and Risk Management
94.   Benefits: Three main benefits are expected to result from this operation.
First, the operation would both support and reinforce the overall macroeconomic
adjustment program and extend critical reforms (budgetary improvements, cost-
containment, more efficient and effective resource use) into a key sector. The
reforms supported by this operation should make a key contribution to alleviating
a major constraint to development in Guinea by laying the foundation for improved
performance of the education and training sector. The public administration
reform, itself a cornerstone of the adjustment process, would be completed for
the largest single Government agency. Moreover, the operation would provide
support through a tranche release process that should sensitize the central
organs of Government responsible for public finance management to the need for
regular and increased allocations to education and training, and the budget
process and expenditure controls would be strengthened and fully implemented in
a critical sector. Second, the operation would increase allocations to the sector
during a period of austerity and provide support for measures to alleviate the
burden of macroeconomic adjustment on some of the most vulnerable groups of the
pcpulation, specifically children of school-age. It would allow the Government
to introduce a program to rehabilitate education infrastructure creating about
70,000 student places in primary education (paragraph 74), to promote the
education of girls, and to implement improved minimum spending norms on essential
pedagogical inputs. Third, the operation will support educational reforms which
promote qualitative improvements in education and prepare the education system
for subsequent expansion. Following implementation of these reforms, the
aducation system will be better able to provide the trained technical and skilled
manpower needed by the private sector, and to keep pace with the expanding demand
for education due to population growth.
95.   Risks and risk management: The risks are threefold. First, a lack of
commitment to policy changes on the part of Government might lead to the measures
outlined in Part III of this report not being implemented. To address this, the
preparation of the operation relied heavily on consensus building at both the
national and the sector levels. This resulted in the adoption by Government of
a formal statement of sector policy and a satisfactory institutional framework
for overseeing policy elements; key monitoring and management functions are
reinforced with the creation of the "Comite de Suivi du PASE' and the sector
coordination committee. In addition, tranche release is linked to the joint
annual review of performance on the operation's key measures. Second, implementa-



31
tion of the sector reform might exceed the administrative and managerial capacity
of the HEN. This is addressed as above, by consensus building and strengthening
of the institutional framework; key directorates are reinforced and specialist
support is available from the Technical Secretariat. In addition, the operation
contains a selective choice of measures, to be implemented in a phased manner,
and does not encompass immediate implementation of all aspects of the reform.
Finally, unsatisfactory performance on the macroeconomic structural adjustment
program would jeopardize the ability of the Government to sustain the education
reform and place the measures begun under this operation at risk. To ensure that
linkage of this operation to the macroeconomic situation is monitored, the
'Comite de Suivi du PASE' provides quarterly reports to the Government's Economic
and Financial Coordinating Committee (CCEF), and the annual joint review of
performance of the operation includes review of the recurrent and investment
budgets. In addition, tranche release for this operation is linked to satisfac-
tory progress on the structural adjustment program (PAS).
PART V. BANK OPERATIONS & COLLABORATION WITH IMF & OTHER DONORS
A.   Aid Flows and Bank Operations
96.   The second phase of the structural adjustment program receives special
joint financing from Japan and cofinancing from the AfDB, EEC, and France, yield-
ing a total assistance of USS 125 million. The FAC launched a technical assist-
ance program in parallel to the Bank's Technical Assistance Project. In 1985,
the UNDP contributed to the Guinean Administrative Reform with an Administrative
Reform Support Project, complemented by an TiA Special Project Preparation
Facility.
97.   The World Eank has sustained the restructuring of the Guinean economy
through both adjustment credits and investment operations, in close coordination
with the IMF. Other Bank activities have expanded since 1984, owing to the major
change in Government policy orientation. They support the Government's efforts
to reduce the economy's dependence on bauxite and mobilize the country's diverse
sectoral growth potential. In the agriculture sector, the Government and the
Association have agreed on a policy which emphasizes support for smallholders
(with marketing and financial incentives), and access to technology and applied
research. This led to the implementation of three projects between 1985 and 1987.
In the mining sector, the Bank is providing technical advice to the Government
for possible diversification of activities. A transport sector operation,
including a follow-up to a successful port project, was approved in November
1987. The Bank is also helping to improve rural health services (particularly
in the area of family planning) and overall health sector management. Two
education projects (1979 and 1983) have addressed high-priority manpower needs,
with vocational training, manpower and education planning and improvement of
primary education components (see Annex 3 for a status of Bank operations in
Guinea).
B.    Relationship with IMF



32
98.   The Fund is primarily responsible for advising the Government on exchange
rate adjustments, monetary reform, credit policy and external debt management.
The Fund also supported other aspects of the reform in which IDA took the lead,
in particular the reform of the banking system, which included the liquidation
of the state-controlled banks and the establishment of new banks. The IMF Stand-
By and the first structural adjustment facility were approved in February 1986.
Following the release of the second tranche of SAL I in January 1988, IDA
presented to the Board a second structural adjustment credit (PAS II) for SDR
47 million. This became effective in March 1989, and a second annual arrangement
under the Structural Adjustment Facility was concluded with the IMF in March
1989. Financing requirements for Guinea's balance of payments during 1990-92
are expected to be met through the substantial funds mobilized for PAS II, a
third-year SAY, debt relief and other balance of payments assistance, including
this proposed credit. A Second Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Management approved in November 1988 provides critical support for the structural
adjustment program.
PART V. RECOMNENDATIONS
99.  I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recomend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1990



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousands of square kilometers) ......................... 246
Per Capita Income (GDP) *..................           *........ ....... US$380
Total population (1989) .................................... 6.1 millions
Urban population as percent of total pop. ........................... 271
Average annual population growth rate .......       ...................  2.8X
Population density per kilometer              ........................... ?t5Z
Life expectancy ....... ^  43 years
Infant Mortality (per thousand life births)              .     .148
Fertility rate ........ .... ................ 6.0
Crude birth rate (1985) (per thousand) ............................... 45
Crude death rate (1985) (per thousand)         .......... ............ 20
Age structure of population
0 - 10 years                   ... . .... . 312
10- 30 years             .....    ... ................. ....... 352
30- 65 years       ...........................      ............... 292
over 64 years .....        ..    ....................          . ..... 52
Percent of age group enrolled in educations
Primary .............................282
Secondary 0..........  0...........0......82
Tertiary ..............................21
Literates as 1 of adult population .......... ..         .....     ....    282
Total labor force (in millions) .................................. .....  2.9
Primary Sector ..........................2S
of which, agriculture .................... . . ......... . ... 722
Secondary Sector .3..... ....      ...............................  31
tertiary Sector  ion9rate. .... .................. 9Z
Labor force participation rate ....................392



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
"Key Macroeconomic Indicators'
iullAI Fi;MCI4 OPEMTII OF TIE ER&AL iOiEIJIIEtiT
(An billions of 6Dma francs)
(acluding trnsactim sith the USSR)
I986    1l97    1       199    IO    191    1992    199    t1994    19           1990-
est.           pro jec t j ans--  1m
Revee ad grants                              77.5   139.4  121.1   239.2   325.4   361.1   36.7   411.0   421.4   435.3    *.03
tae reeues                                   41.2    94.4   109.6   t49.0   230.1   265.3   22.7   2U.9   300.9   320.0    6.5S
Nidnmg sector revenu  11                     50.4    76.0    72.0   109.5   140.8   153.5   153.3   142.7   138.4   141.1    0.0O
of ehicht MS                               47.3    71.4    64.3    99.1   127.0   119.2   120.2   113.5   106.3   IR1.9   -2.U
un-4iin sfctr ren                            10.6    20.4    37.6    59.4   69.3   111.0   229.4    44L2   142.4   176.9   14.9S
Tax*% D ice ad prdfits                      1.1     1.6     2.9      4.7    10.4    11.2    11.9    12.7    13.4    14.2    4.52
Tues an goods and ervice                    4.1    10.4    23.7    39.4    53.0    49.2    80.4    92.1   102.8   113.8   16.52
of ehich, petrole  prodcts                 0.0     1.?    10.0    1.?    2L.       37.4    43.1    46.a    53.8    56.2   15.62
anes a interntional trad                    5.4     8.4    11.1    15.3    24.0    31.5    36.9    41.4    44    50.9   14.4U
Onter                                       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Unn-ta reveu                                  3.5     6.2    14.0      5.7    19.2    22.9    25.0    25.9    2S.9    25.9    4 .1
Grants                                       12.6    34.4    36.1    54.4    76.3    79.9    89.0    9.3    94.6    89.4    3.21
Total  penditere                            116.9   182.2   251.9    19.9   394.1   443.4   496.4   527.2   547.7   5S    L57- -
turrent  peniture                          48.6   .03.0   137.0   171.5   294.9   211.9   221.7   22L.0   231.5   25.         3.
Maen an Salaries                           16.2    21.3    45.5    61.0    72.9    11.5    37.1    9S2.3    94       101.7   64.9
Otker "ds ad rnvic                         29.0   40.0    37.7    55.1    63.7    74.8    82.5    78.0   60.4    32.3    4.42
rSusidies nd transfes                       9.5   1IS0    22.9    25.4    20.6    16.t    18.0    21.3    21.4    21.4    0.52
of ehichs sevranc paats                    0.0     3.4      5.0     0.7     2.S     0.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
interet payets de                          12.1    17.7    30.9    30.0    37.5    3L0    34.1    33.4    32.8    30.5   -4.1t
Capital expediture                           48.1    79.3   115.0   146.4   197.3   251.7   274.7   302.2   314.2   304.7    9.1t
Deflct, coetunt bais                        -39.4   -42.8   -90.3   -I0.7   -6.5   -95.5  -101.7  -116.1  -124.1  -10L2
Change in etternal arrears (red-              3.2    -5.3    12.2   -12.4    -2.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Cha   in domestic arrears (red-)              0.0     3.1     1.0     0.5   -10.I      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Dficit, cah bes                             -34.2   -44.4   -77.1   -92.4   -10.7  -95-.         7 -201.7  -11.1  -14    -IO.2
Financial                                    36.2    44.S    77.1    92.4      O.     93.5   103.4   105.    117.4   124.4
Fesign Financing, not                        34.0    43.3    H4.9   104.3    06.0    93.5   103.4   145.8  1t7.4   124.6
Iraeinp o los                            40.1    54L      90.6   114.4   141.4   159.3   175.7   14.4   174.4   164.5
leortization                            -25.2   -35.7   -56.4   -53.0   -59.4   -72.7   -78.7  -47.3   -4.4  -44.
lbt relief                               26.9    10.6    20.4    87.3      87      4.9      6.6     5.4     4.4     4.7
Chnge In ortiation arrena                -7.9    13.3    10.2  -44.5    -5.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Onetic Financing, oat                         2.2    -0.6    12.2  -11.4    -5.3       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Flnacingq l                                     0       0       0       0        0      -2       2      -10      4       19
llE."82 NDOUI    ItEA%
Exchmgp rate Fl Ss                          34      429      475     52      61      70S      725      33     735     73      2.2S
ENR inde                                    100      94      t02     108     15       105     104     104      104     104
8D, cuorrnt FS billim                       45      679    1124    151    I22    2161    2392    2597    2793    300         9.42
Rev e   es . grants a 2 of  p              9.n    u.93   1.0t      1.4u   13.0    13.2t   12.9    22.12 I1.7t   I1.St   -2.4t
a-lsnisng rewe        as   of              1.62    2.32    3.33    3.n      4.42    5.1      5.4t    5.42    5.30    5L9      5.12
Salaries as   of currt ep.                245    20.42   33.22   3L.4    37.0t   38.42   39.3    41.02   4I.8t   43.12    3.13
Debt srvice as 2 of rvnu                 -23.22  -29.5t  -35.3n  -26.33  -42.22  -35.03  -34.52  -30.22  -2.42  -20.42  -13.42
Pulic invetnt as 2 of total esp.                  43.5t   45.64    4.41   50.1U   54.3t   s5.5t   57.32   5.n    5.4          2.42
Deicit fcoeett) a I of  P                 -6.0t   -4.92   -L.      -5.1t   -3.4t   -4.43   -4.3    -4.5t   -4.5t   -3.52
Curr. deficit ecl. grants as 2 of Y       -4.4     0.21   -1.23    0.60    2.7       3.5t    3.64    3.St    343    3.n       4.0t
Pulic Savingp as I of UP                   1.32    4.1t    2.2t    4.33    472    7.22    7.37    7.22    4.63         . U    -0.22
Cuer Price trde  (eod avrepl              100.0   136.7   174.2  223.3   259.0   24.9   302.0   317.1   329.8   34L3          5.61
Trading prtr inflatit   u basis,          100.0    17.4  12.5   220.0   123.3   133L    131.3   143.4   149.0   154.7



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Table 2: Guinea: Balance of payments, 1988-1995
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
(exc. transactions with USSR)
am0     am      to"   taa    to"    to"          ato'   to"
- ~
Te" bsa..                          -1.4    04.0   UD.5       U.      36.2    46.0    30.2    so I
&e.m Clb)                      Us9. .   s6.a   TS.?   6.5   n4.6  7M.             30.-?   1".7
s_owto                        -4,..  -mSu   -s.2  .4.a   .a-.1    -4.  -vw.s  .74e.?
Sk;e    *" P.;..e. Tr_ de.        -no.?    W$5.   -7*.2  -36.6  -.1 I    36.7  -340.0  -3t.6
-f<ere.,ee.. *e*                -O1a.a  -Us.a  -1,0.?  -        -Ia    -5.?  -31S.$  .120.8  -130.0
^..w e  ""                     .13.4  -1064.3  -27.6  .166.3s  .1830  -14120  .2.31.?  -172.3
o      t .tefe. not             .34.7   -48.?   -31.6   -4t.    -4 .4    4 1.2   -39.7   -S.?
aft;e.i Teawde                      3.5   07.6   1s1.6   1.    17.4    .21 z37.0   140.0
C.f.e..'  ee t bme.              -aaa.$  -16.S.   *aa.a  .-173.   -166.S  -10*.   -17.?  -M6.
C;405..                             30.6    sag      fa.?   134.0   11S.3  l*U.4   1T34   210.3
PAi. me";"l. to" %*.              1.0    42.0    64.1    u.S 0    s0.    U6.a   I=-*   ag.,
Phbil mie if. .6. ,   _   W        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Mi s  ;ted  _;_n wmee             20.3      6.6     6.6    1.6    18.S    10.6    14.0    14.0
atme sivettit. eae. -  e"ned    in    6.S    10.0    10A.    12.S    14.3    16.3    13.?    21.4
&VW$ a  e_miesieme                  10.0     $.      0.0      0.0     4.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
0..e-ell b.C_"                    -170.0   e07.6   .20.4   -41.0   -U.6    -17.I      6.7    37.4
011.eiu' iltegg                    170.0    07.3    20.4   21.6       3.0     0.0    .47    -4.6
tA Sd e*fauelre. .   .L t         43.0     3.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
redit Itwo" d                       .0      6.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
0 and *e;ineeieue. vML tt          0.0    4S.    U.         0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
cth.W Odj.edAmC Ie4dia             0.0     0.0      3.0    30.0    30.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Cemqp  ;. in  _ a37.0   46.6   -11.6                        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
c_otee in                         22.4   -2a.?   410.3   -16.2    4.1    4.6   -11.0  .1.0
DP. a4                           o0.0    17.2     2.4    -4.     -1.0    4.2   _-S.    -0.3
e2.4   -36.0   -36.7    -7.4    4.1    4.4    4.8        4.7
f l                             43.7   147.4    13.2     0.6     0.1     7.?      6.3     6.4
nuh..                              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
31                          00 e0.0         0.0   -17.4    4.2   -t8.0       4.0    4o.6



ANNEX 3
Pag. 1 of 2
STATUS OF HE GROUP OPERATIONS IN OUINEA
A. STASTURNT OP BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 30, 1990)
AsOnt tn UlS sillien
(loss camcellations)
Loan or      Vista                                                                                     idis- Clsing
Credit fn.     Yta   Dorroer                               mourpos                lank         IDA     burid   Date
Credits
12 Craditis)i closed                                                                         150.14
2IIU1OI        fl9                                    iENA 'TRY ra      (DFCI                19.00       3:50  12/i1/9i11R
CI4380-GUI    16    GUINEA                            PETROLU  EIPL.                          8.00       .30 06/30/90(R)
C14570GI       1914   GUINEA                          HImAYS III                             28.00      12.79 09130190iR)
C14"0-UI       1994    UINEA                          URAN I & SULEIENT                      10.70       .49  12/31t90(R)
C15f-GU1   1985   GUINEA                             TEOINICAL ASISTNMC                      9.50       .00  06130190(R)
C15950-6U1     199   6UINEA                          NOER ENBINEERINB 11                     8.00      3.19  12131190
CIAO-GUI    1986    GUINEA                            GUECEDIB AGRIC.DEVT                     6.40        .59 04130192
C1636GUI       1986   GUIEA                           FIRST AS SEVICES                        7.50       3.40 0n130/12
C17GUI    1914   GUINEA                               NINERAL SECtUlR  NT                     3.90       .24  04130190
C14441-U       1981   GUINEA                          Lou   I & SWPPLEIt                      4.50      2.77  12/31190
C172SW1I       197    GUINEA                          LIVESTOCK SECTOR REN                    9.80      6.83  12131/S2
C19150-GUI     1997   GUINE                           TRANS SECT                             55.00     47.03  0130192
CISS7O-GUI    1938   GUINEA                           POP/EALtH                              19.70     1S.4U  12131/93
186 UI    1998   GUINE                               AGRIC.SEEDS                             9.00      7.18 06130/94
C1910WI    199   GUINEA                               HIGIUAYS IV                            55.00     51.31 -12131193
192"6UI(S)  193    GUINEA                            SAL 11                                 65.00     33.40  12/31190
C195-WUl    1919   GUINA                              RESEI  ElTENSION                       18.40      17.04  12/31194
19430G1       1999   GUNElA                          SECOND ECN N6T SI                      14.50      11.46 00 130/94
1965-GUi    19819   GUINEA                           MATER II                               40.00      35.00  10/31/96
199"GI(   1999   GUINIA                              SDA                                     9.00      L.92  1231194
2041-GUI      1990   GUINEA                          FORESTRY 8 FISHER  I                    8.00      7.95 04/30/94
C21006-GUI    1990   6UINEA                           MAT RL INRAUC                          40.00     40.45  121/1195
C211206UI    1990   GU1IEA                            SECOND URDAM                           57.00     55.59  12131195
OtiL _ndr Credits a   24                                                                      517.10    371.42
3 Loas(ts) clued                                                                 73.50
All closd     fwr      UINEA
TOTAL nvdr Lons *   0
TOTAL                                                             7.50      47.24
of shich repaid                                                 55.38        1.21
TOTAL held by  ank I IDA                                          19.12     464.03
Aent sold
of sbich reped
TOTAL onishrd                                                                          371.42
Notes:
*   Nont   ffective
"  Nlt nt sign
Total  prod           yts, ad Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Lons and Credits.
(RI indicate  fereal ried Closing Dte.
(S) indicate  SALIhEUL Loas nd Credits.
The Net Apoved Jd ank  epaYmts are historical valu, all others are earkt value.
The Singi  Effective, and Clsing date  are bas  upon the   n Dawrtnt of ical data and are not taken
;,ee the asi  uduet file.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
B. SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Karch 30, 1990)
Fiscal
Year                   Obligor                 Type of Business         Loan  Equity    Tot*l
-_-----usS    0 ---
1983   Socito  Mixte Arodor Guine-  S.A.       Diamond Mining           18.8      1.2     14.8
1988   Banque International, pour Is Comerce Commrcial Bank                -      1.0      1.0
at de l'Indusetri d. la uin-e
(BICI-GUI)
1987   Socite International. do. Granites      Ree_arch and             0.1         -      O.1
Marbree *t Rochea Aesimilees (SIGMAR)  DOvelopment
1988   SIGMAR It                               Uncommitted               2.8      O.5      8.3
1988   Auritfere de Guinea                     Gold Mining               7.5        -      7.5
24 0       .7    2iT.
Leos  Cancellations, Terminations, Repyments and Sales                   (14.8)    (8.5)   (1653)
Exchange Adjustments                                                       6.7         -     5.7
Total Comitment. Now Held by IFC                                          14.9      2.2     17.1



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Statistical Profile of the Sector
(i)    Overview
Table 1 - Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of
Education
Table 2 - Key Pedagogic Parameters by Level of Education
(ii)   The Primary Sub-sector
Table 3 - Urban/Rural Breakdown of Primary Schooling
Table 4 - Internal Efficiency in Primary Education
(iii)  Teacher Qualification and Training
Table 5 - Primary School Teachers by Qualifications
Table 6 - Secondary School Teachers by Qualifications
(iv)   Sector Financing and Costs
Table 7 - Evolution of Education Expenditures, 1986-90
Table 8 - Distribution of Recurrent Education Budget by
Type/Level of Education, 1986-90
Table 9 - Unit Costs/Student by Nature of Expenditure (1988)
Ci) vrvie.
Table 1 - Ebrollmt ad Shrolont Retioe by Level af Eduction
are" Enr lme nt Ratios  Priney    Secandory   Profeioal  Hier
Sdcol  Primry Secodary  Higher
Year  ueatiai UEdtito  Education  blroll. Female brol. fe_le Ebroll. fwale Ebrol . Femils
1984/68  ass  11        -  27,6804     98,818  26   7,80   -   10.664  -
9I88/8s    291    161    -  276.418  126  68,474  261  68.290  370  68601
1986187    271   as      -  270.140  811  76.1518  2511  *.d  86   6,7153  141
197W/8    28     8s      -  288.914  811  74,688  ZS 761  lS  8.92  IS
198181   201      al     -  298.81  81S  74.272  241"868       6,248  161
Seurct Hinietry of Sluceton and *_alo tate



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Table 2 - Key Pdaic parameters by Level of Education
Prlmary              Secondary
Legth of cycle (yers)                                                 7 
Number of acheel (196/07)                   2,17?                   216
Numbr af t.achere (1986/67)                 7,65                    ,761
oft tamale teachr                            2go                    ox
I ot private sector enrol I t                  2s                     -
Pupil/teacher ratio (1086/0                    so                    26
Average class size (18/6?)                     40                    46
Average numbr of pupi la/book                n.e.                  n.*.
Numb.. days/hol yer (18/6?)                  1in                    1it
Ntumbr of hours/school wee  (1986/7)           so                   n.*.
N_mbr ot utl year./g rwdut                   16.1                  n.8*
X of repeater (1086/6?)                      236                    260
X of cohor comploetig cycl-                   six             425 (lr cycle)
Source: Ministry of Education an mstioa etlm.tee.
(1i) The Primry Sub-nector
Table 3 - Urban/Rural Breakdon f Primary Schoolg - School Year 196/
Urban Areae
Coakry       Othe           To"al
Rural Are"               Urbon Ares    Uran Are"        TOTAL
Enrol Imnte            142,784    60,92            U,676        158,66     29t,61
Nume oft lasroom         6,m          so?          1,4612         2,849      7,49
Nue oft schools          2,500         74            204            360      2,87?
Pup'lI/teacher rtio         31         67             41             U          80
Averag el i  size           2          76             6             6t          46
Average schol asiz          71        g              2a             416        124
Sources ministry ot Eductlon.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
Table 4 - Inernal Eftl.iency tn Primary Iductlon
a -da            lure A.      2. A.        S A.         4o A.        so A.      So A.
Girle Total  Girls Total Grls Toal Girls Total Girls Total Girls Total
Re_at Rat      *    23    261  24X    263 253    273 24X    343 273    483 44X
DropoutRate   22316 3       1231          6 11a      14X 31        e t1    24X 31X
Repea Rau      283   16"  so  26         813 273    26  283    111  273  2473 46S
DropoutR 1no153 i3 531    lS 101    14X 313                       14X 318     273 233
196/07
Rpet Rate    263  263    21S   1s        2   263    263 223    24X 231         3  Sa3
DropoutRnte    73   ax    17X 18    1in   o          17  1       24X 13 1 1   363 
Repat Ratu    si   273    27  253    27S 223    233 273    293 26             38  8
ropout Rate    ax   oX    1S3  a3    153163          161sl    24X 316ox        4  2911
Reat Rate    263  23X    823 103    273 223    283 173    2   21X    26  22S
ropout Rate   173   73        13         153 1i 83    161         243163      163X 21
Soerce: Ministry ot Education ad mission estit.
(iii) T eher qual Ifclation and Tralning
Table t - Prlmry Sehool teacher. by QuRoIf liatslo
Tot I
School    l*ntltuteurs        !emtitutoure                Primry
Year       Ordinatres         Adjolnts       Mobiterur s    School Fomle,
No. 3         No.   S          Mo. S      Teochors   S
19J4/05      3,799   463    4,913   51i       15   23        7,94?    - 
1005/3       8,678   46X    8,780   so        152   2        7,65      -
160/07       8,704   51S    3,664   480   1u5   13           7,48    16s
1007/00      3,949   553    8,258   44X        06 S   3      7.28?   203
1066/6       4,628   661    2,940   893        91   is      7,088   223
Soure:t Ministry of Educaton and mission estimates.
. Pore ntao do not amd to 10 due to rounding.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Tble, 0 - Secondary School T?"hors by qua liicationo
School             DES               U6.tuteureo   Etudi Sncoftry
Vasr       (dip.d'na.oup.)           Ordaina..    Staglair.    School  Fm_l
N.   S           No.      3        NO.   S       T"Oel  X
1904/85         1,2"      291      2,79       so       260    as        4,814       -
195/1           1,191    825       2,364    onS   215  01               8,74 -I"
1906/S7         1,840      1l      1,79I      so       440   12S        8,577
1917/1          1,870      88      1,686    523S       856  1u           8,014      73
lOW/U           1,718     40S      1,611    481        211   6a          8,7U       9X
Source: Vlnistry of Educotion and  sseon detimet".
*   reentage de not ad  to 1W  duo to rounding.
(lv) teewr. Meagne g  coo"
Tabl* 7 - &i#Ai. of WgE.tla , bp  4lton* 156-130 (IN1 Itw
-lug------ -1167-  -g-   -10-   -1
Edow.(5)                    a                0 38,13      1.010   2.10C*            2,069
,ss.(F                                       0   7,3T    8,am    8,1          0    10,210
M     _mbI.. Tota       8,904             8,01    15,0    4,99   18,40    tO,au    us.m
amt. T.tl              46,100            79,100 139,810  115.000 176.3   146,400   167,100
ss.68 g o VW              0.35             6.5    7.1       4.15    6.13    7.1      0.21
I bmi.m                                                   MA.
eThI    16
S.lapis*        4M0    4,254    S,0    6.44,  SO."*    9.4  31,o    13.o.  1S.06,
5    69.5    2.       665 .     .=1  76.15    76.0   78.13    13.15    70.13
*ade & 5.vlm  476  1, 4    lam        64    1709 1.28    8,49        SOS"      4,05
10.15    1.06    35.16        6.1   12.13    1.35   10.1    19.15       21.15
Truaefeu A tb.     0      806      400     nO   1,8O0         1    ,471.eS,    1.86  1.87a
*     0.06    5.15     8.45    6.46    .5    11." 1    7.1      7.1      6.3
Mus.T.1.        4.611   8,1      7S81    7*,78   18,44    13.12   IS,3    16.31    3,*410
0.t.Tell       61,66   86,700   64*S16   5,1S0  .2tO  106.106 135.   141.800   13O.406
S 0,t... eke.    7.15     9.15    11.46    9.15    4.1     1.46   15.05    12.05    14.15
TOMAL CW
tftal ftw.xpwAdltw     9,113            10,60           17.111          511,14    8,1=
SGi.Ib.(6'  _mab)        W.6              12.4            10.2             00.8    619.8
-lug--    -1W-                   -115--    -1901-- -1990--
r Qillm 10) FM6.000                     67,ooo         1,12,o000       1,6,006 1,0,0006
=W    - Ik.               1.46             1.15             1.              1.5      1.1



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
Table 8 - Distribution of Recurrent Educ. Budget by Type/Level of Education
---1986--- ---1987--- ---1988--- ---1989--- ---1990---
Actual     Actual     Actual     Actual      Budget
Primary              31.0?      30.0?       31.3S      32.9S      33.4?
Secondary            23.0?      24.02       23.7Z      25.2Z      22.32
Technical             6.0?       6.0?        5.5?       5.0?       4.92
Teacher               2.9?       3.1?        2.8?       4.3Z       2.82
Higher/Resrch.       27.1?      27.0?       29.4?      23.6?      29.4?
Central Admin.       10.O?        9.9?       7.3Z       9.0?       7.2?
Total               100.O?     100.0?      100.O?     100.0?     100.0?
Table 9 - Unit CostlStudent by Nature of Expenditure (1.988)
Level  ----Salary---  ----Goods-----  ---Transfers--    Total As a mult.
PG      S       PG      S       PG       S              Primary
Primary    12,512 99.5?        63  0.5?          0  0.0?    12,575         1
Secondary  38,242 99.5?       203  O.5?          0  0.0?    38,445         3
Technical 110,856 88.5?     7,900  6.3?      6,463  5.2?   125.219       10
Teacher   201,683 71.2?    40,000 14.1?    41,651 14.7?   283,334        23
Higher    167,813 30.6?   l57,314 28.7?   223,416 40.7?   548,547         44



ANNE 5
Page 1 of a
REPUILIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATIQN SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TME GOVERNMENT'S L1TER OF EDUCATION POLICY
REPUBLIC OF GUIEA                                            Conakry, October 21, 1099
Work - Justice - Solidarity
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
THE MINISTERt
No. 1257/MEFISO
To Mr. Berber Comabl-
President, The World fank
1.10 H Street, N.V.
Wshington, D.C. 20485
Subject:     EDUCATION DEVELOPNT POLICY
Door Mr. President:
1.          I am writing to you in regard to the proposed Education Sector Adjustment Credit In order
to advis the International Development Association of the educational rdformn being carried out by the
Government of the Republic of Guinea. The 9g0s for development of educetion were set forth in the
Interim Progrm for National Recovery (19S-197), aiomd at reforming and expanding the syste, which It
is hoped may ultimately become slf-u uficent  tn  te   of notional resources.  In rocent omntha, th
educatton srategy h   ben reviewed and developed in the *Education Policy Statement,' which has ben
the subject of dscussions and hs ben adoptod by the Council of Ministers. This statement, together
with the current budgt   for the sector, Is appended to this letter for your informaton.
2.           s           aou a ware, In 1984 the Government embarked on a Recovery Progrm to revitalize an
ecanow In deel      Phase 1 of this progrm has bee  succeesfully comted  wIth significant
i rovements in the balance of paymente  conomic growth and the qualiy of lfe of the people. During
this firet phas  a greattdeal                        e  to crtn  polies gerd to a market
ecnomy, with r;orm and rehabiitat on of the socil s ctors   ng hld back for lter. Phase 2 of
thts program Is now In effect:  it rinfores esrlr reforms and inclu   eur  specifiaelly
deigned to (t) Improve the mnagm_nt of the public fin ane; (Ii) ration lIze the  ivil  service; (III)
consoliida  progres toward a market conomy; and (Iv) tmpleme  a cot pretv   ociol policy dtta
Idlnt-rntn    co t of ad ustDnt. thtorintroduces now elements Into the Governnt n
reform programs revision of the education *yst to bring It Into Itne with the needs of the conoy
definition of a priority Investment program to safeguard disadvantaed segments of society from po    le Is
downward adlJutment  in goernment spending; and provision of Centra  Government funds to supplement
loal authority resources intonded to finance costs related to social services.
3.          The Qovernment to aware that the nation's prosperity depends on the people's lovel of
education; It ti equally aware of the Impossibility of pursuing thes educational policies with the
current methods of financing. Accordingly, It has decided to aopt the following course of actions
(a)   Effect adjustments within the education budget to mk meore cost-effective us of oavailble
resources to Improve the quality of educatton, and to rais the school enrollmnnt ratio,
Instead of morely increasing employment within the sector;
(b)   Increoso the resources assignd to the sector In order to raise minimum standards for
outlays on supplies, equipment and operating expenses, In conjunction with increasd
cost-effectivenes ofd the system;
(e)   Tost a program of multigrade instruction and expansion of primry education in rural areas,
whilo at the *sam time adjusting the education system to ensure that the Instruction and
training provided mesh better with the neds of econemie productivity;
(d)   Introduce masures designed to Increase the availabl ity of Instructional materials, expand
the corps of teachers, rtais  Internal ffi cieny and mke education more relevant at all
levels by means of a program of in-service training for staff, correction of standards
governitg such staff, change In the definition of qualifications, and the distribution of
techers and non-teachers;



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of a
(s) Take account of compensatory measures designed to mitigate the transitlonal cost4 of
*d3 w b t *xp rl-nced hy diadvanta$ed groups In society In *uch a manner as to promote
*quty  hrosh  1)  p cnl  rogrm T or thaw groups. such as girls and seven-y nr-ld , as
wel1 es (ii tho *trengthentg9 of literacy program (reading and writing) for total and
virtual illiterates
4.          T nsLnbieloccees. Over the past few y  ea, the Governmnt hbo  Implemented several major
reforms and tiakn a number of minsures to ensure that the meagr rsources aval abl, for education have
as large mn impact as possible and that, despite severe resource constraints, the education system wit I
continue to grow. The pressure on budgst resoures has curtailed expenditure on esential
instructional materials, with a resultant decline In Internal efficiency and In the quality of
educatlon, Despite this, the reforn have been suecessful In:
(a)   Restructurtng the way In which education Is adminlstered within a ministry (Minist  of
Notlonal Education - MEN) and a State Secretariat for Pre-University Educat on (SEEPU) and
reorganizing the Directorate of Regional Education;
(b)   Implementing a program for the rationalization and strengthening of higher education;
(c)   Rointroducing French as the language of Instruction In oll schools;
(d)   Making a start on a selective program for the training of teaching staff.
5.          Proposed Reforms (1990-1092). For the period 19W-1992, theo  overnment propoes  to
introduce the Tollowing changs in the present education systm:
Efficiency gains through:
(a)   Restructuring of the MEN units responsible for budget and personnel (DAAF), planning and
monitoring of Investments (DSPE), construction and projects (DCTP), training of teaching
staff, curriecul and pedagogical reserch (IPN, ENI, DET-FP and the CFCs);
(b) Eliminatlon of a number of MEN unite that can be Incorporated Into existing departments,
and *stablishment of a consultative body charged with coordinating teacher training
activities;
(c) Establiedn nt of a primary school model based on current conditions In the countryslde by
developing a flexible system of operations b eid on multigrade classo and double-shift
teaching, with a view to making more efficient use of classrooms and teaching staft;
(d)   Completing the rationaliantion of higher education by Identifying coursn  of study gesred
to the country's development needs, strengthening the provision of Instruction and raising
the qualifications of higher education personnel;
(e)   Ratlonallizng technical education and vocational training by estblishing coures of study
and adjusting both enrollment and course content to labor market requirements. This will
rquir* a reorientation and proper *quipping of the establishments selected for this
purpose;
(f)   Curbe on staff numbers and redeployment of administrative personnel toward teaching
assignments;
(9)   Computerization of the personnel  anegemnt system, with preparation of Job descriptions
for all personnel;
(h) Introduction of new construction standards together with * maintenance program with a view
to reducing capital cost.
Qualitative Improvements designed to:
(a)   Raie current minimum standards for outlays on supplies for schools and school
administration systems;



ANNEX 6
Poge 3 of a
(b)   Smprov  the *hills prof ile  of teaching and administrative staff by Introducing a
comprehensive program of continuing *ducationi
tc)   Continue to rvise the content of primary educOtion;
(d)   Limlt the repeater rote by introducing make-up s*sions tn the echools and lowering age
tliits both for xaminatlone and for enrollment In public schools;
Enhancement of lnstitutional capacitte:
(a)   Examination and  onitoriag  on the occasion of the quarterly meetings betwen the
Government and IDA, of bu                         nder neproprlatlono an outlay. for operations and investmnt,
with study of the yerly distribution of expenditure by level of education and by expene
cat*eory;
(b)   Sncreaos In budgetary appropriations required to meet the new standards for SApenditure on
supplies and utilization of stff;
(c) Inrerased participation by local eoumunities In the maintenance and construction of primary
schools and the Introduction of * matching mechanism for government tax funds and local
contributions;
(d)   Prooting the expansion of preto education by making It easier to obtain soning and
construction permits for private schools, while excluding any financial support for Initial
capital investmnt;
(e)   Revision of the overall orientation of tho *poet-primary' education syetem.
S.          Strengathnino of Planning and Budst   The Government will strengthen the key management
functions wlthin       with training Pn  tecnnical as*stnce for OAAt
and other directorates and unite. In addition, in order to keep the growth of expen8se under control
and ensure that the limited resources available are used In the most cost-ffetetive manner possible  the
Government will employ standardized norms to prepare budgete and monitor expense.  Theo norms will be
used to estblish:
(a)   Staffing loevls for both teaching and non-teching personnel;
(b) Minimum and maximum allocations for equipment and Instructional materials;
(c)   Specifications for the production of school books and othor supplies with a view to
achieving economies of SC';
(d)   Space r"utiremnts per at  at and par classroom; and
(e)   Costs of school construction based on the use of local materials.
7.          1 trust that thes  studies will clarify th  infonmation on the oveorall orientation of our
educational reform. We stell, of course, be delighted to furnish you with any additional infomation
you may require.
I look forward to haertng from you and assure you, Mr. President, of my distinguished
conoideration.
Conakry, October 21, 1989
/ / Edouard BenJamin



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section :s Timetable of Key Events
a.  Project Identification .................. February 1988
b.  Preappraisal mission .................... November 1988
c. Bank Appraisal Mission ....................... May 1989
d.  Negotiations ........................... April/May 1990
e.  Board Presentation ........................... June 1990
f.  Planned Date of Effectiveness ............... July 1990
Section Ils Special Bank Imolement&tion Action
Special attention will be paid to supervision, especially at the time of
start-up of the program. Ongoing supervision will be provided both by the
staff of the Resident Mission and regular supervision missions from head-
quarters. In addition to regular supervision, there will be a formal annual
review of the Action Plan to monitor program performance.
Section III: Soecial Conditions
Actions already taken: The Government hass
(a)  adopted the Statement of Sector Policy as the overall framework for
guiding Government and donors interventions in the sector,
(b)  set-up the inter-ministerial monitoring committee *Comite de Suivi du
PASE", the sector coordinating committee 'ComitI de Pilotage du
PASE*, and the Technical Secretariat with the appropriate mandates.
and the ensured that adequate managerial and budgetary expertise is
available to support the sector coordination committee and the
MENISEEPU directorates,
(c)  consistent with program objectives and priorities, agreed on: (i)
minimum spending norms for teaching materialslprimary pupil
(FG2,800/pupillyear), and operation spendingladministrative staff
(FG210,0001stafflyear); (Li) a level of recurrent educational budget
which permits application of revised spending norms and enrollment
increases; and (iii) increased proportions of the education budget
for primary education (34Z in 1990), and materials and operating
expenditures (162 in 1990).
(d)  developed procedures and an implementation schedule, satisfactory to
the Association, for matching local comunity initiatives with
proceeds of the education budget for primary classroom construction.
(e)  prepared a sector-wide staffing strategy for 1990-93, satisfactory to
the Association, with targets for redeployment, training, recruitment
and improved staff utilization to ensure that 72 of all rural primary
classes shall operate with multi-grade teaching in 1990.
There are no conditions prior to Board Presentation or for Credit
effectiveness.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
The second tranche of the proposed credit would be released upon: satis-
factory overall progresv in implementing the education reform program,
evidence that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program, and satisfactory completion of the
measures below:
(a) actual expenditures under the 1990 education budget have been of at
least FG2,800 for teaching materials per primary pupil, and PG210,000
for operating expenditures per administrative staff, and the
proportion of the 1991 education recurrent budget is at least 341 and
to material and operating expenditures is at least 172;
(b) allocations in the 1991 education budget have been made at a level
sufficient to match locally generated primary classroom construction
funds, consistent with the objective of increased enrollments;
(c) the implementation calendar for primary school construction in 1992
has been updated;
(d) a sector-wide program of staff redeployment, recruitment and
training, and a personnel management strategy to increase from 13? to
20? in 1992 the proportion of rural primary classes operating with
multi-grade teaching has been prepared; and
Ce) entrance requirements for primary teacher trainees to allow the trai-
ning of holders of lower secondary certificates have been revised.
The third tranche of the proposed credit would be released upon
satisfactory overall progress in implementing the education reform program,
evidence that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program, and satisfactory completion of the
measures belows
(a) actual expenditures under the 1991 education budget have been of at
least FG2,800 for teaching materials per primary pupil, and FG210,000
for operating expenditures per administrative staff, actual
expenditures under the 1991 education recurrent budget have been at
least 342 for primary education, and 17? for material and operating
expenditures, and recurrent budget allocations for 1992 have been
increased to 35 for primary education, and 18? for materials and
operating expenditures;
(b) allocations in the 1992 education budget have been made at a level
sufficient to match locally generated primary classroom construction
funds, consistent with the objective of incLeased enrollments;
(c) the implementation calendar for primary school construction in 1993
has been updated;
(d) a sector-wide program of staff redeployment, recruitment and
training, and a personnel management strategy to increase from 20? to
272 in 1993 the proportion of rural primary classes operating with
multi-grade teaching has been prepared; and
(e) a plan to continue the operations of the education sector
coordination committee beyond the period of the Program has been
prepared with a view to consolidating the sector organizational and
managerial improvements.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
Section IV: Prosram Actions
A joint review of past and present expenditures on education will be
conducted annually to ensure that both budgetary allocations and actual
expenditures are consistent with the Program. The review will also examine
the past and present level of funding provided to the sector by Government
from its own resources, and will establish specific targets for the next
fiscal year such that the expenditure levels and the financing plan for the
coming year are agreed with IDA. In addition to the above budgetary and
expenditure information, the joint review will examine the implementation
of multi-grade and double-shift teaching, and the work program and
quantitative targets relating to:
(i)   the primary classroom rehabilitation and construction program;
(ii) staff redeployment and recruitment, and
(iii) the specific teacher in-service training program.
Ternt Unit Non-Salary ExPDdtures
1988         1990-1998      2000
Materials. Cowds A Srvices    Xn"al        T-ej           s-argoet
(In U.5 constant I9BM)
Primary                         0.2          4.1            4.1
SscondariY,c                    90.6         15.2          15.6
790.0        96.0          07.
T eshsr Ed.                   122.0         168.0        16.0
UnlvsrsIty                    4806.         4ao.0         487.0
Ad.in.Csntral                 288.0         807.9         812.0
Admin.ReglonalO               142.0         807.0         812.0
(to current FP)
Primary                         68       2899 to  sew     sGM
Secondary                      200    I-ONO to 14990    iin
Tochn cal/Voc.                 2800    60969 to 800100    95999
Teacher Ed.                    4909    1969900 to 140999    199999
University                    16S99   859999 to 499999   5899
Admin.ContralO                 659    219699 to 2999 99   ee
Admin.Reglon,l                 47999   2100  to 290000  8s
*:per stff, not student
Proected Prlmn r School Pattern of
uoublo-shnts and nulti-soads U.issse
1959  1999  1999  1991  1m    1998  2999
Conakry: Double-shift    =   -71   113  -IM  -'1    -21    -DS
Multi-grads      as    ex    ex    0x    as    ex    eX
Regular         971   98x   s9X   85X   61X   77x   59x
Other towns: Doublo-shift 10X   18X   17X   291   28X   27X   59X
Multi-grads      91    ex    eX    ox    ex    as    ex
Regular         90x   877   681   69    771   78X   50X
Rural *reas: Doubl_-shift  OX    ex    ex    ex    ex    aS    eX
Multi-rads,      lX    7X   18X   291   27X   8as   40X
Regular        1991   98X   97       81x 771   071   6ox
Projecteod Staffing Ratios
1969  199  1999  1991  19M   1998  200
Primay P/T ratio       89.0  40.2  41.7  41.9  41.8  41.9  42.0
Secondary P/T ratio    18.5  16.7  19.8  19.9  20.4  21.9  25.9
Technical /Voc. P/T ratio  8.9   9.2   9.5   9.8  109   19.8  12.0
Teacher Ed. P/T ratio   6.1   5.6   8.9   8.2   9.6  10.0  20.0
University P/T ratio    6.9   6.9   0.6   7.1   7.7   8.2  12.0



*~~~U  *h-e                       *.- s
dl  ,s li                                              U j 1



waLC u gmi
SRMIS                              . IdE. IAIJl V-FEE                        KILlS lb K  11"S  SF011                    #I IONS 1uff IrASO SEF3  2md                   KCIllS to K  late  WO F31  r
stidtIg1130  lawch  %UEFEClIIvEMS ohmm  ie                                                 IBMEO  ILimu  lotol II.                       tRWA( SLIE 111ad -21
2.2 Isleprovis Oeisur Mleciati Aa osg ibetros
hdgetpropatsom                 kwo e.&ha ken corlado. Btutort  se 44           eseith IRA Sthe low kouoo                  c dlkUto IDA      bEOm UtmlmtTit             Chilm to1 O' DM  Gm Wtlmhis
t.A  ,, is abIt lishoa061161111 budgeary    dppcacotbm  at tled aft was M  a priormit   lbLvtiliA ItAig AcT55 EmlfBIu&S SlaVE          edvIlabi V91*1 e LilmLEt. x  ItIlS  NEl
eui  .16V* of seopet  lamo bogwe 6           arga of atpeuaare porotectam.    UW  OS    fAtUS tIE MUDI MAWIE, mi A1MU               I 0   AU Illf KOE  TIE UD PAIIeSS, AS AM  ON to
ft,...  sv4*   amptakltt                     TNE slam. NMIth MI*zhO Is lit MISS! AS  DWI EOCueAltsm   MAIff  FOR INE FOLLOWm            mnF ESKATIAS 5            FM  lI  FOkLEtS
aetist ataPli. SIeasc   lat Systalt fath IDA  TIE IiStEiiWtI  or frITUSIIIE11 It lEL JW via9   (NoomI AlIACISmi.. sPIifIl taSSElS  VW*  1915 is AlticmI*5. SPEific 15611
6 t  b . G.sp.                              IVi f incarom  AO et UIMIK   wAimtV AS   H IK: tii' ISiCol   FIESilaws; jtU                INLtOSE: 4iatioi M MIEMAotS;t"  tu
SISS AIN  Ka1lI. SPEIFIC lANCES           CcI 309s is lIMES! CUllS fE                   CSIMiES MS TOSIPI COSTS FOR
-                                   ME~~~~~~~~~~~~lISa oil MausI *IElks; till     ASitilhlhllS; k aa111110IFRM   to iff  tea.  tuioiylhS1M iE  & usiai $MT 10 OPEN tI.
CIII&L3 IS TIMI I MT$1 FOR5. .me* budge pr*tKim  prioWitY tODW! INd am                         t eame  Magevlop theo $Vstmt ug Cuts.. to
MSINISTRATION, II (asia 551310 MIs.  tel dat order gorfail the Wem  cats Wa repttredi  oappal It thorom tee budgt formipratims
Subt Eeplessltsu of the ceepeto  bau         *ill he OM     Wd i ipoetPedppalC ipotig Mg  Pi6W5. Sad. gam fl'tOf treaoMe  Off
hedettpu" ttur* stystem far the 1119*        mss"a  eaatag tugds.. one th  ae" systee  epecalag traimsie to 41ionccshl ujeegeon.
oeta.m bgot.                                for peorewtam of toe 111 budge.
Eapesdtistror Cutrola         Useatite ejbmmoatwe-eosetarsag tOn  ud leadr    srTEcesyste  far comstreltiag ceemolots, Lus  peneme  cyst. to  speWAituire cutrof   tatoou to qppy tie  aIpI astere intitar
ad revisa eowAccata   prKcedee.  lotroduce   epstas ad emator motll pWsmeel custs.    yst. to the uctar.  trsgtf bes smatarse
Gmthy ftmepatwoe cealtap do seam             hme all aetusoms toStatiote  aed              tdiouqn denbiM  reportseg.
regvedaspdatreeasleammse   eteiels.  repoma  ad5a*sWtEatoe  of their eapemature
lawutnel PrgrasigaSo       s        tart    does:, gin prewaatios of the    Eupletts the caqetarmnd project etibse.   oeater both tutoore sevetmat 6 project           beatOr iota surtu   9*Sewsiut Is proect
caapseraud Istabeog of egfctsauso             MMSE   S 531OF          1NM PIP, 516U5  AS   oiepeuatatkos oath the prowet datatas.        aeplaoentatials mitt the projet detains.
;soamds.                                      amU  SIIIII INb MIl  SAI oul YEAS'S tit  DCOS I Ad          E WI*TtO IDA 6 lot 0MIS NWI   DISCUS Mu 5511 atlt ii '*  tlI KmA  amA
Eel.  letreduc  rawurrt cost emeysis mmu   U 111*1  OF KAI El  S PiP iso.                  AN **If I* LotI 01*5  Pit' il..
as reuias ammWs e sr~th ALLi
2.3 beaisdim tiddit osotsaorcss (rto
Loal cimtesa                  aet op a morkaeg yraw  to prepWe eatchu       Arfameo cadation for local a.usataase,        bemttor the us of matchimg Suds.             Noontor te ane mat  tceuq Suds.
kWug emuam 4or pwsauy ucha  suapport.    Kchool, camitite  Mg pivate school tll
Prepare, stataset an prnksot  ad roleo of    hov  KCcos to eatchie  Suds.
Private At ietshg              issue a circular a role of privatt           valortake studoy as m  of a lailted systee, of Olocos mitt IN prapoal Ow Iheated           beanve 4a, reeoasql edeasstrelivef hrriersa
fodecatim. tUV-Mt a strategy to facilitate  recgr.t "apoogntore seoppt far private         opertiog sehuaduesmats crtatora tor          to crtoata   ed Opertiao as private
wee.s to9M low  bmuildiog pwrait.            ekdcausa  istablamdasts.                      regastratame Om  cortaiclacetiof  private    uchaolog.
3. itmCIdI. tosE II ESKAIIMI
3.1 Inceas pariwr agccos            slurt to develop fampo at upeataup sytom    Promot a"m ruirAl pson schol K    MgIW  sasalae  Lostion to oMetor prWills 00 frurl prieor  COotime to asotco proges -  raral prw,s
isdus"   slta-grouade   Notue skit           abatllitratiVe ItfKtract  ausm  utt-groav    schoo pogra. hevise aapleastataoo after   "awlt pogreo. k"mtti  ipleuatoats afte"
class".  hucuse Nith toSa  low farsip a    knetabig ts roral schools. Istroduc             qrsoot aint  ISA. beater the eorotlloot   agreemt Ottoa Iti.. fioitor the ocoolast
reuiud tisetile Oar rural schoos of           wsrout targets Oar girls.  WEiE FAICAilS  tugets ot girls.  WME atASIE htaiElbe           targets, os liria. Agwe mtt IW ad Deow
prejpmoi relevut adematstrative amstrKctau. FINl  CIMI1SN Fs. oCAL FEdIS.  Mt5             FUISIM   Fl M' bCIlES tiCiLV GELAISO         braoup on a". adeoattretame seau     to
frespare mA aisco"s uath ISO lo kew 6rep as AMEAIE 50T11159         61 FIVS OSSP  mdtCul   thilItSia ICom  DEE9LOPItit fewtll ..        lacreatse qarto eoroiuot and OQasco  Sagmse
aslsaaspian tar the primar  school    LOlCkLLV t   U 5153116 P5 094SCIII KWEU   I                                                teataiers. NOSE 5650111 lUGIfiv FthIvSIOUS
coostrKcticO 4Mg r`40atalsatiso PrWpMuotee    PollS tea. PreWar a oCoo.ea  showing                                                      TOf IAI&NuM LOtlt jK5*hEI PlIIIS SCOAsa
2.1II 2.21 & 2.31.                           uses mith the lmest jprisary morllsoo                                                      OEE fElut 11    to).
raktios. 515011 MO AM15  SlIT  I1* h I
no l IELNNI1*1lb PLAi 01slook OE
PlIMimis 511115 PLL 1101Floiw SOO
... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .   ... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ..  .. .. .. .. .. ... ..  . .. .. ... .. ..   . .. ..



ofek: tU III
It a Catts  fr truths roleasel                                                          arAt'U  swe    NU K calt                                                                                                     Put Z
dtrMno            tOrrK     PhrWiltt I                            mail af  tTIM  .0  l; 10    VW   ts MlUNNOn   WAIECall                                  Yt                                                          w  6 of  t.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^M1;.haeaa.  ore PErIEIfo CIIIstO  lt   if.ac  t Cl* p'p Y t4u Wf Jr
IIIIIIIIIES                        "TWA  loo    Kew                            e'TSCt ls  if UT1 TKCE1 i Kflilt I                     SE t  iltS   ME(d .iTflS to itEists ShUt 3rd
"TimmIO     (March                            OEFCIMX66I tlwoo *hoo                         tIiCa  BELtEM  la0 tIn                        lk".t  stA.i tui 1921
3.2 Sttoalite   tfthery F.
Eaterel losh                   Dbcass Nbth  ik  IattUil  trotte  for            KetU  wNth WIA the Sister pIAR Our pet'    loloiWt the Poist-prsear' ester plIn.           ras% the rpsmlatl   tr the r*edd CtP
rtotstori  *est- U    Odcts" mi   priel re-strsctwisg ad thb  stretelatoii    Limo   aO-eawati0l Wf s 6 fplot, stat5*.   Ft0tw  to reviM    stfttu@.  Fls for a
gat studies now at ish.ls  a     ster         04 li st bht_e  Ph a  nedFs,, Private    hpret & dlIKS  atn 1h il PObli reOPs  Joists Ao1t PMAl  lOKlOrAft. dVser, OWi es
Pln' for pta-priw  adocatbo.                  iusit#p for temichc    ee Usti*$ M         srO. it the   ialotra6tive renosiilaty for th    Vocastoso4l   4 tOeo,fi aU trateita.
t ktise qielttetive sprovesmat Mi             Cbts" the  ssolietIA 0f WIhr  to.              Prof. & n t. shoZols. (btoo   tle coosi as   cootasue the toolmdetioe of llhr EL
rataoaetlaaties of highor eatattioo Ilth                                                     aiosl of   Slh o 6ioAlas.
retdcta  in _mie  O fa sclm I p* rwe,
Cws  cM liattM I OeleKtalstv, M SI_
woJllets.
decatil cutstl                 Btsgte  the prawp uiste  po    0i0  Cstiew  cerrieue reer, via toer                         Cotiau  currac.ls rMfoe, via teehe             Caption cerricsles refer .
provide   tr   lacw a  fdaeks sktalls          o-Gs"ce trebell.                              i"write tr4iot4,.
rouieg  uft ie  adl celcslauhi.
3   1op    wterl etficasmc  floe  mlth
lrosud istteel tiem   Ctrt dstepo  sho    tetahn.                            Cel te st     a cwret chOl dad                  k1im ll thet cos C*le1,1r 6 tIlteb11  to       vSm outh IN previsos nwnt esoraec
srhl  pw,   iwus mth IN propuloaL to   reduce the clesro   brWess  ht macrte                  andust chol U     el$Cle ~ eccrialg.
sacWe , intnugtise  tie.                      th ee. of Weis as provide fftihllity to
scoo calsue  to suit local resltiom.
rtam     trtilsm               1u  Wo  & stmari)                              iscres aval at lN tlijt o d w.,, b stortels    Cutoes  to Wio t the was svr uet eail         Isotai  suppie  at ae  le1s.
t   _  t4e  plscatbo of t4 revise  wnO   esges                .
IVo  peiecl lpets.
uu  retasties                  Prepere, Od itcKO  Nath IS  m                 NL! LI lA"           I   ImIm   EPIIII    IN  #plp  lsts a rtopeitaoo, stlrt to aily    Costa... to plY Iti ts se both W i
admmastrative rflso goers   It                PUit EWaIIS lea, PIsilscz  'p  *lists    'p  lists o  leveiataVpe ocbog ao                   repetioo a all $leves.
rawitioeof ay orab, ad (tit a"  lists   Jrr Io_lt is pelikle sbtatietu, of    tIver_st Jede  estialahsts.  pplY a"
4or trp to ea    hy ptic casiiat.             W   Iheits far mSe  Of pAhAIIa  faded          costrots OR the eons AP of piblacallt
o" -ps.                                       howe     rn oves     chlholt oUders.
4. tMM  EASU
4.1  lwgttueo   rwasel Smo        tt  Apt we stsfhfag ow    ad prWate,             CoWletl Sit Am   rowatg 4 d   sectr             bEL Sit      ISA   OM N     Em t S U  hE     ltAL  iu L ltu mi fC OF Sllff  tE IEI I
stwrt fell cam  of the ueter staff,,           w erse.  bisforce satun of  iW fC.1054E   FM                   8 M   SlaFF  1KPLOlit,    IBEtIFw btIFIUB6 FhlA As SWF O glE EIS
prper., gomtriaed peroomeel    _pmt          rsspeuble fo  Wsomol soua          t.  ABt    StL*IlIEl        t 11*11I5I6 051. Cogplet, tte   AO _Atsilt Oll  11M  ts.
syots. Start the tcopstlerdatoof tit          1111iF  IlA (   CIoASIS( SIFFIiB kma II   elic uaeto  of om-pororsog or a50t
Wreml rAc1rd1.                                Vitt IE  NUIFIC lBEIS Fill Kllf -    staft.
EM       E a.lIiSlNll    Of MIUIU  FILES tot
IrKrutMt, traismag  staff r#tireOt, Mi
redeployeat1. Reduce eas-teachalg stalf
throl  redeploaeset to teechieg.
4.2  rSgtets Teehr Ira9tt4o          Creetto usrkbg roe as acoristtza had          lopiesst the reisd ttsttrt for teeter    Sscsns sitl Ill  A st ha"ta  strtuctre liY
catrol Of etataual rnerC, pre-W%rlO   traato,, cupieto tao copheidat,oo   s sell  aeopest, courdaettion da costrol .t all
& s-svitc tether trasig, cr,racaslu           mitt bmr  the Co rCtOratAf.  Se-evasi   tethW  tromasa    0 pe@ i"ical   ens.
seopet no relorL.                             the rele of the IfS.
las-.rvice Iraisop             Fropr, proae of sb-service teehe              Btert thw la-srace tehber trailg          S    Iss1  reelatmoos  veratio  rcrostatt leel   Mtso the  a-src  traer traisnit
traisio  relate  to too W*e o peqscaa         srora.  S3IAtU  Mi EVIS  B ilida lul              oatmos olitd      s W Ir prtiasr  4ther    proria.
eterials am tothie tiut  slIm-rads            USmflit  tI  LEK h Al dIlta ISAIlil lEfe S  traissag, sodacatoaq that OitsiQns can tdi
sChools.                                     XChft s  I NF1    ISAIhIE ftfi6h         tes.   pl et oy cospitats  e aft* ttr WtM.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
COST AND FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE REFORMS
A.     Background
1.     Over the period 1980-8, public spending on education has Increased from around OS
(1987) to 183 (1089 estimated) of total Government recurrent expenditure (excluding debt
servic, payments) 1//. This represented the equivalent of 1.4%-1.81 of CDP, comparatively one
of the lowest lovTo of public educational spending In Sub-Saharan Africa. Consequently.
Guinea's education system io, at all levels, literally starved for resources. Personnel and
subsidy/transfer costs account for betwoen 88X and 8S of the MEN recurrent budgt. In
primary education, this proportion rises to 900, leaving a yearly equlvalnt of about USSO.20
per primary pupil to cover material costs. As a rsult, the quality and efficiency of
educational services are detrlorating, and little stride Is be ng mado in expanding acces
to basic education from th e ompratively very low current level of enrollments. At present,
the system can barely cope with the Increase in tho school-age population. With over 70X of
its population Illiterate, Guinea's gross pTrimary enrolment rate Is only 26X, one of the
lowest In tho world; new admiseions In primary first grade currently represent only about
SOX of the 7-years age group.
S.     The Macroeconomic Situation
2.     Resource Availblitand Salaries. Two sets of global factors *re most likely to have
a major impect on tivs klv I*and structure of UEN resources over the next few years:
(a)    The overall budgetary situation will remain very tight. Despite serious efforts on
the part of Governmnt to expand its revenue base, the xpcted declin  In mining
revenues, the need to reduce the fiscal deficit, and te  high proportion of recurrent
expenditure absorbed by interest payments on the public debt (projeted at 18%
throughout 1089-02)  all combine to maintain severe constrats on te  operations
budget. Thus, overail recurrent expenditure (excluding interet payments) is expeeted
to de ine by about ex in real term  throughout 1989-95 pertod
(b)    Ioplemetation of the administrative reform, which *aes at the development of an
efficient and motivated civil service by reducing the number of redundant and
unskilled employees and granting significant salary increase to resmining staffv, I
progresoing rapidly. Salary Increase of eivil servants having successfully undergone
an evaluation test will double the overall average wage, while staff on th public
payroll are being reduced from 90,009 civiIlan employees (1986) to about 51,009 at
end-1989. The combined effect of these two amasures io estimated to have Increased the
Governmet wage bill by SOX over 1906-198.
8.     The projoeted staultaneous reduction In the available overall operations budget and
inerese In personnel expenditure will require drastic cute In Governmnt spending on goods
and services and on transtfors  nd subsidies. The formr are currently projected to d eline by
*bout SS and the latter by more than half In real terms throughout 1989-92.
4.     Imolieations for the Education Sctor. By itself, the salary Increase granted to
quatiflil ea **T  slected to reoman in tU  civil service should have a positive tmpact on
teachers' motivation  hence on the quallty of education. However, It will also exert strong
upward pressure on th  allocation of public resources to the soctor, simply bcause personnel
costs take up a much higher proportion of the MEN budget (78!) than of total Government
recurrent expenditure (435, excluding Interest poaynts). loreover, even with a more
efficient use of teachers, the necessry expansion of the enrolment capacity of the education
syste, particularly at the primary lovel will require a significant continuous ncreas In
teching staff, which contrasts sherply with the  dinistration-wide objective of pruning the
payroll.  Most Importantly, the beneficial effects of higher teacher salaries will not
1/I Prior to the currency exchange of January 1988, date on actual Government expenditure is
either missing In the necessary detail, or highly unrelIable; furthermore, It ti not directly
comparable with later yoers. As a reult, It is virtually Impossible to asses  patterns and
trends In public educational expenditure over a longer period. Available evidence, would seem
to point towards a significant relative dbeline In public spending on education since the
early 1900's (see Annex 1).



Annex 7
Pe  2 of 7
materialne without complementary allocation of r oure c for material cost, both to reduce
current undrponding *nd to *accommodate incresing enrollments. Ag In, thlo fundamental
setor requtrmsnt runn contsrary to the Govrnmsnt-wlde tendsncy  which calls for a
significant reduction in material consumption. There Is thus a Lumlit-in conflict: at the
macroeconosic level, the goal of reducing the f*scal deficit precludes the *llocatton of
aditional resources to the education sector to th. full extent needed;  at the Sam  time,
the tatutory solary increass of the existing MEN staff threatno to turther *rode the ltttle
resourcet available for material consumption, and to lmpose a free  on the hirlng of new
teaching staff.
S.     It Is against this background that the proposed sector adjustment program Is beng
Justified, and Its cost and financial Implications are being assessed (se section C). It
aIme at.
(a)   improving the efflelncy In the us  of available sector resources;
(b)   Improving th  quality and cost-effectivenes  of educational processue;
(c)   Increasing acces  of the school-ago population to basic education, with major emphasis
In rural areas.
Implicit In the adustment program, is the basic objective te avert further deterioration In
the Quality and quantity of public education In Guine, which Is a most likely prospect In
the absence of action.
C.    Ioeat of the Reform Program on Education Expenditure
8.     The cost of operating the education sector, with the reform progrm, to be met by MEN
for the period 1990 to mid 1998 1s shown In Table 1, by educational level and by eateory o
expenditure. The first column, actual expenditures in 1988, reflects the likely
distributional pattern of resource use tn the absence of educational refors and with the
relative level of avallable resourae  maintained at its current level (111 oS Governmet
total recurrent spending). Internal efficineny paramters (student/teacher ratios, retention
and completion rates) are at thetr current pre-reform level. Subsequent columns (1990 to mid
108) estiate the  level of M   resources neded to implemen the proposed sector reform
program including additional quallty- and efficiency-enhancing resource allocatione
incrasing enrolment capacity at the pimary level In order to raiss the overall admission
rate from 8t to UU by the year 208. The final column gives the total recurrent reoures 
needover the ajusnt period 10-id 1993.
7.     Tho lncremental operating cost of the reform progra   honc  resource gape, are, shon
In Tablo 2. The first coumn t transcribed from Table 1 anJ indictes the total operating
exponditure needed during the period 1990-mid 19. The second column is the proJected
avatlability of central government funds for the education sector, basedon p    sector
allocetions. It has been asumed that this level of funding would be avalable from central
wvernmsnt In the absnce of the adjustment operatton (In the absece of both the reform and
it  funding, historical values of lnternal efficiency peramtere --student/teacher ratios,
retnttion and completion rates- and the continuation of limited ral *xpenditures would
constrain the system and both enroll ments and quality would fall). The Incremental operating
cost of the reform program is given In the lost column.
8.     The Incremental recurrent cost of the prOOram I due to thre factor s (a) maintaining
the system with its present lovel primary admision rate while applying the programmed civil
service salary Increase; (b) applying the education reform program with Ito now expenditure
norms for goods and materials, and Its more efficient staff utilization ratios- and (c)
raising the overall primary admission rate to SOX by the yer 200. The first feactor requires
327.5 million In additional rsources, over and above the sectors share of total Government
resources projected on the base of post llocations. Almost SOx of this inerement Is
genersted by personnel costs. The effect of the Second factor, net of effietncy gains,
appears marginal (18 million), but It refloect a fundamental shift In the usc of resources
way from personnel coast, towards material consumption. The efftciency gaons which result
fro the education reform (better staffing ratios) offset som  of the increased cost.
resulting from the now non-salary expenditure norm. Finally  the third factor  -a steady
Increase In the primary admission rate-- requires   further 54 million, a major part of
which for the training of dditional teachers. The total incremental recurrent cost of the
proposed sector aJustment program throughout the period 1990-92 Is In the order of I3N
million; over one third o ths amount would benefit primary education, either directly, or
indir&ctly through compl-mentary teacher training.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
9.     Table a prosente tho investmnt costs assoiated with the education sector. A process
similar to that In Table 2 was used to derive the lnerwmental Investment coat of the
adjustment and the subsequent unfunded gap. Tho primary *xpans on requirents are derived
directly from the enrollment targets Included In the adlu tnt progam. Investment needs for
all other educational levels reult from the Sector Polfy Dl elaration  The Pubie Investmont
Proram provided the necesry Information on proar nsd invetment allocations free the
Budget National de Devolopp _nt' (END) and from aready identifid donor co_mitmnte. The
total incremental investment cost Is US$6 mi llions over e0o of this would be targeted
specifically at primry education expansion In rural areas.
10.    The projected impact of the sector *dJu mnt program on the structure of recurrent
cost ti tillustrated In Table 4. In 2009, choren as the terminal benchmark of a 10-yer
djustment period, the proportion of rources spent on primary education would have ben
raied, from an Initial S4X to 46X. Chang cn the tntrasectorial allocation of reources
would also favor-teacher training and the regionsl administration, which Includes school
Inspection. Through more efficient staff utilizatton, personnel costs would bo reduced to
about 70S of recurrent expenditure, pe rmtttnga substantial incree In the percentage
allocated to material expenditure, from  n  anittal loX to 18X.
1i.    The reform leads to a significant Increase in the proportion of Government recurrent
expenditure absorbed In the education sector (se Table 5). Merely maintaining the primary
admisilon rats, without sector reforms would require this proportion to be raised to about
105 by 1692 and about 17X by 2000. Implmenting the sector reforms nd r ardually raising the
primary admio ion rate to 60$ by 2000, will raise this proportion to about 18S by 1093, this
proportton would subsequently stabilize around 19X by 200W, at the effect  of efficiency
mprovem_nta are gradually btIng felt.
12.    This overall allocation percentage, however, ti a rather poor Indicator of the
allocative Implications of the proposed sector adjustment program. The impending increaein
civil service remuneration rates will significantly raise the *hare of Government recurrnt
expenditure absorbed In the education sector even In the absnce of educational reformns;
thio Increase Is thus the autoentic result of a slobal, rather then sector-specific policy
decision. It ts therefore more maningful to as*ess the allocativo Implications of the
adjustment p ram for specific expenditure categories  as shown In Table 6.  Thus, the
proposed adju    nt program would require MEN's share In the total Government wage bill to
incroase, from 21X In 1N8S, to about 2SX by 192; of this incrose  however, only 1.6
erentage point t- due to the required increeo In the numbr of taching staff. More
fundaental, however, io the Implication that tmpldmenttion of the proram's objectives will
require a drastic increasein r eource allocation for material consumption: from a current
marginal 3$ of total Government expenditure In that category, to a miniam of 7S by 1M.
D.     Unit Recurrent Expenditure
1s.    Table 6 compres the level and structure of unit recurrent coost  before the adjustment
period without sector reforms, at the beginning of the rfeorms and again In 20. At the
primary level without reform, per pupil recurrent cost would Increase by over 50X, entirely
on account of the buiIt-in incrse In personnel costs. Hbowver, with reforms, the overall
unit cost will actually decline as the  ffictency gains from staffing measures compenato for
the Tncrrea   In expenditure on educational mater is. The peronnel component io reduced by
about lX, while the material component Is raised almost twenty-fold, from USSO.20 to USS4.00
rr pupil (Table 7). Under such a scenario, the unit cost per primary graduate could decline,
sea, as  result of the quality and efficiency measures implemented under the adjutment
program, a W X cut could be achieved In the current total of about 16 school-years needed to
produce   graduate. The sctor adjustment program would also contribute to lower post-
primary unit cost levels relative to the primary level.



Annox 7
Page 4 of 7
Tabl- 1
Total Rewurrent Cost., lose and 10W-mid 108
(current l35 millionR)
19i8        199W        199192                   mid         TO" l
1998      19W0-OS
Actual   --------Planned--- ---
A. By sub-sector
Primary               7.98       12.60        18.71       16.18        6.88         49.07
Secondary             6.04        8.80         9.17        9.64        4.94         82.46
Tech./Vocatlonal      1.88        1.90         2.8         2.17         1.16         7.24
Techev Training       0.72        1.82         1.84        2.00         1.0          0.24
UniversitylRtrch.     7.4         9.61        10.28       16.$0         s.66         8.87
Admin. (Central)      0.74        1.01         1.07        1.14        6.60          8.01
Admn. (Reglonul)      1.12        1.68         1.61        2.00         1.10         6.65
Total                25.62       86.76        89.86       42.68       22.67        142.38
B. By cate141y
Personnel            19.90       26.49        28.14       29.92       16.94        10.49
Materials             2.61        6.19         7.02        7.7         4.18         26.17
Subsidioe             8.01        4.10         4.70        5.18        2.76         16.68
Total                26.62       86.76       59.66        42.83       22.87        142.83
Note:  Tote ls my not add due to rounding.
Sourco: Mission calculation.; AFIPH (March 90)
Table 2
Incremental Recurrent Costa ot Adjustment 10W-mid 1998
(current 1158 millions)
(19W-mid 198s)--
Recurrent Costa        RIcurrent           Incremental
with Adjustment         Cost without       Recurrent
tl999-midl9@8)          Adiustm nt         Cotm o
A. By sub-sector
Primary                                 49.67             $8731               12.67
Secondary                               82.45              24.18               8.82
Tech.JVocetional                         7.24               6.58               1.71
Teacher Training                         0.24               8.91               2.8S
University                              86.87              28.11               6.28
Admin.(Central)                          8.61               2.81               1.00
Atin.(Rogional)                          0.56               4.65               1.70
Totel                                  142.38             16.44                5.689
3. By category
Personnel                               100.49             79.67              20.62
materials                               26.17              15.71               9.40
Subeidleo                                1. 68             16                  5.62
Total                                   142.a8            106.44              86.08
as   This indicates tho as*umd Gost of operating the system with no adjustment
reduced enrollmnts, Intakes and qualitative Inputs, and is based on a projection
of poat sector allocations.
Source: Mission calculations; AFiPH (March 90)



Annex 7
Pago 6 of 7
Table 8
Incremental Investment Cost of Adjustment (IM9-mId 1993)
(currint u5R miiions)
1990        1991         1992         Mid          Total
199S      1990-93
P~~~~~lanned            -           --~~~~
A. Requi rements
Primary Expansion                 12.48        13.20        14.86         8.38        48.91
AlI  other l-v-la                  4.16         4.40         4.95         2.80        16.8U
Total                             16.64        17.66        19.86        11.18        66.21
B. Available Fundin
Govt.Investmant Fund               2.18         2.66         2.94         1.23         9.01
Donor comitments                  10.06        12.26        14.19         7.54        44.03
Local communitlos/APEs             1.26         1.18         1.16         6.57         4.15
Total                             13.49        16.08        18.28         9.84        57.19
C. Unfunded Cap
Total                              3.15         1.62         1.58         1.84        8.02
Source: Mission calculations; AFiPH (March 90)
Table 4
ProJ ct   Distribution of Recurrent Costs
155-1993 and 2656 (percenzages)
1988     1989    199       1991    1992    1993    2000
A. By sub-sector
Primary                31.3    32.4    84.0    34.4        36.3    36.4    45.1
Secondary             23.7    23.4    28.9    28.0    22.8          21.6     17.2
Tech./Vocational        6.5      5.4     5.2      5.1       5.1     5.0       4.5
Teacher Training        2.8     3.1       8.6      4.8      4.7     4.7       4.2
University            29.S    28.6    26.1    25.7    25.8    24.8    21.9
Admin. (Central)        2.9      2.8     2.7      2.7      2.1      2.6       2.3
Admin.(Regional)       4.4      4.4      4.4       4.S     4.7      4.8       5.7
Total                100.6   100.0    10S.6   166.0   10.0   100.0  16.0
8. By caegory
Personnel              78.9    77.1    72.0    76.6    69.9    69.7    70.8
Materials              10.2    11.6    16.8    17.6    18.1         18.3     18.1
Subsidies              11.8    11.8    11.1       11.8    12.0    12.0    11.1
Total                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Source: Mission calculations; AFPH  (March 96)
Table 5
Changee  In MEN share of Government Recurren. t Buclwt by
atesory of txpenditure: 1985-1995 *nd
(N)
1988     1989    1990    1991       1992     1993    2000
Education expenditure as S of Govt.Expnd.on:
Wages & Salaries                21X      20X      2SX      25X      26x      26x      31X
Goods A Services                 3X       3X      7X       7X        7X       8X      11X
Subsidies A Transfers            8X       7X      15X      19%      21X      20X      31X
X Govt.Rec.8udgt.Educ.&        10.4X   12.9X   16.1W   16.8X   17.2X   18.2X   19.2X
*:  assumes both historical allocations and external support for the reform program.
Source: Mission calculations; AFIPH (March 90)



Annex 7
Poge 6 of 7
Table 8
Unit Recurrent Ex enditur  1988 1990 1993 and 2000
conzsant iise9)
1988    1990    1993    200
A. Levoel
Primary                   30      as      a3        36
Secondary                117     118      110      103
Technical/Voc.           382     344      310      278
Teachor Ed.             865    1101       850      712
Higher                  1843    1678    1468    1372
S. Ratio (Primary = 1)
Secondary               3.1      3.1      3.0      2.9
Technical/Voc.          10.0     9.0      8.7      7.7
Teacher Ed.            22.5    28.7    23.7    19.8
Higher                 48.0    41.0    40.8    38.2
C. X Decrease (1988-2000)
Secondary              --I- (12% _-__ 
Thchnical/Voc.      _27X)                     __
Teacher Ed.                          ---      ----- ---
Higher              -----  -
Source: Mission calculations; AFIPH (March 90)
Table 7
Unit Non-Personnel Expendlture 198  a1990. 1998 and 2000
(u5 I cons    19vS)
1986    1990    1998    2000
A. Materials, Goods & Service (by level)
Primary                                0.2       4        4       4
Secondary                               0.6     15       1S       1S
Technical/Voc.                          70      80       88       67
Teacher Ed.                            122     168      163      1S5
University                             480     430      430      437
Admin.Contral                          2683    307    380         12
Admin.Reglonsla                        142     307      807      312
8. Subsidies A Transfers (by level)
Primary                                  0       0        0        0
Secondary                                0       0        0        0
Technical/Voc.                          35      27       27       28
Teacher Ed,                            127     408      406      418
UniversityT                            507     406      408      413
Admin.C*ntral                            0       0        0        0
Adwin.Regional                           0       0        0        0
a: per staff not student
b:xcl. foreign scholarships
Soure : Mission calculations; AFlPH (March 90)



Ann-x ?
Pago 7 of 7
Table 8
Prosent and Pro)-cted Enrollments end Misc-lloneous Indicators
(!roary tsiucatuon) 1988-1992a nn 2600
1980    199    1999    1991    1992    1993    20w
A. Enrollment by level1
Primary                       801888  81856s  826532  841888  861288  832458  570750
S=eondary                     7460    7410    74521   74746   74971   75196   78789
Technicel/Voc.                 4560    4460    4630    4866    4970    6140    6380
Teacher Ed.                    1209    1200    12090    1"8       1940    2086    2703
Univorsity                     5981    6020    8110    6202    6295    6389    7091
Total                        887677  399525  412544  429484  449444  471267  672668
S. X Distribution
Primary                        77.7    78.5    79.8    79.6    80.4    81.2    00.2
Secondary                      19.2    18.6    18.1    17.4    16.7    16.6    11.4
Technicol/Voc.                  1.2      1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1     0.9
Toehor Ed.                      0 .      0.8     0.3      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4
University                      1.5      1.5      1.5     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.1
Total                         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.6   100.0   100.6   100.6
C. Miscellaneous Indicators (Primry)
Admtinoon Rate                  30X      SeX      32X     84X    38X        37X     50
Enrol .Ratio                    26x      29X     29X      308      81X      88x     481
Completion Rate                 406   ----------------- 72X
Yrn ?nstr./Crrd.                16.1 -----          ------------------------- 8.2
P/T Ratio                       41.6    41.7   41.7    41.8    41.8    41.8    42.0
Source: Mission calculations; AF1PH (March 90)



12'                            10'                            8
SENEGAL
i t - v    -~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )    0240    so 110z0
-t2'   GUINEA -                                                                                                      12
BISSAU
J<                                dia /GaO                                              M  A  L I
77000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z,0
.2a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
EDUCAiON SECToRoLEONE
At44Nr~~~ct          .      l                U LFe/ Rommutwust<2
G U IN N EA*,u'-
EDUCATION -SECTOR S*HtY     
ARfD'JUJSTMENTW PROGRAM
DU SECTEUR DE 'EDUCLi                                                                       24700
POPULATION DZSTkIBUTION          URBAN CENTERS POPULATION (1990)           LIBERIA
REPARIT/ON DE LA POPULATIAN         POPULATION DES CENTRES URBAINS (1990)
-8   Dens4ity                                 ) 000 Inhabitants
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 o
>         ~~~0-20  InhabItants per Krq2*                Le1..   ttian 620.T                               (WO(
20 -40
I-                                                                                   An'E
i.O  LL~~0  00'1OIE J



