Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R^eport No. 14611
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3271-ME)
JUNE 22, 1995
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distTibution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banl; authorization.



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Currency Equivalent
Currency Units= Nuevos Pesos= 100 cents
Average Exchange Rate
1990                        US$1                        NPMex2 57
1991                        US$1                        NPMex2.85
1992                        US$1                        NPMex3.00
1993                        US$1                        NPMex3 05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)                           =10,000 square meters
Metric Ton (mt)                            =2,200 pounds
Metric Ton (mt)                            =1,000 kg
Kilometer (km)                             =0.6215 miles
Kilometer (km)                             =1,000 meters
Cubic Meter (m3)                           =1,000 liters
Liter                                      =1,000 milliliters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ANOAPA               -      National Association for Water Supply Operation Agencies
Asociaci6n Nacional de Organismos Operadores de Agua Potable
APAZU                -       Program of Water Supply and Sanitation for Urban Areas
-      Programa de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Zonas Urbanas
BANOBRAS             -      National Bank of Public Works and Services
-      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
CETES                -       Government of Mexico Treasury Bills
-      Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Naci6n
CNA                  -      National Water Commission
-      Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
CONAPO               -      National Population Commnittee
-      Comite Nacional de Poblaci6n
COPLADES             -       State Development Planning Committee
-      Comite de Planeaci6n de Desarrollo Estatal
EAS                  -       Water Utilities Association
-     Asociacion de Empresas de Agua
IDB                  -       Inter-American Development Bank
-      Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
IMTA                 -       Mexican Institute of Water Technology
-      Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua
NAFTA                -      North American Free Trade Agreement
-      Tratado de Libre Comercio de Norte America
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



OAs                  -      Operating Agencies
-      Agencias Operadoras
SARH                 -      Ministry of Agnrculture and Water Resources
-      Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SAHOP                -      Ministry of Human Settlementsand Public Works
-     Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
SEAPA                -      State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommittee
-      Subcomite Especial de Agua y Alcantarillado
SEDESOL              -      Ministry of Social Development
-      Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
SHCP                 -      Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
-     Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
SICREF               -      Development Credit System
-      Sistemas de Credito de Fomento
SIAPA                -      General Information System for the Water and Sanitation Sector
-     Sistema General de Informaci6n para Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
SPP                  -      Ministry of Planning and Budgeting
-      Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto
SWA                  -      State Water Agency
-      Agencia Estatal de Agua
SWSS                 -      State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommnittee
-      Subcomite de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
TA                   -      Technical Assistance
-     Asistencia Tecnica
WUs                         Autonomous Water Utilities and Operating Agencies
Agencias Operadoras Aut6nomas de Agua Potable



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 22, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mexico
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
(Loan 3271-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Mexico - Water Supply and Sanitation
Sector project (Loan 3271-ME, approved in FY91) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office (Parts I and 111). Part 11, prepared by the National Bank of Public Works and Services
(BANOBRAS) on behalf of the Borrower, presents a divergent, overly positive view of project experience.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1993, and the full amount of US$300 million was disbursed.
The project supported by the sixth loan in the sector, focused on assisting the Government of Mexico
(GOM) with a major Sector Reorganization Program to be carried out during the 1990-1994 period. The
project was designed to reduce the subsidies to the sector, strengthen the institutional framework at the
national level, promote the autonomy of companies which operate water and sanitation systems at sub-
national levels, serve 3.2 million additional people by the end of 1994 with water supply and sanitation
services, and improve the environment through a pilot water-pollution control program.
Total project costs reached US$1,340 million equivalent, twice the appraisal estimates. The project's
physical achievements were substantial, as 96 percent of the project resources were used for works
construction in some 2,150 sub-projects.  Because disbursement was faster than scheduled the project closed
18 months ahead of target; disbursement was 98 percent completed before Bank staff discovered that many
sub-projects did not meet the agreed selection criteria on rate of return. Progress towards policy and
institutional objectives was achieved at the national level and many states changed their law to grant more
autonomy to local Operating Agencies. Yet little evidence was presented on the quality of their works and
their financial and operational capabilities thus leaving project sustainability in question.
With hindsight, a program of this size and type could have benefitted from disbursement in tranches,
so that implementation in subsequent tranches would proceed only after compliance with subproject
conditionalities had been demonstrated.
The project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory based on the PCR and the stated detailed
objectives. Its institutional development impact is rated as modest. The sustainability of project benefits is
rated as uncertain.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality, and provides an adequate discussion of implementation experience
and project achievements.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ..........................................................                    iv
Evaluation Summary ..........................................................v
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPEC'rwVE
. Project Identity                                   .1
2. Background .1
Economic Overview .1
Sector Overview                             .2
Sector Organization and Legal Aspects                 .3
Sector Strategy                            .4
Bank lending to the Sector                      .4
3.  Project Objectives and Descrption                         .5
4.  Project Preparation, Design and Appraisal                    .7
5.  Project Cost and Financing .11
6. Project Implementation .12
Contracting Staff and Consultants .12
Preparation Guidelines for Feasibility Studies .12
Government Counterpart Funding .12
Project Cost .13
Procurement .14
Disbursement .14
7. Project Results .14
Physical Results .15
Sub-projects .15
Studies .16
Training .16
Institutional Results .17
Audit Compliance .18



ii
8.    Project Sustainability ......................................                                                                                 18
9.    Bank Performance ......................................                                                                                       18
10.   Borrower Performance ......................................                                                                                  21
11.   Project Relationship ......................................                                                                                   23
12.   Consultant Services ......................................                                                                                   23
13.   Project Documentation and Data ......................................                                                                         23
14.   Lessons Learned ......................................                                                                                        24
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..  27-51
PART IH STATISTICAL INFORMATION
ANNEXES
1.    Related Bank Loans ......................................                                                                                    55
2.    Project Timetable ......................................                                                                                      56
3.         Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ......................................                                                     57
4.         Project Cost and Financing .......................................                                                                       58
(a) Project Cost and Financing ......................................                                                       58
(b) Project Financing ......................................                                                                59
(c) Loan Allocation by Category ......................................                                                      60
5.    Procurement ......................................                                                                                           61
(a) Procurement of the Project .......................................                                                      61
(b) Procurement of the Loan .......................................                                                         62
6.    Status of Covenants ......................................                                                                                    63
7.    Use of Bank Resources ......................................                                                                                 64
(a) Staff Inputs ......................................                                                                      64
(b Mission Data ......................................                                                                      64
8.    Project Results ......................................                                                                                       65
(a) Total of Sub-Projects ......................................                                                            65
(b) Studies ......................................                                                                          66
(c) Training Activities ......................................                                                              67
(d) Cost of Training Activities ......................................                                                      68
(e) Total Sector Investment .......................................                                                         69
(f) Total Sector Investment by  Source of Funds .......................................                                     70



i.i
(g) Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage .................................... 71
(h) Water Supply and Sanitation Connections ..............                              ...................... 72
9.    Performance Indexes ....................................                                                                         73
10.   Poverty Index .................................... 74
11.   CNATotal Staff 1989-1993 ....................................                                                                   75
12.   Total Operating Agencies (QAs) ....................................                                                             76
CHARTS
1. BANOBRAS .77
2. CNA .                                                                                                                               78






iv
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply and Sanitation Project,
financed under Loan 3271-ME for the amount of US$300 million to the National Bank for Public
Works and Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, BANOBRAS) with the guarantee
of the United Mexican States. The loan was approved on November 29, 1990 and signed on January
18, 1991. The Bank declared its effectiveness on June 18, 1991. The loan was closed on December
31, 1993, approximately two years ahead of the appraisal estimate. The last disbursement was on
March 1, 1994.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the World Bank and the Government of Mexico between
November, 1993 and November, 1994. The Environment and Urban Development Division, Country
Department II, of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office prepared the Preface, the
Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and Im. The Borrower prepared Part 11 of the report after reviewing
Parts I and II.
The report is based principally on the following sources: data obtained during a mission to
Mexico in November 1993; the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; Project
Supervision Reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; interviews with Bank staff
and Mexican Govermment officials; and internal Bank memoranda.






v
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    Loan 3271-ME was the sixth loan to support the development of the water supply and
sanitation sector in Mexico and to finance a high priority part of the Mexico's National Water Supply
and Sanitation Investment Plan 1990-1993. The project was designed to improve the quality and
quantity of water supply and sanitation services, promote sound pricing policy and improve
environmental conditions in the country. Specific objectives were to: (a) reduce the amount of
subsidies to the sector; (b) strengthen the institutional framework at the national level; (c) promote at
state, regional and/or municipal levels the development of companies of sufficient scale to operate
economically and maintain their water and sanitation systems efficiently and with financial autonomy;
(d) provide by the end of 1994 water supply and sanitation services in Mexico to about 24 million
additional people, most of whom belong to the poorer segment of the population; and (e) improve the
environment by implementing a pilot water-pollution control program and requiring a comprehensive
environmental assessment of each financed sub-project (para. 3. 01).
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was approved by the Board on November 29, 1990. The Loan was signed on
January 18, 1991, but legal opinions on behalf of the Borrower were provided to the Bank with some
delay, and thus the loan finally became effective on June 18, 1991. Although the project was originally
scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1995, it was actually implemented in only three years, two
years ahead of the appraisal estimate, and was closed on December 31, 1993 (paras. 6 01-6 02). The
speed of implementation was due to higher demand for investments than had been expected, with a
final total of 2,122 sub-projects financed (more than had been anticipated in the SAR).
3.    The project began with some minor delays during the first year of implementation, because
contracting staff in the executing agencies and CNA was slower than expected. BANOBRAS and
CNA also experienced some similar lags in beginning their institutional development programs.



vi
Additional delays occurred in updating the guidelines for the preparation of the feasibility studies and in
acquiring the required hardware for the implementation of the General Information System for the
Water and Sanitation Sector (SIAPA). The Government was slow in providing counterpart funding for
the project in a timely manner, which made BANOBRAS the sole source of financing for the operating
agencies (OAs) and caused delays. This situation improved over the course of the project, as
counterpart funds became available (paa 6. 03).
4.    By early 1993, project implementation had progressed faster than forecast in the original
implementation schedule. The speed of disbursements, however, masked some serious problems.
BANOBRAS could not supply the Bank with information necessary to monitor compliance with
covenants in the Loan Agreement relating to specific sub-projects. The Bank could therefore
determine neither whether each sub-project was following the agreed implementation plan, nor
whether it had earned the agreed minimum rate of return (Section 4.02 (c) (iii) of the Loan
Agreement). It became apparent that many sub-projects were out of compliance. By the time it
discovered this situation 98% of the funds had been disbursed, and the Bank could not realistically
stop project implementation. The Bank did, however, call the situation to the attention of the
Mexican officials, at which point matters began to improve (pacra. 6.05). Inadequate coordination
and rivalries between BANOBRAS and CNA in the earlier stages of the project also affected the
project's implementation (paras. 6.01-6.03).
5.    Procurement caused some delays, especially in the preparation of bid documentation. Both
suppliers and contractors were concemed about lack of confidentiality in the bidding process. Both the
Govemment of Mexico and the Bank agreed that this is an area where the agencies need much
improvement. BANOBRAS prepared and sent a circular with precise instructions to all executing
agencies handling procurement, which improved confidentiality conditions. Mexican staff considered
the Bank's documentation requirements to be excessively burdensome (para. 6.06).
Results
6.    The project was very successful in expanding and improNing the quantity and quality of water
supply and sanitation services. A total of about 4.5 million people received water and/or sanitation
services compared to 3.2 million estimated at appraisal. A total cif 2,171 sub-projects (para 7.03) led
to the construction of 43,342 water supply and 32,077 sewerage connections and supporting
infrastructure. Final designs were completed for 147 cities under the PoLution Control Program and
simultaneously the operating water treatment capacity was increased from 15m3/sec to 23m3/sec., and
the inventory of 478 water treatment plants was completed (pa-a. 7.02). Total project cost reached
US$1,340.0 million, more than twice the original appraisal estimale. Ninety six percent of this financed
investments (para 7.03). Of the total, US$319.0 million (23.8%) was financed by the Bank (including



vii
US$19.0 million from loan 2666-ME); US$544.7 million by the Federal Government; US$316.0
million by the State Governments; US$33.4 million by the Operating Agencies' cash generation; and
US$126.9 million byBANOBRAS.
7.    The project only partially achieved its objectives of supporting decentralization in the water
supply and sanitation sector. Although the Government fundamentally changed its policy from one of
centralized decision-making to one of promoting local ownership and operation, the project only
partially achieved its objective of creating technically strong beneficiaries. Water losses (average 45%)
are still high, despite several studies on ways to improve operations. Some of the works inanced were
not the best solutions to local problems. This was largely because beneficiaries participated to a very
limited degree in sub-project design and decision-making, and therefore did not develop a real sense of
sub-project ownership. Powerful institutions such CNA and SEDESOL hindered full beneficiary
participation by promoting certain types of sub-projects and even authorizing sub-projects that were
not in compliance with the eligibility criteria and on-lending conditions. Insufficient Bank supervision
and absence of field visits caused this lack of consultation to go undiscovered and allowed
inappropriate projects to go ahead.
8.    The project training results were satisfactory both in terms of quality and quantity. A total of
5,041 of the operating personnel received training during the three years of project implementation.
The original target for the training of about 10,000 operating personnel of 300 state and local operating
agencies had been estimated based on a six-year period of project implementation (Annex 8.C). The
training component has been satisfactorily implemented by the water training institute, IMMA, under
the guidance of CNA and in cooperation with the Association of Water Utilities (EAS). IMTA and
CNA have designed a National Training Program, which will be implemented in 1994-1997. Sector
training workshops were organized and materials were designed (pwa 7.06). 1MTA has periodically
revised and evaluated all of the materials. More than 200 courses and seminars were conducted in the
areas of (i) administration; (ii) commercial activities; (iii) pollution control; and (iv) unaccounted-for
water. Additionally, there were several technical exchanges among water utilities (WUs) and foreign
water utilities. Project experience shows that training is most successful when continuity is assured. In
order to be consistent with the government's decentralization objectives, training should focus on staff
of the WUs, and on CNA staff at the state and regional levels, wvho provide technical support to the
WUs. Annex 8C shows the distnbution by agency and by type of seminars and workshop of
participation in training courses (Dora 7.06).
9.    Institutional achievements ranged from modest to disappointing  aras. 7.08 ad 7.09).
Achievements of the studies, seminars and workshops were also modest.  The objectives of
strengthening the institutional framework at the national level (developing CNA's capacity to provide
technical support, strengthening BANOBRAS and reinforcing its project preparation capacity) were
only partially achieved. The project also had very limited success strengthening CNA's capacity to



vii
prepare projects based on least-cost principles. The situation improved toward the end of project
implementation, based on Bank recommendations. However, inuch remains to be done to extend
least-cost principles throughout the sector.
10.   Certain project initiatives were successful. The project instituted unified financing mechanisms
for all sub-borrowers, which improved efficiency of all investments financed by BANOBRAS.
Integrated water and sanitation projects, supported by the project, were instrumental in the sector,
particularly as a means of combating surface and ground water pollution from domestic waste water.
During the course of the project a large number of states improved their laws, which will help the
performance and management of Operating Agencies (OAs) in the future. The principal changes are
related to: (a) easier tariff approval methods--tariffs will now be approved by the Municipal Councils,
thus avoiding delays and political interference from State Congresses; (b) legal rights of the OAs to cut
service due to lack of payment; and (c) more autonomy in setting investment priorities.
Sustainability
11.   Physical facilities and equipment that have been incorporated under the project are still
functioning properly, and there is no evidence that they will not be sustainable during their full useful
life. The agencies gained experience over the course of the project that helped to rationalize
investments, promote water conservation and improve water quality.  The limited institutional
organizational changes and the reduction of the sector's dependence on the Government are both
sustainable, but have not tackled the roots of the problems. The Government has taken a more
effective role in the management of the water resources and accumulated much more information. The
project increased awareness on the part of all sector officials of the need for institutional improvements,
least cost solutions, and better information management systems, and so formed a strong basis for the
follow-on Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project. In the long run, the situation is
exected to improve further, once the sector decentralization process that is currently underway
achieves its fUlll effect.
Lessons Learned
12.   The following lessons emerge from the implementation of the project:
(a)    The project could have benefited from  increased beneficiary participation and
ownership.  Sub-projects would have been better adapted to local needs had
beneficiaries been involved in their design. Financing and revenue collection would
have been more efficient had the beneficiawy been the primary organizer and investor in
the project. The lack of beneficiary involvement in the project reflects the situation at
the time of project design, when decision-making was almost exclusively concentrated
at the Federal level. During the course of project implementation, however, the Bank



Lx
did not make sufficient efforts to insist on the participation of beneficiaries in project
development. This lesson fits with the Bank's worldwide experience, and should
incorporated in the design of all future projects (paras. 4.05, 4.07. 6.02404 and
7.01).
(b)   BANOBRAS did not monitor or supervise the project adequately. It did not have a
properly-designed Management Information System nor did it devote adequate
resources to supervision. It therefore approved ineligible sub-projects, agreed to
physically and financially unfeasible implementation plans, and continued to fund sub-
projects that were not meeting agreed physical targets and not complying with financial
and other sub-loan covenants. BANOBRAS's progress reports were inadequate both
in terms of quality and regularity, and contained no data on the financial analysis of the
operating agencies. BANOBRAS was not able to tell when projects were running
seriously over-budget and therefore had to re-finance several sub-projects after they
had been completed (paras. 6.02-6. 04, 6. 08, 9.05, 10.02 and 10.03).
(c)   Inadequate Bank supervision exacerbated both ol these problems. It should not have
accepted fast disbursements as sufficient indication that the project was moving well.
The Bank should have realized the inadequacy of BANOBRAS's supervision efforts
and stepped up its own supervision. It would then have discovered that sub-projects
were not in compliance with covenants at a stage when it could have taken action, by,
for instance, suspending disbursements. The total lack of financial infornation tended
to force Bank supervision missions into a role of basic fact-finding rather than of
analysis of results.' Had these issues come to light earlier, the Bank could have insisted
on remedial action. Bank supervision did not put sufficient emphasis on beneficiary
participation. Increasing supervision focus on visits to the local level would have
helped involve sub-borrowers, fostered a sense of ownership and forced BANOBRAS
and CNA to address the issue in more detail. Projects with a large number of sub-
projects typically require more intensive supervision and greater emphasis on field
visits, especially when they involve politically sensitive changes, as in this case. The
Bank should have acted upon this knowledge.
(d)    The Bank needs to track performance much more closely during project
implementation to ensure that the Borrower complies with all project covenants. In
this case, the Bank did not discover lack of compliance until 98% of project funds had
been disbursed. The Bank should enforce compliance with covenants and must be able
and willing to suspend disbursements in the case of major institutional problems.
(paWas. 10.03 and 9.02).
'.Bank Experience in Project Supervision. Repon No. 10606, Apil 30, 1992. OED.



x
(e)    The objectives of the institutional reforms designed to increase financial autonomy at
the municipal and regional levels were too broad and insufficiently defined.
Municipalities, OAs, and WUs usually require a well-defined and carefully phased set
of objectives, so that they can properly organize their activities, monitor project
performance and make the necessary changes in the case of shortfalls. Continued
reform of sector policies and institutions is a complex undertaking, subject to changes
in the political climate, and one that the Bank should not expect to complete in the
duration of just one project.
(f)    The inability of the Bank to finance the private sector directly in this project without a
Govemment guarantee precluded private sector investment in sub-projects, despite
strong interest. Given the potential efficiency and financial gains that the private sector
can bring about, its participation should be encouraged to the maximum extent.
Service contracts or management concessions are most suitable for current conditions
in Mexico and the project should have done more to encourage arrangements of this
type (paras. 7. 03 and 9.01).
(g)    Project design should pay particular consideration to the definition of specific
institutional arrangements. One agency should have primary responsibility, and this
should be clear to all agencies involved, in order to avoid rivalries (para.. 6. 05). In this
project, institutional rivalries and lack of coordination between BANOBRAS and CNA
during project implementation resulted in frequent discussions to determine their
respective responsibilities for implementing the project, and caused delays and neglect
of many important activities (para. JO.05).



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THUE BANK PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:              Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
LoanNo.:                   3271-ME
Amount:                    US$300 million equivalent
Year of Approval:          1990
Borrower:                  BANOBRAS
RVP Unit:                  LA2IE
Country:                   Mexico
Sector:                    Infrastructure
Subsector:                 Water Supply and Sanitation
2.           Background.
2.01         Economic Overview.  Mexico's economy has been characterized by unusual
turbulence over the past two decades. Until 1970, the economy grew rather rapidly on a sustained
basis, but then it began to slow, with major recessions in 1976 and 1982. After the economic crisis of
1982, the Government gradually instituted an ambitious economic stabilization and restructuring
program, which has brought inflation under control and laid a sound foundation for future growth.
Economic growth resumed in the late 1980s, albeit of at a slow rate. In 1983, the constitution was
amended to make municipalities responsible for infrastructure services, and thus rieduced their previous
almost complete dependence on Federal Government funding. Implementation of this policy has been
slow, and subsidies remain high, although they are now based on more rational and transparent
eligibility criteria.
2.02         The Government's direct role in the economy has been reduced through sweeping
public sector restructuring and a privatization program, which have generated proceeds in excess of



2
US$21 billion and led to a major streamlining of government institutions. Inflation has dropped sharply
to 6.5% in 1993, down from an average of 90% per annum during 1982-88. Inflation for 1994 is
expected to be around 9%. Through a combination of expenditure cuts and increases in revenues, the
overall fiscal balance went from a deficit of 15.6% of GDP in 1982, to a surplus of about 1% of GDP
in 1992, excluding proceeds from privatization. Finally, the implementation of the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will further strengthen the foundations of the transformation of the
Mexican economy.
2.03          Sector Overview. Provision of adequate water supply in Mexico is difficult and
expensive. The country's water resources are very unevenly distributed. It has an area of 762,605
square miles and a population of 82.5 million (1990 data), which is growing at 2.6% per year (although
the Government intends to reduce this rate to 1% by the year 2000). Some 75% of the total
population lives in the urban areas, concentrated in just four cities: Mexico, Guadalajara, Monterrey
and Puebla. Some 25% of the total population lives in the Mexico City Metropolitan Area. Average
rainfall ranges from  100mn/year in the dry zones of the North to 5,000mm/year in the tropical
lowlands of the South. About 85% of surface water resources are at an elevation of 500 meters or
below, while fully 75% of the population and 80% of the industrial production are located above that
elevation. These conditions have forced Mexico to develop a sophisticated and costly system of water
resource management, which requires accumulation of increasing knowledge and information. To
integrate this information and knowledge, a National Program for Water and Sewerage (APAZU) was
formulated, taking into account water problems and demand-oriented solutions. Eighty eight percent
of water is used by agriculture, whereas municipal water supply accounts for about 5% of total
demand, and industry only about 6%. Estimated coverage (the percentage of people with access to
water supply or wastewater disposal services) is known only approximately and is rather low compared
with countries at a similar stage of development in LAC.2 Coverage increased annually by more than
the population growth until about 1980. From that point until the end of 1992, coverage more or less
matched population growth, because of budgetary constraints and insufficient attention to the sector.
By the end of 1992, progress has been restored. The government expects water and sanitation
coverage to reach a significantly larger percentages of the population by the mid- 1990s (Annex 8G).
2.04         Not only is coverage low, but water is also of poor quality. The systems currently
provides water at a quality that is inconsistent with Mexico's level of economic development.
Inadequate water and sanitation systems have created unhealthy environmental conditions.
Disinfection is generally inadequate, especially for small systems. Deterioration of ground water
quality is an increasingly important problem due to arsenic poisoriing in the northern area and leaching
from dumps in the valley of Mexico and other urban areas. Pollution from agrochemicals is a problem
in the agricultural areas. Unsafe water and the lack of sanitation are among the principal causes of
2 Other LAC countries have the following coverage for 1990: Argentina (67%), Brazil(96%), Colombia (89%) and
Costa Rica (92%). Sewerage coverage including septic tank connections are: Argentina (89%), Brazil (79%),
Colombia (97%) and Costa Rica (96Y%). PAHO "Health Conditions in the Americas".



3
morbidity and infant mortality3. The use of untreated water for irrigation also causes a health problem
in the country4.
2.05          Sector Organization and Legal Aspects. In an effort to improve its effectiveness, the
sector has undergone many reorganizations during the past two decades. Overall, the results have been
moderate, due to inherent institutional inefficiencies, or to lack of a adequately trained staff In 1980, in
a first attempt at decentralization, more responsibility for the sector was given to state agencies, under
the overall direction of the Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP). In 1982,
sector responsibilities were transferred to the Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE),
which became the executing agency for external loans to the sector. In 1990, the National Water
Commission (CNA) was created as an autonomous organization within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (SARI). In 1992, SEDUE's functions regarding water supply and sanitation and
environmental protection were assumed by the Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL).
Amendments to the Mexican Constitution, made in 1983, have assigned to municipalities the
responsibility for the provision of water supply and sanitation services. In practice, these services have
been provided with heavy assistance from the state and federal governments.
2.06          Functions of the state-level water agencies vary widely from state to state. Some state
agencies concentrate on assisting municipalities in the design and construction of water and sewerage
systems, while making the municipalities responsible for the operation and maintenance of their
systems. Other state agencies provide all water and sewerage services to urban and rural communities,
from planning and construction to operation, billing and collection. At the Federal level, some
institutional arrangements have changed, particularly those of SARH. There are five major players in
the urban water supply and sanitation services, as described below.
2.07          The SARH is responsible for water administration through its agency the National
Water Comrnmission (CNA). CNA is the technical sector support agency both in water supply and
sanitation, as well as irrigation. For water supply, it has sector-wide responsibilities for planning,
setting and enforcing technical standards, assisting operating agencies to develop their institutional
development programs, monitoring the perfornance of the operating agencies, and helping them to
prepare annual action plans to improve their performance. CNA is responsible for the definition of
priorities of the sector, planning of development, and protection and administration of water resources.
In addition, CNA is responsible for technical support, and in coordination with the National Bank for
Public Works (BANOBRAS) and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), reviews the
sector annual investment plan, and coordinates design and implementation of the National Training
Program with the Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA) and the National Association of
3.In 1990, intestinal diseases was the number one cause of death in Mexico, with a rate of 32.8 per 100,000 people.
SAR Second Water and Sanitation Sector Project, February 8, 1994.
4.It is estimated that about 240,000 hectares are being irrigated with untreated wastewater. As part of the cholera
prevention campaign, the use of wastewater for irrigating vegetables has been banned.



4
Water Supply Operating Agencies (AMOAPA). SEDESOL is responsible for funding sector
investments and issuing official water standards and environmental impact assessments, and together
with the Ministry of Planning and Budgeting (SPP) within the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(SHCP) participates in preparing and approving the annual investment program for the sector. To help
coordinate and standardize state needs with the Federal and State plans, State Water Supply and
Sanitation Subcommittees (SWSS) were created in all states. The main responsibilities of SWSSs are
to: (a) coordinate sector activities; (b) set sector priorities for water use; (c) select communities where
water and sanitation services will be implemented; (d) propose annual sector investment plans; (e)
assign state financial resources with credit resources coming from BANOBRAS; (f) propose to the
State Congress the tariff level and structure; and (g) promote private sector participation. CNA acts as
the technical secretariat of each SWSS. In rural areas, the Programa Nacional de Solidaridad
(SOLIDARIDAD) works with communities to promote economic development, including the
provision of potable water and sanitation services facilities, and acts as a channel for government funds.
The Federal Government is aware of the organizational problems at both the State and Municipal level
and the Government continues implementing organizational changes to improve the provision of
services nationwide (Charts 1-2).
2.08         Sector Strategy. In line with its overall strategy of decentralization, the Government
is committed to support the delegation of water supply and sewerage services to municipalities and to
promote sustainable development of water resources with emphasis on rational and efficient resource
use. In addition, the Government is encouraging the preservation of water quality and the environment
by taking the river basin as the basic unit for water management. The challenge to the Government is
to help the municipalities carry out this responsibility efficiently.
2.09         To meet this challenge and as part of the APAZU, the Government (through CNA)
prepared the National Program for Water Quality Improvement in 1991, which aims at: (a) monitoring
water quality and its assessment; (b) developing effluent standards and discharge permits; (c)
strengthening the finance system; (d) developing sanitation and treatment infrastructure; (e) improving
management of river basin pollution; and (f) reinforcing the sector's institutional capacity.
2.10         Bank Lending to the Sector. The Bank has been active in the water supply and
sanitation sector in Mexico for about twenty years. Throughout this period, the Bank has supported
the Government's priorities to make progress in proposing, planning, executing and financing key
activities in the sector. Altogether, there have been five loans to Mexico for a total to US$ 375.3
million, as follows: loans 909-ME (US$90 million in 1973), 1186-ME (US$40 rmillion in 1975); 1913-
ME (US$125 million in 1980); 2281-ME (US$100.3 million in 1983); and 3101-ME (US$20 million in
1989). Bank involvement began in 1973 with the first water supply loan, which was to build bulk
water supply facilities for Mexico City (Annex 1). The next three financed physical improvements in
various medium-sized cities. The fifth loan, to support water and sanitation facilities and productive
opportunities for women, was allowed to lapse and never became effective. This was because the



5
Government created the SOLIDARIDAD program5 that provided grants rather than loans for the same
activities. While the above projects successfully achieved their physical objectives (extending and
improving water and sewerage systems and increasing service levels), they did not meet their
institutional objectives (establishing an appropriate institutional framework and sound cost-recovery
policies)6.  This was due mainly to the limited ability of the national agency to provide technical
assistance to local institutions and to the lack of adequate commitment to the objective of cost-
recovery. The main lessons learned from these projects were the importance of developing self-
sufficient water agencies, community support, and designs that reflect local needs and willingness to
pay.
3.             Project Objectives and Description.
3.01           The main objectives of the project were to support the implementation of the Sector
Reorganization Program, which was designed to increase coverage of water supply and sanitation
services, improve their quality, promote sound pricing policies, progressively reduce the need for
government funding, and improve environmental conditions in Mexico. Specific project objectives
were to: (a) reduce the amount of subsidies to the sector; (b) strengthen the institutional framework at
the national level; (c) promote at state, regional andlor municipal levels the development of companies
of sufficient scale to operate economically and maintain their water and sanitation systems efficiently
and with financial autonomy; (d) provide by the end of 1994, water supply and sanitation services in
Mexico to about 24 million additional people, most of whom belong to the poorer segment of the
population; and (e) improve the environment by implementing a pilot water-pollution control program
and requiring a comprehensive environmental assessment of each financed sub-project.
3.02           The loan consisted of the following two components that the Bank felt were equally
important:
A. The National Level.
3.03           This US$61.4 million component was to be executed by CNA and included:
(a) assistance to CNA and training for its staff in: (i) sub-project preparation and
evaluation under the new national policies; (ii) review and updating of existing technical
norms and parameters for the design, construction, and maintenance of the water
supply and sanitation systems; (iii) design and implementation of a sector monitoring
5.This program is designed to improve standard of living of the poor, and finance, on a grant basis, water and
sanitation works in rural and in some urban areas.
. World Bank: Project Performance Audit Report: Mexico City Water Supply Project (Loan 909-ME); Medium Cities
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1185-ME); Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Loan 1913-ME); and Third Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2281-ME). OED
Report No. M93-779, July 23, 1993.



6
system; (iv) assistance to operating agencies for their institutional development
programs; (v) strengthening environmental assessment capability; (vi) specialized
studies to provide or update the basic information needed to define medium and long-
term water pollution control policies; (vii) a pilot environmental project in the Lerma-
Chapala Basin, which would also provide the opportunity to test the institutional, legal,
technical, and financial schemes that were under consideration; (viii) financing for the
physical infrastructure needed for the National Water Quality Monitoiing Program and
the implementation and operation of the Water Quality Information System, which
included equipment for five regional and 22 state laboratories and for field sampling
and analysis; (ix) review of existing legislation and carry out the private sector
participation study; (x) financing for the preparation of a follow-up project;
(b) strengthening of IMTA's National Training Center through: (i) upgrading training
facilities in Cuemavaca; (ii) purchasing training materials and equipment; (iii)
development and organization of a management and technical training program for
sector personnel, including the execution of a training program for sector managers and
staff,
(c) strengthening BANOBRAS in the following areas: (i) project preparation and
evaluation; (ii) procurement; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation systems; and
(d) technical assistance to undertake a study, prepare model contracting documents,
and implement promotion programs and develop a strategy to encourage private sector
participation in provision of water supply and sanitation services.
B. The State and Local Levels.
3.04         This was to be the main project component, with a total estimated cost of US$589.5
million. It would provide a line of credit to municipal and/or state water and sanitation agencies and to
private providers of water supply and sanitation services to be administered by BANOBRAS in full
compliance with agreed sector policies. It would also fund investments to be made under the 1990-
1994 Investment Plan. Sub-projects would become eligible for Bank financing by complying with
agreed-upon criteria--BANOBRAS would only sign sub-loans with established independent water and
sanitation agencies after August 31, 1991. Eligible sub-projects would involve the rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply and sanitation systems, including sewage treatment plants, work
supervision, and institutional strengthening of sub-project executing agencies.



7
4.           Project Preparation, Design and Appraisal.
4.01         A Bank mission identified the project in November 1988 and its main components
were prepared by BANOBRAS through the middle of 1990. The Bank helped project preparation
with several missions. At the same time, IDB prepared a companion project (US$350 million), with
identical conditionality. The project was appraised in June 1990. The loan was approved by the Board
in November 1990 and signed in January 1991. The Borrower provided the Bank with legal opinions
with some delay, and thus the loan became effective only in June 199 1.
4.02         Project Design. The project was fairly well prepared. Project design was in general
satisfactory and in line with the Government of Mexico's main objective of supporting decentralization
and delegation of water supply and sewerage services to the municipalities. It was also in line with the
Bank's strategy aimed at providing water and sanitation services to low-income populations,
promoting more efficient sector management and supporting Government efforts to strengthen the
sector. The project was also timely as it played an important role in shaping Mexico's investment
program in the first stage of the Government's water supply and sanitation development plan. The
preparation of the project grew out of an intensive dialogue between the Government and the Bank
during preparation of the underpinning sector report7, which lead to the formulation of a Water and
Sanitation Sector Reorganization Program, in CNA document called Lineamientos.
4.03         Sector Reorganization. The Government of Mexico has for the last three decades
been closely investigating means of meeting demand for water and sanitation services.  Several
organizational changes have been made during the past two decades to improve sector performance
(para. 2.06). Mexico made rapid progress in improving its citizens' access to water and sewerage
services during the 1970s, but progress had subsequently slowed. The Government has been working
hard to establish a coordinated legal policy and institutional framework for managing the country's
scarce water resources. The Bank analyzed the need to improve water supply and sanitation coverage
and standards during project preparation, with particular emphasis on improving services to neglected
lower-income groups.
4.04         Sector Strengthening. The project was designed to strengthen the planning capacity
of the sector, particularly at the State and Municipal levels. As is standard in Bank water and sanitation
projects, the project used least-cost analysis for design of the investment prograrn. The absence of
least-cost analysis in the sector had led to poor investment decisions in previous Bank loans8. The
absence of such analysis in sector investments was traced to the system of grant financing and the
absence of cost recovery, where little incentive existed to plan effectively and conserve resources. The
project was to provide access to water and sewerage connections to about 3.2 million people (of 24
million benefiting from the National Water Supply and Sanitation Investment Plan), and mostly to low-
7. Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study --Institutional and Financial Constraints--7109-ME, June 1988.
SAR Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project. Report No. 8973-ME. November 8, 1990.



8
income groups. In the case of rural communities, improvements would have an important impact on
the welfare of women, as local customs often call for women to walk long distances to fetch water in
buckets. The project investment would also contribute significantly to improve both public health and
the standard of living among the population receiving the services under the project. To qualify for a
sub-loan, water supply sub-projects should yield a minimum Rate of Return (RR) of 12%, higher than
the opportunity cost of capital in Mexico. The acceptable RR for water-pollution control sub-projects
would be only 10%, since reducing pollution generates positive extemalities that are not easy to
quantify. To help sub-project implementation, sub-project evaluation guidelines were prepared, which
were consistent with the policies and priorities established by the Government to strengthen the sector.
4.05          Financial Measures. During appraisal, the Bank was concerned that water tariffs
were not sufficiently high to cover operating and investment costs. Before appraisal, rates averaged
about US$0.07 per cubic meter, which was considered very low, compared to an average incremental
cost of services of US$0.30 to US$0.50 per cubic meter. Furthermore, many cities did not charge
explicitly for sewerage services. Most water and sewerage agencies did not meter water services or
establish sound accounting and internal control systems. To enhance cost recovery, the design of the
project required: (a) that as condition for sub-lending for a sub-project, every sub-borrower should
have tariffs in place to at least cover its operating and maintenance expenses (excluding depreciation);
(b) a commitment, under the conditions of the sub-loan, from every sub-borrower to increase water
and sewerage rates in accordance with a satisfactory initial timetable; and (c) a commitment from each
sub-borrower to implement conmmercial accounting and internal auditing, and to carry an institutional
development program.
4.06          The  Bank was also concerned about the potential for conflict between project
financing criteria and those of the newly created SOLIDARIDAD9 program. The Government agreed
in August 1990 to avoid this by limniting SOLIDARIDAD's target group to the poorest populations,
and confirmed during negotiations that SOLIDARIDAD funding for the water and sanitation sector in
the poorest municipalities would have the same criteria and norms as the Bank project'.
4.07          Environmental Assessment.  Lack of control of municipal and industrial water
discharges was another major concern for the Bank at appraisal. Most industries connected to
municipal sewers discharge their effluent without any pre-treatment. The project design therefore
emphasized strengthening the institutional capacity of Operating Agencies (OAs), to operate, maintain,
control and monitor waste-treatment facilities. It was agreed that all sub-projects would require an
environmental impact assessment, to be carried out by CNA, as an eligibility condition. Failure to
9.This program was designed to improve the standard of living of the poor, and to finance on a grant basis, water and
sanitation works in rural and in some urban areas. SAR Report No. 8973-ME, November 8,1990.
. Indice de Marginalidad as indicated in the Manual Unico de Operaciones para el Programa de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado.



9
implement this measure would be a condition of default under the sub-loan. During negotiations,
agreements were reached with the Government on the water-quality monitoring programs to be
implemented during project execution.
4.08         Borrower and Executing Agency. The Loan Agreement provided that the Borrower
and executing agency for the project would be BANOBRAS. Its responsibilities included: (a)
approving sub-loans to the OAs ; (b) supervising project execution by each OA and monitoring
compliance with sub-loan conditions; (c) participating in each SWS and preparing and sending semi-
annual report to the Bank on the execution of the project. CNA would be the technical agencies
responsible for: (a) applying, modifying and monitoring sector development policies; (b) preparing
technical standards; (c) assisting implementing agencies in project preparation, construction, and work
supervision; (d) providing technical assistance to operating agencies; (e) developing and implementing,
in coordination with IMTA, and AMOAPA, the National Training Program; (f) preparing annual action
plans to improve the performance of the operating agencies; and (g) implementing the Water Pollution
Control Program.
4.09         During appraisal and negotiations, several important issues arose concerning: (a) on-
lending rates; (b) conditions of effectiveness; and (c) sub-loans.
4.10         On-lending Rates. During appraisal, it was agreed that the minimum on-lending rate
to be used in the project was CETES, the Government's marginal cost of peso funding, which was
sufficient to cover the cost of funds to BANOBRAS. This rate was different from that specified in the
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the Bank and Mexico for the water and sanitation
sector, and at negotiations both the Bank and the Mexican authorities agreed to amend the GIRA.
This also created the need to amend the current Normatividad (budgeting and subsidy transfer
agreement for the Mexican development banks), so that the Borrower's financial intermediation costs
(paid by the Government) would be borne by the sub-loan recipients through the higher interest rates
to be set in the GRA. Once the GIRA was amended and Normatividad was in force, the Bank and the
Borrower could modify interest rates for the project accordingly.
4.11         Condition of Effectiveness. At the request of the Mexican delegation it was agreed
during negotiations to remove one condition of loan effectiveness--execution of a contract between
IMTA and its consultants-- and make it instead a dated covenant to be met by March 1, 1991. The
reason was to avoid that a possible delay in securing this contract could affect loan effectiveness, since
the IMTA contract was not critical for project success.
4.12         Sub-loans. To make the mix of funds to be applied in different types of sub-project
components transparent, and to facilitate monitoring, it was agreed during negotiations that
components dealing with institutional development, emergency infrastructure works, and sanitation or



10
pollution control works for each sub-project would each be covered by a separate sub-loan and sub-
loan agreement. Also, it was agreed that the obligations of the Borrower, Operating Agency,
Guarantor and State shall be combined in the Sub-loan Agreement.
4.13         Procurement. The Bank's procurement requirements were discussed during appraisal
with BANOBRAS and CNA. Standard Bidding Documents for Mexico, already agreed with the
Mexican authorities and the Bank in Cuemavaca in April 1990, would be used during project
implementation. OAs would carry out procurement under CNA supervision, and CNA would be
responsible for the procurement of the national component. All ICB and the first LCB contracts per
state, both for acquisition of goods and for civil works, would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
All other procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review, and CNA would
retain documentation for these contracts for periodic supervision by the Bank.
4.14         All contracts that could be packed to exceed the equivalent of US$5.0 million for civil
works, and US$250,000 for equipment or materials would be procured on the basis of ICB following
the Bank's procurement guidelines. In the case of procurement of goods through ICB, Mexican firms
would be provided a preference margin equal to 15% of total cost or an amount equivalent to the
prevailing import duty, whichever was lower.  The Bank reviewed and found acceptable local
procurement procedures. At negotiations, it was agreed, based on previous experience under Bank
financed projects, to increase the limit for shopping from US$50,000 to US$250,000 for civil works
and from US$25,000 to US$50,000 for goods. These LCB procedures would be used to award
contracts with estimated cost below US$5.0 million for civil works and US$250,000 for goods, up to
US$310.0 million in the aggregate for civil works and US$50.0 million for goods. Selection and
appointment of consultants would follow Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.
4.15         Disbursements. The loan was to be disbursed over a five year period -- December 31,
1990 to December, 1995 -- which was consistent with the standard disbursement profile for sector
projects in Mexico. The Mexican Government mentioned to the Bank that it was considering
accelerating project execution and was making considerable efforts to complete the project in three
years, in which case the disbursement profile, the Government's contribution, and cash generation
would all be accelerated.  It was agreed that the final date for submission to the Bank of
BANOBRAS's proposals for sub-loans would be December 31, 1993. To expedite project execution,
a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, with a deposit of up to US$30.0 million
equivalent. In view of the desirability of starting the project without delays, retroactive financing up to
US$30.0 million (10% of loan funds) was approved for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1990.
4.16         Extemal Auditing. BANOBRAS would continue to have its financial statements
audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed that the Bank would review the
external auditors' terms of reference to ensure that they would include the audit of the Special Account
and of the Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). BANOBRAS, in turn, would require each OA to
engage external auditors satisfactory to BANOBRAS to audit their financial statements and project



11
accounts. BANOBRAS's audit report would be presented to the Bank annually, no later than June 30.
CNA and IMTA would keep project accounts that would be audited by the Contraloria General de la
Federaci6n and their report would be furnished to the Bank, no later than June 30 of the following
year.
5.           Project Cost and Financing.
5.01         The total project cost was estimnated at US$650.9 million equivalent, of which
US$512.9 million (78.8% of total) would be directed towards financing investment sub-projects
(US$282.7 million to water supply and US$230.2 million to sanitation); US$19.9 million (3.1% of
total) would fund technical assistance; US$28.5 million (4.4% of total) would be used to prepare
feasibility studies and final designs; and US$4.7 million (0.7% of total) would finance equipment
needed to upgrade CNA's laboratories. The foreign exchange cost of the project was estimated at
US$300.0 million, about 46% ofthe total project cost. Project cost included US$84.9 million (13.1%
of the total) as provision for taxes. Individual project components included physical and prices
contingencies of 10% and 14% respectively.
5.02        The Bank loan, amounting to US$300 million would finance about 46% of total
project costs (US$38.1 million and US$261.9 million for the National and State and Local components
respectively). The project financing plan included also equity contributions from the Federal and State
governments to OAs, as well as, OA's internal cash generation (Annex 4.B). The cost sharing
arrangements between Federal and State governments were defined and agreed upon on the basis of
each state income. Local participation was defined on a case-by-case, taking into account the financial
soundness of each OA, which would be assessed in each feasibility study. BANOBRAS would bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risk on the Bank loan, but since the CETES rate was market
determined, it reflected expectations about inflation and devaluation. The proceeds of the Bank loan
would be transferred by BANOBRAS to the Guarantor in accordance with the Nonnatividad
applicable in Mexico to Bank loans, and subsequently the Guarantor would lend a portion of the
proceeds back to BANOBRAS in pesos for on-lending by BANOBRAS to the OAs. BANOBRAS
would on-lend to the OAs through sub-loans, in Mexican pesos, at the minimum variable interest rate,
sufficient to cover the cost of fund to BANOBRAS, with repayment up to 15 years, including up to
three years-grace period, and the guarantee of the state on behalf of the public companies. The Bank
loan was made on Bank's standard variable interest rate, with 17 years maturity, including five years
grace.
5.03        The US$300.0 million loan would be used to finance the following:
>     Equipment, materials and civil works for National (80%), State and Local
Components (50%);
>     Consulting services for implementing the National, State and Local
Components (100%);



12
>     Unallocated funds.
6.           Project Implementation.
6.01         The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1995.
However, after some initial delays explained below, it was actually implemented in only three years,
two years ahead of the appraisal estimate. More rapid implementation reflected mainly the evidence of
a higher demand for sector investment and a large number of 2,122 sub-projects to be financed (para.
7.03). The last disbursement was made in March 1, 1994.
6.02         Contracting Staff and Consultants. Some minor delays during the first year of
implementation occurred, due to slowness in contracting staff in the executing agencies and CNA.
However, this situation started to improve by the end of the first year. Implementation continued at a
faster pace during the following years and the project was completed way ahead of the original
schedule (Annex 2). BANOBRAS experienced some delays in the presentation of its institutional
development program, as a result of delays in hiring personnel for the program during the first stage.
CNA experienced a similar situation in implementing its institutional development program, mainly due
to difficulties in contracting, both the personnel and consultants for the implementation of the General
Information System for the Water and Sanitation Sector (SIAPA) at the regional and state levels, and
for acquiring the required hardware. Some additional delays occurred in contracting support personnel
for the strategic program at the regional level, and in the design and approval of model subcontracts for
Consolidaci6n and sanitation components.
6.03         Preparation Guidelines for Feasibility Studies. CNA was slow in updating the
guidelines for the preparation of feasibility studies, to accommodate the agreements reached during
loan negotiations and also additional time was lost in the selection of consultants to implement the
National Training Program, which resulted in IMTA's slow inauguration of this program, which
occurred by the end of 1991. The Pollution Control Program was implemented satisfactorily To
speed up implementation of SIAPA, the Bank approved the purchasing of computer equipment,
without waiting for the institutional development programs to be ready. This action was taken to
assure timely availability of sector data for CNA to assist in the establishment of priorities in the TA to
OAs.
6.04         Government Counterpart Funding.  The Government was slow in providing
counterpart funding for the project at the beginning of implementation. This made BANOBRAS the
sole source of financing for the OAs and caused delays. After the first year, the Government funds
were available in larger quantities than estimated at appraisal, allowing an acceleration of project
completion. Sector lending had been consolidated de-jure into one window. It was agreed during
appraisal that lending through this window was to be based on a poverty index, and would target cities
with relatively large low-income populations. Nevertheless project sub-loans still had to compete with
grant funding to some municipalities.



13
6.05         By early 1993, project implementation had progressed faster than forecast in the
original implementation schedule. The speed of disbursements, however, masked some serious
problems. BANOBRAS could not supply the Bank with information necessary to monitor
compliance with covenants relating to sub-projects in the Loan Agreement such as: (i) entering to
contractual agreements with OAs; (ii) providing financing to OAs, which did not contribute from their
own intemal resources (Schedule 5.C), and (iii) atomization of large projects into several small loans
that led to a large number of small contracts. The Bank could therefore determine neither whether
each sub-project was following the agreed implementation plan, nor whether it had earned the
agreed minimum rate of return (Section 4.02 (c) (iii) of the Loan Agreement). It became apparent
that many sub-projects were out of compliance. By the time it discovered this situation 98 % of the
funds had been disbursed, and the Bank could not realistically stop project implementation. The
Bank did, however, call the situation to the attention of the Mexican officials, at which point matters
began to improve. A similar situation existed in CNA, and in addition there was a lack of coordination
among Sub-Direcciones and Gerencias, and limited support to the area of Consolidaci6n (TA).
Therefore, a lack of implementation capacity and supervision of the TA is reflected by its minimal
impact on improving efficiency and management in the OAs. Inadequate coordination and rivalries
between BANOBRAS and CNA in the earlier stages of the project also affected project
implementation.
6.06         Project Cost and Financing.  Total project cost reached US$1,340.0 million
(Annexes 4A-4B). This is US$689.1 million higher than the appraisal estimate of US$650.9 million).
Of the total, US$319.0 million (23.8 %) was financed by the Bank, including US$19.0 million
disbursed from Loan 2666-ME to support additional financing of equipment, materials, civil works and
consulting services in the preparation of studies and designs. The Federal Government provided
US$544.7 (US$422.3 million more than the original estimate); State Governments provided US$316.0
million (compared to US$130.5 million estimated in the SAR); US$33.4 million carne from by the
'As' internal cash generation (less than the SAR estimate); and the remaining US$126.9 million carne
from BANOBRAS. A greater number of sub-projects financed caused the rise in total costs. The
Federal Government's contribution to the project was exceptional, compared to the financing available
for other Bank's projects.
6.07         Procurement. In general, the procurement process was satisfactory, although some
delays occurred in the beginning of implementation for the preparation of bid documentation.
Originally the SAR estimated US$109.0 million of total loan financing for the project were to be
procured under ICB. However, because the sub-projects were smaller than original envisioned, only
US$27.6 million were procured under ICB (Annex 5B). Procurement missions reviewed the unit costs
during bid evaluation to ensure that contracts proposed for awards were technically sound.
Confidentiality of the bidding process was a concern by suppliers and contractors, and there was
consensus that this was an area where the agencies needed much improvement. BANOBRAS
prepared and sent a circular letter with precise instructions to improve confidentiality to all executing
agencies handling procurement. Mexican staff considered the Bank's documentation requirements to



14
be excessively burdensome. There is need for procurement training particularly because BANOBRAS
and CNA are relatively new executing agencies, and because of decentralization efforts. Mexican
officials from both institutions confirmed to the Bank their interest in this type of trainig (Annev 5A-
SB).
6.08         Disbursements. Annex 3 indicates the estimated and actual schedules for the tining
of disbursements and allocation of loan proceeds. The proceeds of the loan were disbursed two years
in advance of the period estimated at appraisal which was considered somewhat faster than the
disbursement profile for water sector projects in other countries of Latin America. As of December 31,
1991, a total of US$252.1 million was already committed, and US$105.2 million already disbursed.
The loan was fully committed by January 1993. The main reason for this fast disbursement was the
advanced degree of preparation of several sub-projects, which allowed the Bank to approve large
amounts during the first years of implementation. In fact, many inappropriate or inadequately prepared
projects were approved. BANOBRAS informed the Bank that several sub-projects required additional
financing. This was a result of inadequate supervision and management information that allowed the
borrower to continue to approve new sub-projects, without realizing that the project did not have
sufficient funds to complete sub-projects already approved (Tra 6.05). Disbursements of up to
US$5.0 million equivalent for works, and up to US$0.3 million equivalent for goods, were made on the
basis of certified SOEs prepared by BANOBRAS. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account was
opened at the Central Bank with a the deposit of up to US$30.0 nillion equivalent. The original
Closing Date was June 1996, but the Loan was actually closed on December 31, 1993. The original
loan allocations were revised in September and December 1993, to reflect the actual project
implementation needs. The final disbursement was made on Ma-ch 1, 1994. The original and actual
disbursements by categories are shown in Annex 3.
7.           Project Results
7.01         Project results were mixed.  The project was very successful in expanding and
improving the quantity and quality of water supply and sanitation services ( Annexes 8A-8E).
However, it was only reasonably successful in strengthening the sector institutions. Achievements
through studies, seminars and workshops were also modest. Institutional achievements ranged from
modest to disappointing (Daras. 7.06 and 7.07).  The project aimed correctly to fornulate and
implement policies of decentralization in the water supply and sanitation sector by reducing
Government funding to the sector. However, such objectives were partially achieved, because
beneficiaries only participated in a limited degree in sub-projects design and decision rnaking . This
failure to give beneficiaries a real sense of project ownership was due to pressure from powerful
political institutions such CNA and SEDESOL, who promoted certain types of sub-project and even
authorized sub-projects that were not in compliance with the eligibility criteria and on-lending
conditions. Excessive focus on speedy disbursements appears to have diverted the Bank attention from
enforcement of loan compliance (para.. 9.05). Nevertheless, the dialogue between the Government
and the Bank on sector and institutional matters has continued and a follow-up project has been
approved. Sector responsibility has been vested in CNA, and the Bank is planning to continue assisting CNA to



15
strengthen its technical and planning capacities. Despite the initially inadequate counterpart funding
due to Government delays in distributing its revenue sharing contribution to the states and
municipalities and the cumbersome procedures for approval of sub-loans, project disbursements were
about two years faster than estimated at appraisal. This was the result of almost total lack of Bank
supervision that allowed approval of new sub-projects without assurance that the project had sufficient
financing to complete sub-projects already initiated.
7.02          Physical Results. The physical targets of the project in terms of water supply and
sewerage facilities were surpassed to a large extent. A total of about 4.5 million people were provided
with water supply and sanitation services, compared to 3.2 million estimated at appraisal"1. A total of
43,342 water supply and 32,077 sewerage connections, and the necessary supporting infrastructure,
were constructed as a result of the project. Rehabilitation and operational improvements to existing
facilities has provided more reliable and safer services to a number of people. It is estimated that about
75% and % of the total population now receive water supply services and 61 % receive sanitation
services. Final designs were completed for 147 cities under the Pollution Control Program, operating
water treatment capacity was increased from 15m3 /sec. to 23m3 /sec., and the inventory of 478 water
treatment plants was completed. The project expauded badly-needed services and thuc in.1roved
health and environmental conditions. The project has contributed to a reduction of infant mortality, by
addressing the principal cause of diarrhea: poor quality of water supply and inadequate sanitation
services to low-income groups (Annex 8G-8H).
7.03          Sub-projects and Their Financing. The loan financed a total of 2,171 sub-projects
in Mexico, with a total investment cost of US$1,285 million equivalent (NPMex$3,853.9 rnillion),
which is 96% of total project cost. The Bank financed US$233.0 rnillion (18%) and the remaining
US$1,037.8 million was financed by Federal and States governments and intemal cash generation. Of
the total, 237 sub-projects (US$161.1 million equivalent) were located in the State of Mexico; 214
sub-projects (US$86.7 million equivalent) in the State of Guanajuato; 131 sub-projects (US$80.5
million equivalent) in the State of Sonora; 124 sub-projects (US$34.4 nillion equivalent) in the State of
Puebla; and the rest or about 1,465 sub-projects (IJS$980.1 million equivalent) among the remaining
28 states of the country. Eighty three percent of sub-projects were for infrastructure operations (1,154
water supply, 497 sewerage and 143 water supply-sewerage) and 377 sub-projects for sanitation
operations (Annex 8A).
7.04         The Government for its Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Investment Plan 1990-
1994, had estirnated that about US$4.5 billion equivalent, will be required to expand and improve the
existing OAs, as well as to improve the environmental conditions of the country. As of December
1993, the updated annual water supply and sanitation investment had reached a total US$4.1 billion
equivalent. Additional funding sources will be needed to ensure financial feasibility of the proposed
investment, and it is expected that investment in 1994 will exceed the Investment Plan. The follow-up
.The information has been provided by BANOBRAS, therefore the conclusion regarding the service levels has to be
taken with caution.



16
operation would finance part of the proposed Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Investment Plan
1990-1994 and 1994-1998 (Annex 8D)
7.05         Studies. CNA carried out a Private Participation Sector Study under the project. It
included the developing procedures and model contracts for various types of private sector
participation in the water supply and sanitation sector. After a complete review of public contracting in
the sector, the study provides recommendations for changes in public contracting and water laws in
Mexico. Additionally, the study has developed a strategy for implementing a program to promote
private sector participation, especially in municipalities, where private sector participation might be
advantageous. As a result, the private sector is already participating in the financing, construction and
operation of waste water treatment plants and it is expected that will play a very important role in
infrastructure development. CNA also prepared Strategy for Prevention and Control of Water
Pollution in Mexico. This incorporates the results of a workshop involving Mexican public and private
sector agencies and it will be used as a basis for the technical assistance program in any follow-up
lending operation by the Bank. A Pilot Environmental Study in the Lerma-Chapala Basin was carried
out by CNA, which analyzed the preservation of water quality, pollution control and management of
the use of both surface and ground water, including promotion of efficient use of water. A consultative
group has been set to oversee the study and to evaluate its achievements. By July 1993, 36 of the
municipal wastewater treatment plants have been built and are in operation. Improvements in water
quality have been observed both in the Lerma River and in Lake Chapala, and CNA is developing a
water quality model to help asses the overall impact and plan future actions. As of today, the Lerma-
Chapala basin study has served to demonstrate in Mexico the importance of an integrated approach to
river basin management including water quality. CNA designed a guideline entitled El Procedmiento
de Impacto Ambiental, which includes a methodology for considering environmental variables in the
planning and implementing of water projects. IMTA prepared a Comparative Study of the Design and
Operation of Water Treatment Plants, which evaluates both the engineering, operational and
institutional aspects of a sample group of treatment plants. Both studies have been distributed by CNA
to all the OAs in the country (Annex 8B).
7.06         Training.-The project results were satisfactory in terms of quality and quantity. A total
of 5,041 of the operating personnel received training during the three years of project implementation.
The original target for the training of about 10,000 operating personnel of 300 state and local operating
agencies had been estimated based on a six-year period of project implementation (Annex 8.C). The
training component has been satisfactorily implemented by IMTA under CNA's guidance and in
cooperation with the Association of Water Utilities (EAS). [MTA and CNA have designed a National
Training Program, which will be implemented in 1994-1997. Sector training workshops were
organized and materials were designed. The latter have been revised and evaluated periodically by
IMTA. The training component was carried out through workshops, which identified WUs weakness
and training needs, and designed curricula and several manuals. The training component was provided
through several training centers owned by IMTA located in Nuevo Leon, Veracruz, Yucatan, Sonora,
and Cuernavaca. Most of the training centers were associated with existing water systems or treatment
facilities available in the regions. More than 200 courses and seminars were conducted in the areas of:



17
(i) administration; (ii) commercial; (iii) pollution control; and (iv) unaccounted for water. Staff that
completed workshops and training received certification as competent in their position for contracting
with WUs. Additionally, there were several technical exchanges among WUs and foreign water
utilities . Project experience shows that priority should be given to the continuation of training, which
should focus on WUs' personnel, as well as and state and regional personnel of CNA, so as to be
consistent with the decentralization process and with the strengthening of CNA, which actually serves
as technical agent to WUs. Additional training should be focused to strengthen the sector capability of
all personnel directly involved in the day to day supervision and administration of OAs. A technical
exchange program with participants from several OAs was initiated, which included discussions of their
problems and share of their solutions. Some of the more advanced OAs have started to participate in
exchanges with less developed countries to share their experiences and hence provide technical
assistance to those countries. Annexes 8C shows the distribution of participants by agencies and by
type of semninars aiid workshop.
7.07         The total cost associated with the National Training Program was US$7.4 million
compared to US$9.6 million at appraisal, but it covered a shorter period than estimated. A total of
US$0.2 million financed the construction and rehabilitation of three regional centers and an additional
US$1.7 million was used for the financing of equipment and teaching materials (Annex 8D).
7.08         Institutional Results.- Achievements of the institutional objectives range from mixed
to disappointing. Results were particularly disappointing regarding objectives of expanding the role of
the beneficiaries and the decentralization process. While the government fundamentally changed its
policy, towards one of promoting local ownership and operalion of water supply and sanitation
facilities, the objective of establishing technically strong beneficiaries was only partially achieved.
Water losses (average 45%) are still high, despite several studies carried out to improve operations.
Several studies were carried out to improve the operations of local operators, but their impact was less
than satisfactory (see Annex 8D). The executing agency did not systematically consult with local
operators concerning design solutions; and the Bank did not recognize non-participation of the local
operators as constituting a problem, mainly because Bank stff supervision was inadequate and
involved virtually no visits to OAs. The objectives of strengthening the institutional framework at the
national level, through developing strong technical support of CNA, as well as strengthening
BANOBRAS, the executing agency, and reinforcing its project preparation capacity, were only
partially achieved. The project also had only partial success achieving the objective of helping CNA
apply least-cost principles to project preparation. Least cost solutions were applied to water and
sewerage facilities for a very small number of sub-projects. The situation improved toward the end of
project implementation, based on Bank recommendations. However, much remains to be done to
extend least-cost principles throughout the sector.  The executing agency's performance and
commitment to the project and continuity of sector policies varied through the years. BANOBRAS
was reorganized in April 1993, and its new organization is aimedl at converting BANOBRAS into an
effective and efficient development bank. The decentralization process is planned to continue.



18
7.09         The project had some successful institutional results in three areas. First, unified
financing mechanisms with the same norms and conditions for all sub-borrowers, implemented under
the project, helped BANOBRAS establish procedures improve the efficiency of its investments.
Second, the project was instrumental in promoting the idea of financing integrated water and sanitation
projects, particularly as a means to combat surface and ground water pollution by domestic waste
water. Third, important improvements were made in eleven state laws. These new laws will help
improve the performance and management of OAs. The most important changes are related to: (a)
easier tariff approval methods--tariffs will be approved by the Municipal Councils--which will avoid
delays and political interference by the participation of the State Congress in tariff setting; (b) legal
rights of the OAs to cut service due to lack of payment; and (c) more autonomy in dealing with priority
of investments.
7.10         Audit Compliance.  Submission to the Bank of audited reports was frequently
delayed by several months at the beginning of implementation. The Bank expressed its concern on
several occasions and recommnended also to incorporate some observations made by extemal auditors
(lack of cross references for some of IMTA's expenses, and timing of disbursements from
BANOBRAS to beneficiaries, errors in the SOEs, etc.). BANOBRAS gave assurances that timing of
disbursements would be improved, but the situation persisted after beneficiaries complained to the
Bank during the last supervision mission. BANOBRAS's financial statements were audited by external
auditors, and CNA and IMTA were audited by the Contralo fia General de la Federaci6n.
8.           Project Sustainability
8.01         Physical facilitie:s olxd c qipiiient thnat have been incorporated under the project are still
functioning properly, and there is no evidence that they will not be sustainable during their full useful
life. Increasing knowledge and important experience was gained in both the rationalization of
investments, promotion of water conservation and improvement of water quality. Institutional changes
in organization and in the reduction of the sector's dependence on the government are sustainable, but
have not eliminated the main causes of inefficiency in the water supply and sanitation sector. The
Government has taken a more effective role in the management of the water resources and much more
information has been accumulated. The project has laid the basis for the follow up Second Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, and has increased awareness on the part of all sector officials on
the need for institutional improvements, least cost solutions, and better information management
systems. In the long run this situation is expected to improve further, once the decentralization of the
sector, currently underway, achieves its intended effect.
9.           Bank Performance
9.01         Taking into consideration that this was the fifth Bank project to the Mexican water
supply and sanitation sector, the overall performance of the Bank was mixed, strong on some issues
and weak on others. At the time of project preparation, the Bank correctly highlighted the sector



19
policy issues and there appears to have existed a considerable unanimity of views between the Bank,
the Government and the sector institutions on all aspects of sector development: (objectives, strategy,
institutional needs and financial principles) resulting in a productive dialogue. The Bank addressed the
poor organization and weak execution capacity of BANOBRAS, and the need to increase water supply
tariffs to improve the financial situation of the water agencies and to foster more efficient and
financially independent operating agencies. The former projects in the sector required little explicit
justification, in view of the sector's obvious backlogs and its institutional and financial deficiencies, and
most of the feasibility studies carried out by WUs were not satisfactory. To avoid these problems, the
Bank will review a larger number of sub-projects under the proposed follow-up project. The Bank
addressed special attention to the social and environmental aspects of the sub-projects, as well as the
need to provide basic services for the low-income population. The Bank paid inadequate attention to
the issues of relationships between executing agencies, the borrower, and the beneficiaries, and the lack
of understanding of project objectives at the local level, which are pre-requisites for smooth and
effective implementation (para.. 6.04). During supervision, the Bank initially did not allow sufficient
time for adequate supervision in situ of the beneficiaries and the need for closer contact with the
implementation issues which they faced (para6.04). The supervision reports are notable for the
absence of comment on the inadequate performance of the respective beneficiaries.
9.02           Due to lack of adequate supervision, the Bank was unsuccessful in ensuring the quality
of sub-projects, despite its long experience with the previous projects in the sector'2. Although, both
project scope and design were appropriate, the project failed to provide adequately for beneficiary
participation in the decision-making process. Failure to include community participation as a
fundamental requirement of the project, especially at a time when the Government itself was attempting
to decentralize the sector, was clearly a weakness (pwras. 7.01 and 7.06). Despite the deficiencies
addressed in the previous projeCst3, the Bank during project preparation failed to define in sufficient
detail the roles and responsibilities of the implementing agency, BANOBRAS, even though experience
with SARH, BANOBRAS, and CNA during project preparation had already indicated serious
deficiencies. The Bank should have taken appropriate actions, such as to stop disbursements to certain
sub-projects that were not in compliance with the eligibility criteria and on-lending conditions,
especially in areas of financial and operational targets (Para 10. 03). This lack of compliance came to
the attention of the management of the Bank only during the last year of implementation, at which
point the Bank launched aggressive supervision efforts (para 9.05). Because the loan was already
fully committed, and since most sub-projects were already well advanced into their execution, the Bank
decided not to stop disbursements at that point.
12. Findings of the Audit for previous projects confirmed the project's performance rating as unsatisfactory and
uncertain. OED Report SecM93-779, July 23, 1993.
13. The Bank's experience worldwide has clearly shown that this sector is usually unable to achieve permanent
improvements without the active participation of beneficiaries. PAR Mexico: Medium Cities Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Loan 1186-ME); Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1913-
ME); and Third Medium-Size Citiea and Sinaloa State Water Project (Loan 22111-ME). Document SecM93-1601.



20
9.03         The Bank was strongly committed to assisting Mexico develop the water supply and
sanitation sector, improve the environment and strengthen the management and organizaion of its key
sector institutions. One of the main supporting features of its lending strategy has been to encourage
the Mexican authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects, with emphasis on
technical assistance, and the unification of Federal and State financial assistance to the OAs, under
standardized criteria and conditions. Bank performance during implementation demonstrated support
to the project and a desire to sustain project momentum During 1991-1992, a significant number of
contracts for consultant services were prepared and reviewed for financing under the loan. In order to
reduce administrative work load and to expedite project implementation, as an exception of normal
procedures, the Bank simplified procedures by reviewing only those consultant contracts with a value
equal to or exceeding US$100,000 equivalent per contract.
9.04         The Bank, BANOBRAS, CNA, IMTA, and Federal and Local Government institutions
maintained a good working relationship and understanding concerning some of the constraints affecting
the project. The Bank was also helpful in coordinating the activities of the Mexican's own internal
agencies. SWAs, SWSS and WUs sometimes tended to deal with each other at arm's length and a
middleman was needed. Thus the Bank attached great impqrtance to cooperation among the sector
agencies. By the time the loan closed, Federal, State and Municipal agencies were marginally stronger
than they had been. Indeed, the Bank intervention provided a continuity that would otherwise have
been absent; given the weakness of federal agencies and the organizational changes in the sector.
9.05        Despite the recommendations of the Project Completion Reports of the three main and
earlier water supply operations, the number of Bank staff supervision missions and their required skills
composition appear to have been inadequate for the size and complexity of the project (Annex 7).
Supervision efforts were sustained through full or partial missions from Project Effectiveness to
Closing Date, but excluding supervision combined with other projects, there was an average of only
2.2 supervision missions per year, although it was expected that at least three supervision missions per
year would be required by this project, especially during the first three years of execution. During the
first two years of implementation, supervision was done only by the Task Manager with emphasis on
discussing issues only with CNA without due consideration to the opinion provided by BANOBRAS.
Time spent on supervision was insufficient (average mission of one staff-week and some of them about
three days only). Furthermore, there were no visits to the local beneficiaries to assess their problems,
mainly their lack of operational and managerial experience. Ihe Task Manager did not properly
identify or address emerging and existing problems in the project. The Bank did not supervise the
project for almost a year (March 1992-Januazy 1993). Staff resources devoted to the project
supervision would have been sufficient to work with just the borrower and executing agency, but they
were inadequate to supervise individual projects with the intensity customary in other Bank projects.
The Bank mainly tried to speed up the project implementation by accelerating disbursement procedures
and viewed the accelerated disbursements as a sufficient sign of adequate project implementation.
Bank supervision improved during the last year of project implementation, when the new Task



21
Manager and additional Bank staff started visiting several beneficiaries and devoted additional time to
field visits to assess local problems. Bank supervision of the project started even before the loan
became effective, which was possible because the Bank was still supervising other operations. It is
worth highlighting the absence of both a training and environmental specialist, as well as a financial
analyst during the missions, contrary to what had been agreed at appraisal. There were few visits to
OAs to monitor the technical assistance being given, and assess its effects on OAs' operational and
management efficiency. There is a total absence of financial analysis in the Bank supervision reports.
9.06         Supervision reports provided a comprehensive picture of the technical matters of the
project, but rarely of the institutional-financial aspects of the Borrower and other implementing
agencies. The analysis of such aspects improved in later supervision reports.
10.          Borrower Performance
10.01        The project was properly identified and prepared. Project preparation and design were
satisfactorily carried out by BANOBRAS staff, with adequate assistance from the Bank. However,
BANOBRAS's performance ranged from generally unsatisfactory to modest throughout project
implementation even though the physical components of the projects were completed, in general, about
three years ahead of schedule.
10.02        BANOBRAS lacked capacity to supervise sub-projects and paid little attention to their
financial viability and sustainability. The design problems of some sub-projects was the result of poor-
quality feasibility studies or master plans. They were compounded by inadequate supervision from
BANOBRAS, partly resulting from a lack of coordination with CNA, and rivalries between the two
institutions (para. 6.05). The problems also stemmed from the absence of a monitoring and
information system to assess the progress of the project components and the degree of compliance with
sub-loan covenants. BANOBRAS, with the help of consultants, initiated the organization of an
adequate information system to start monitoring sub-project implementation only in 1993. Once the
information system was in place, it assured the flow of information from WUs to CNXs National
Information System and its verification.
10.03       During the last year of implementation when the Bank started very active supervision,
the Task Manager found that BANOBRAS had approved several sub-loans to beneficiaries who did
not meet the eligibility criteria, and had failed to ensure that OAs had contributed the agreed-upon
amount from their internal cash generation. In addition, BANOBRAS granted some sub-loans to
states and municipalities that were not autonomous, and in some cases approved sub-projects without
the assurances that the sub-projects already initiated would be completed. By this time, the Bank was
not able to take appropriate actions because of the advanced stage of execution of sub-projects (para.
9.02). An adequate management information system would have enabled BANOBRAS and the Bank
to monitor compliance with the loan conditions for each sub-loan.  To avoid this problem,
BANOBRAS agreed with the Bank to set-up a high-level group to monitor and to coordinate the



22
following project and to prepare a flow chart describing the different steps that have to be taken to
process and to approve a sub-project, as well as to increase the number of staff in charge of the
implementation of the project.
10.04       Most of the CNA's activities were carried out by its central office, although a
progressive involvement of the regional state offices occurred later in project implementation. CNA
has committed to a decentralization process and prepared a plan for training OA's staff to strengthen its
regional offices.
10.05       The Bank was concerned about the lack of coordination between BANOBRAS and
CNA. Several discussions were held during project implementation to alleviate the coordination
problems between BANOBRAS and CNA and to assess their responsibilities for project
implementation C,ara. 6. 05). BANOBRAS had limited resources for supervision, which made it
difficult to maintain satisfactory project leadership and to provide its presence in the field. Neither the
borrower nor the executing agency devoted adequate resources to supervise beneficiaries. As a result,
institutional improvements will have to be addressed in the following operation. Bank recommended
the establishment of a high level working group in BANOBRAS to coordinate and manage the project.
BANOBRAS has created an Executive Coordinating Unit and the Bank's recommendation will be
implemented in the follow-up operation.  Coordination aspects improved later, during project
implementation, when BANOBRAS assigned additional staff to supervise sub-projects.
10.06       BANOBRAS and CNA have improved their procurement procedures and knowledge
of the Bank's Guidelines, after their initial delays in procurement, because of the unfamiliarity of their
staff with the Bank's procurement procedures. Sufficient progress occurred during the last two years
of project implementation. BANOBRAS and CNA staff have improved their professional capacity with
their participation in seminars and conferences in areas of management and sub-project economic-
financial evaluation and supervision. The purchasing of laboratory equipment has improved the
IMTAs facilities to detect water leaks and reduce water losses in the design of water supply network.
Additionally, the rehabilitation of JMTA's training centers expanded its training capacity to carry
seminars and workshops.
10.07       IMfTA had serious delays in the preparing the National Training Program, compounded
by IMTA firing the foreign consultants in charge of supporting and advising them on preparation of the
training program and materials. CNA and IMTA did not coordinate sufficiently, which led to some
problems in the training program, but matters improved over the course of project implementation.



23
11.         Project Relationship
11.01       Over the full period of project implementation, the Bank's relationship with the
Borrower, CNA, IMTA, Federal and local agencies has been very good. The relationship was
characterized by continuity of staff and managers working on the project, both in Mexico and in the
Bank. Minor changes in the Bank staff took place after the first year of implementation and
supervision was done by a new team, which seems to have given fresh vigor to project relationships
and better understanding of the main project constraints. In the management of CNA and IMTA, there
were few changes during the project implementation period and a good understanding seems to have
developed between the Bank missions and the managers in Mexico.
11.02       The relationship between the Bank and the Government was generally a meaningfuil
and productive one. The Bank's relationship with other national agencies was also very cordial. The
Bank had no problem gaining access to the highest level of Government for sector policy dialogue and
for rendering professional advice.
12           Consultant Services
12.01       Consultants, contractors, and suppliers, both local and foreign, generally performed
well. Their perfonnance, both in terms of technical quality and compliance with schedules was very
satisfactory. The Bank reviewed some studies prepared by consultants under CNA and found them
less satisfactory in the areas of financial and sensibility analysis, and in handling alternatives with a least-
cost solution. Such deficiencies improved during project implementation. The consultants were
selected in accordance with procedures approved by the Bank and worked generally in compliance
with their Terms of References which were reviewed by the Bank. Consultants hired by CNA were
useful in providing technical support to OAs in their institutional development programs. CNA, with
the help of consultants, designed and started to implement a monitoring system that reviews the
performance of all agencies that provide water supply and sanitation services in Mexico. Consultants
hired by IMTA were useful in designing the monitoring indicators to evaluate effects of subsequent
training and institutional strengthening, and the designing of operation-maintenance working level
manuals.
13.         Project Documentation and Data
13.01       Project documentation and data included legal documents, the staff appraisal report
(SAR), the mission back-to-office reports, supervision reports, and progress reports provided by the
Borrower. The legal agreements and the SAR were adequately prepared and generally of a
comprehensive nature.
13.02       The SAR was comprehensive, and had a considerable amount of data, which was
useful in monitoring the project and in its assessment at completion. The legal documents comprising
the Loan and Project Agreement and the SAR were detailed, and specified clearly the project



24
components and the action to be taken, which reflected the Bank's interest for the satisfactory
execution of the project. The Borrower's progress reports were submitted with some delays and did
not reflect a complete or timely picture of technical and institutional aspects of the project.
BANOBRAS is in the process of strengthening its management information system, in which the data
for project costs and accounting matters will be integrated to serve as a useful tool for project
management and monitoring in the future. Data required for the preparation of the PCR was
inadequate (incomplete correspondence fles, missing back-to-office and supervision reports, and other
project data) reflecting poor filing practices at the Bank.
14.          Lessons Learned
14.01        The following lessons emerge from the implementation of the project:
(a)    The project could have benefited from  increased beneficiary participation and
ownership.  Sub-projects would have been better adapted to local needs had
beneficiaries been involved in their design. Financing and revenue collection would
have been more efficient had the beneficiary been the primary organizer and investor in
the project. The lack of beneficiary involvement in the project reflects the situation at
the time of project design, when decision-making was alnost exclusively concentrated
at the Federal level.  During the course of project implementation, however,
government policy changed towards increased decentralization in the sector. The Bank
did not make sufficient efforts to insist on the participation of beneficiaries in project
development. This lesson fits with the Bank's worldwide experience, and should
incorporated in the design of all future projects (paras. 4.05, 4.07. 602-6.04 and
7.01).
(b)    BANOBRAS did not monitor or supervise the project adequately. It did not have a
properly-designed Management Information System nor did it devote adequate
resources to supervision. It therefore approved ineligible sub-projects, agreed to
physically and financially unfeasible implementation plans, and continued to fund sub-
projects that were not meeting agreed physical targets and not complying with financial
and other sub-loan covenants. BANOBRAS' progress reports were inadequate both in
terms of quality and regularity, and contained no data on the financial analysis of the
operating agencies. BANOBRAS was not able to tell when projects were running
seriously over-budget and therefore had to re-finance several sub-projects after they
had been completed (paras. 6 02-6. 04, 6. 08, 9.05, 10.02 and 10. 03).
(c)   Inadequate Bank supervision exacerbated both of these problems. It should not have
accepted fast disbursements as sufficient indication that the project was moving well.
The Bank should have realized the inadequacy of BANOBRAS' supervision efforts
and stepped up its own supervision. It would then have discovered that sub-projects
were not in compliance with covenants at a stage when it could have taken action, by,



25
for instance, suspending disbursements. The total lack of financial information tended
to force Bank supervision missions into a role of basic fact-finding rather than of
analysis of results.14 Had these issues come to light earlier, the Bank could have
insisted on remedial action. Bank supervision did not put sufficient emphasis on
beneficiary participation. Increasing supervision focus on visits to the local level would
have helped involve sub-borrowers, fostered a sense of ownership and forced
BANOBRAS and CNA to address the issue in more detail. Projects with a large
number of sub-projects typically require more intensive supervision and greater
emphasis on field visits, especially when they involve politically sensitive changes, as in
this case. The Bank should have acted upon this knowledge.
(d)    The Bank  needs to  track  performance much more closely during  project
implementation to ensure that the Borrower complies with all project covenants. In
this case, the Bank did not discover lack of compliance until 98% of project funds had
been disbursed. The Bank should enforce compliance with covenants and must be able
and willing to suspend disbursements in the case of major institutional problems.
(paras. 9.02 and 10. 03).
(e)    The objectives of the institutional reforms designed to increase financial autonomy at
the municipal and regional level were too broad and insufficiently defined.
Municipalities, OAs, and WUs usually require a well-defined and carefully phased set
of objectives, so that they can properly organize their activities, monitor project
performance and make the necessary changes in the case of shortfalls. Continued
reform of sector policies and institutions is a complex undertaking, subject to changes
in the political climate, and one that the Bank should not expect to complete in the
duration ofjust one project.
(f)    The inability of the Bank to finance the private sector directly in this project without a
Government guarantee precluded private sector investment in sub-projects, despite
strong interest. Given the potential efficiency and financial gains that the private sector
can bring about, its participation should be encouraged to the maximum extent.
Service contracts or management concessions are most suitable for current conditions
in Mexico and the project should have done more to encourage arrangements of this
type (paras. 7.03 and 9. 01).
(g)    Project design should pay particular consideration to the definition of specific
institutional arrangements. One agency should have primary responsibility, and this
should be clear to all agencies involved, in order to avoid rivalries (para.. 6.05). In this
project, institutional rivalries and lack of coordination between BANOBRAS and CNA
'. Bank Experience in Project Supervision. Report No. 10606, April 30, 1992. OED.



26
during project implementation resulted in frequent discussions to determine their
respective responsibilities for implementing the project, and caused delays and neglect
of many important activities (pwa 10. 05).



27
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower's contribution to the PCR was prepared by BANOBRAS. The text below is as received
from the Borrower and its content are not attributable to the Bank. The original report was in Spanish
and has been translated to English and edited to achieve stylistic consistency with Part I.






28
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Table of Contents
I - General Framework of the Water Supply and Sanitation Program ...................................... 29
II - Comments to the PCR ..............................................                                   32
III - Executive Summary ................................................                                  33
IV  - Project Review from  the Borrowers' Perspective ...............................................        40






29
L     General Framework of the Water Supply and Sanitation Program
This docunent presents an evaluation of the progress made in the water supply and sanitation
subsector during the period from 1989-1994, along with the perspective of the Government of Mexico
on the development and implementation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Program carried
o 't during that period and on the Project Completion Report (PCR) from the perspective of the
Borrower.
The actions caried out were part of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Program, which
sought an expansion of services at a rate faster than population growth, institutional building in the
subsector and its financial recovery.
The development of the subsector is reflected in the increase in coverage, as well as in the legal,
administrative and financial improvements at the operating agencies, the development of a new water
culture based on rational use and the protection of resources, and heightened social sector participation
in improving the quality of service.
Implementation of the program required the participation and coordination of the National
Water Commission (CNA), the Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL) and the National
Development Bank for Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS), which are responsible for the
regulatory, programming, financial and managerial aspe-tes of the Soibsector, as well as joint efforts to
strengthen policies and strategies. During this process, measures were taken to improve and streamline
procedures and to increase decentralization with a view to more inimble and autonomous action and
operation within the subsector.
At present, the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Program is one of the most decentralized
with regard to services and infrastructure and it is highly open to participation of the private sector in
the administration and expansion of services. The water supply and sanitation subsector is developing
a market based on the supply of and demand for better products, technology and services that respond
to the needs for investment and development of the agencies with oversight for the services.
Evaluation of Progress in the Subsector.
One of the most pressing needs perceived by Mexico's population at the beginning of the current
administration (1988-1994) was potable water supply. At the time, 21.8% of the population did not
have a formal supply of potable water and 38.4% did not have sanitation services.
The Federal Governnent took various administrative and budgetary measures on an urgent
basis at the national level to address the issue of water supply and sanitation services. In particular:



30
*     In January 1989 the CNA was established as the arm of the Federal Government responsible
for overall water management, which meant changes in the responsibilities and powers of the
entities providing support to the subsector;
*     May 1990 saw the start-up of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Prograrn, through which
policies, strategies and instruments to support development of the subsector were identified;
*     The adaptation and modernization of water legislation, through amendments to the Federal
Water Rights Law. In December 1992 the new National Water Law was published and one
year later its regulations issued;
*     International finance agencies were invited to support the program and supplement investments
in the subsector. In 1991 the Bank agreed to participate in the program through a loan for
US$300 million targeted towards the urban areas, while credits were concluded with the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) for projects in the metropolitan region of Monterrey and
Guadalajara and a sectoral undertaking for medium-size cities, for a total of US$694 million.
Financing was secured with the OECF of Japan to support sanitation operations in the city of
Monterrey for US$100 million.
The policies implemented under the program placed special emphasis on institutional and
structural consolidation of the sector, decentralized management of the program and in particular the
operational and financial improvement of the agencies providing the services.
Federal (SEDUE-SEDESOL, SARH-CNA) and State eiltities alike underwent administrative
and organizational restructuring through the decentralization and deconcentration of services to the
Operating Agencies (OAs). BANOBRAS, the financial institution serving the sector, was also
restructured. The reforms were introduced at all levels of representation and action, and institution
building programs addressed the development of the new tasks and responsibilities.
With a view to improving and strengthening the coordination and cooperation of the various
entities involved in the subsector, State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommnittees were established;
criteria and procedures governing the utilization of funds were standardized through the start-up of the
Resource Mix Scheme and the opening of a single financing window for urban water supply and
sanitation programs in BANOBRAS.
In the metropolitan and rural areas, federal efforts in support of the subsector were consistent
with specific programs in the former case and funding from the Solidarity Program in the latter.
From 1989 to 1994 investments in the subsector were some NPMexl4.5 billion (US$4,150
million), or double the amount invested during the previous period. Most program funds came from
federal and state tax revenue (75%); loans, the equity of the operating agencies and private financing
provided the remaining 25%. International finance organizations provided 17.6% of the total invested
under the program.



31
At the end of 1994, coverage in potable water service will have risen from 78.2% to 87%,
sanitation from 61.6% to 70%, disinfection of water supply from 55% to 95%; the capacity for
wastewater treatment should be four times greater. A total of 16.3 million and 13.7 mnillion inhabitants
will benefit from expanded water supply and sanitation services, respectively.
Progress in institutional building and modernization of the legal framework of the subsector is
reflected in the following results:
*     At the local level, 231 decentralized water operating agencies were established, of which 133
operate in cities of more than 50,000 inhabitants; 90 of those cover their operating and
maintenance costs; 50 are financially self-sufficient and 40 generate resources for the expansion
and improvement of services. At the state level, 31 agencies have been established to cover
areas not served by the municipal systems;
*     Programs focusing on improving the operations of the systems and lowering operating costs
have meant general improvements, as reflected in the reduction of system water losses, lower
consumption of energy and [increase in] service standards.
*     Through an improvement in commercial aspects, the annual aggregate income of the operating
agencies increased by 335% in real terms from 1989-1994;
*     Legal and admninstrative reforms were made in 17 states with a view to the decentralization of
services and the financial self-sufficiency of the operating agencies, along with the promotion of
private and social investment in potable water, sewerage and sanitation systems;
*     From 1989 to 1994, in order to stimulate program implementation and make up for the dearth
of final designs, through CNA 954 studies and projects were carried out involving the
diagnostic aspects, feasibility, design, consolidation, long-term planning for water supply,
sewerage and sanitation projects that supported a large slhare of the investments made initially
and served as a basis for ranking the priority of investments in a second phase. The cost of
these studies represented only 2% of the funds invested, since a hallmark of the prograrn was
its decentralization;
*     With regard to the feasibility studies and master plans, the financial and economic appraisals for
the investment program were based on traditional microeconomic parameters for assessing
project rate of retum, including least-cost analysis of altermatives. For the studies and designs
eligible for extemal financing, the methodology and procedures preferred by each funding
source were used;
*     With regard to training and technical assistance, CNA worked through the Mexican Institute of
Water Technolog (IMTA), providing courses and workshops that trained 5,000 technicians



32
and administrators from more than 200 state and municipal operating agencies, the private
sector and universities;
With regard to private sector participation, through CNA and BANOBRAS, progress has been
made in the formulation of promotion schemes and local authorities are receiving advisory
assistance in service concessioning.
Financing from international finance organizations has been an important tool in the efforts to
effect structural change in the subsector. In particular, Loan .3271-ME from the Bank assisted in
institutional building and consolidation for the participating entities and the beneficiary operating
agencies under the program; competitive bidding procedures weie standardized country-wide and the
studies, feasibility projects and master plans were for the most part consistent with the Bank's
methodological guidelines.
For the Government of Mexico, the benefits achieved through the implementation of the Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Program are highly positive; the structural change in the administration
and operation of services ensures the continuity, strengthening and improvement of water supply,
sewerage and sanitation systems, on new bases of autonomy and self-sufficiency.
The following document provides a general overview of the operations and credit processes
under the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Program from the standpoint of BANOBRAS and
CNA, as borrower and technical agent, respectively, for Loan 3271-ME, and constitutes Part II,
entitled "Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective," of the PCR for the Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project prepared jointly by the Bank, CNA and BANOBRAS.
II.    Comments to the PCR.
A review of Parts I and III of the PCR for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
shows that the document makes a series of categorical assertions that play down the successful and
sound experience of the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program and Loan 3271-ME, in that
they repeatedly criticize the operational aspects and implementation of the program, and only briefly
mention the achievements of its first three years of operation.
Although the program was launched with some gaps in coordination primarily because it was
the first joint program in which BANOBRAS, CNA and SEDESOL were involved, these deficiencies
were gradually cleared up and ultimately such a sound working relationship was established that the
targets set in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were largely exceeded, to such an extent that the sub-
loan program of Loan 3271-ME was totally committed by the first quarter of 1993, instead of the
scheduled date of December 31, 1996.
With regard to the National Training Program, in a lapse of three years 200 courses and
semninars were given in administration, commercial aspects, pollution control and un-metered water and



33
more than half of the targeted personnel were trained within three years, instead of the six years
scheduled.
Importantly, the broad-based participation of beneficiaries made it possible to conclude the sub-
loan program in three years; the operating agencies were granted financing for NPMex46.9 million for
248 studies and engineering designs, some of which will be financed under the Second Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Loan (Loan 3751-ME).
Of all the programs mentioned in Part I of the PCR for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Project, without a doubt supervision of the performance of contractual commitments regarding sub-
loans was the only program not properly completed, owing prinmarily to understaffing on the part of
BANOBRAS for carrying out the activity in full; nevertheless, most of the operating agencies satisfied
the greater part of the contractual conditions, primarily with regard to the annual increase in rates,
thereby consolidating their financial position to such an extent that, despite the current crisis in the
overdue portfolio faced by the other banks, the operating agencies have satisfactorily covered their
amounts due BANOBRAS.
Part I of the PCR does not mention that various Bank credit programs carried out by
BANOBRAS were administered efficiently and responsibly, such that for the Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project the Bank demonstrated confidence in BANOBRAS by delegating to it
decisions on eligibility in connection with the competitive bidding, as well as review of the
documentation supporting the reimbursement of external resources. Moreover, during the supervision
missions carried out by Bank personnel under Loan 3271-ME, no anomalies whatsoever were found
with the competitive bidding and disbursement programs that were worthy of any mention by the
IBRD.
Given the foregoing, it would be appropriate for the Bank to rework Part I of the PCR for the
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, so that it reflects the real performance of that program and
the above-mentioned loan, recognizing that the project was a model of development whose success
would be difficult to equal.
Im.   Executive Summary
1.    Background
With a view to mitigating the severe shortfall in potable water and sewerage services faced by
the great majority of medium-sized cities in the country, as well a; to create the efficient administrative
structure needed for the sound operation of the services, in early 1989 the Federal Government
formulated the Water Supply and Sanitation Program, which was based on three key strategic thrusts:
(a)    Strengthening of the operating agencies of water supply and sanitation systems;
(b)   At the state-level, consolidation of an oversight agency for the sector;



34
(c)    Strengthening of management at the central level.
The program sought to strengthen coordination, consultation and technical assistance, establish
a financial system and reform the legal framework.
In order to best serve the sector, the CNA was established in January 1989 as a deconcentrated
administrative body of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources to address policy priorities
with regard to water resources at the federal, state and municipal levels.
With a view to examining and expanding the financing of water supply, sewerage and sanitation
projects primarily in the metropolitan areas and medium-sized cities, in May 1990 the Federal
Government launched the Urban Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program (Prograna de Agua
Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas - APAZU), which bases its operations on
the general principle of mixed sources of fands. As such, funds come from the federal and state
governments, borrowing and the equity of the operating agencies of the water supply and sanitation
systems.
In support of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Prograrm, the Federal Government and
the Bank prepared the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project through Loan 3271-ME, which was
concluded on February 18, 1991 between the BANOBRAS, as the financial agent of the Federal
Government, and the Bank for the partial financing of that project. The CNA was to serve as the
technical agent of the project and the Ministry of Social Develop)ment (SEDESOL) as the regulatory
entity with regard to budgetary matters.
2.    Project Objectives
The general objectives of the project were to improve the quantity and quality of potable water,
sewerage and sanitation services; support the institutional development of the sector; promote pricing
policies; gradually reduce govermnent subsides; expand service coverage; and improve environmental
conditions in the sector.
3.    Project Implementation
With a view to enhancing project implementation, BAN013RAS, CNA and the former Ministry
of Progranmming and Budget (SPP) and now SEDESOL carried out a deconcentration process of their
regional and state fanctions. The COPLADEs were established within the State Water Supply and
Sanitation Subcommittees as mixed-representation bodies responsible for coordinating the fornulation
of the State Water Supply and Sanitation Program and the corresponding annual operations program.
Through its regional and state offices, CNA provided technical assistance to state and
municipal authorities in the formulation of sub-projects, con3truction, administration, operation,
rehabilitation and conservation of water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems.



35
Through its state branch offices, BANOBRAS oversaw the economic and financial
aspects of the sub-projects and was responsible for the authori,ation, formalization, investment and
recovery of credits.
With a view to enhancing coordination in project implementation, SEDESOL, CNA and
BANOBRAS formulated a Uniform Operations Manual for the implementation of the Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Prograrm, which sets forth the program's objectives, the functions of each
participating entity and applicable regulations, as well as the procedures to be followed.
Given the differing levels of development and national integration, the program used the
municipal marginality indexes defined by the National Population Council in establishing credit
percentages, as well as those for the federal and, state governments and the internally generated cash
inputs of the operating agencies, with a view to constituting the funding mixes for each sub-project.
From the start of the program in 1990, BANOBRAS was the single payment window, in
accordance with the agreement reached with the federal offices involved. This arrangement made
possible proper control of the investments, including their utilization of federal funds, as well as
compliance with the regulations.
With a view to a quantitative and qualitative improvement in water supply, sewerage and
sanitation services, as well as to boost the decentralization of those services, priority was given to
efforts involving the constitution and/or consolidation of municipad, inter-municipal and state operating
agencies, seeking their technical administrative, operational and financial autonomy.
4.    Project Development
In order to promote the use of the resources budgeted for each fiscal year, as well as the
decentralization of actions, an important aspect was that the programming and budgeting functions for
the water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector were carried out within the COPLADEs, through the
State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees.
At December 31, 1993, 2,171 operations had been financed for a total of NPMex3,853.9
million, consisting of 1,722 mixed resource operations totaling NPMex3,269.6 nillion; 201 operations
financed without a credit component totaled NPMex537.4 rnillion. Lastly, 248 studies and final
designs were carried out for NPMex46.9 million.
With regard to the distribution of financing by type of project, the total authorized breaks down
into 1,794 infrastructure operations, of which 1,154 were for water supply, for a total of
NPMexl,928.5 million; 497 projects were for sewerage works totaling NPMexl,033.2 million and 143
for combined water supply and sewerage operations totaling NPMex434.9 million. With regard to
sanitation, 41 projects for construction and/or rehabilitation for the same number of wastewater
treatment plans for a total of NPMex 153.5 rmillion were financed, whereas 336 operations for a total of
NPMex303.8 nillion were approved for consulting services under the consolidation component.



36
From 1990 to December 31, 1993, 3,166 operations involved competitive bidding for civil
works, supplies and consulting services for an amount totaling NPMex2,682.9 million.
During that period, program funds were invested in 5319 localities of the 31 states of the
Republic in efforts to satisfy the needs of the inhabitants with regard to water supply, sewerage and
sanitation.
With regard to the disbursement of the proceeds of Loan 3271-ME at December 31, 1993,
BANOBRAS had received US$278.9 million, representing 93% of the total amount contracted. It is
expected that the loan will be fully disbursed by October 31, 1994
5.    Operating Agencies
In 1990 the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program began operation with 57
operating agencies, of which 20 were state, 34 municipal and 3 inter-municipal; nevertheless, with a
view to attaining the objectives of the program and complying with the eligibility criteria for financing
under the program, from 1990 to 1993 a total of 129 operating agencies were either deconcentrated or
established, bringing the total at December 31, 1993 to 186, of which 155 were decentralized
municipal entities, 22 were established under the state governmenls and 9 were inter-municipal.
The operating agencies were established in accordance with the legal precepts, and the services
of municipal employees with the necessary experience in the provision of water supply and sanitation
services were contracted to run them.
As a result of the institution building of the operating agencies as well as the restructuring of
the water and sewerage rates by the local authorities, in 1993 the operating agencies saw operating
revenue at the national level increase to more than NPMex5 billion, in relation to the NPMex800
million revenue that was collected in 1989.
Moreover, the sound performance of the operating agencies was fundamental to the success of
the program. The agencies did an excellent job in identifying the needs of the population with regard to
water supply and sanitation, formulating engineering designs, presenting their requests to the State
Development Planning Committees (COPLADEs) and managing credits vis-c-vis BANOBRAS.
6.    Sector Coordination
Although the program exceeded the expected results in both quantitative as well as qualitative
terms, it is true that it was not without certain various operating problems, owing to its design within a
framework of decentralization. These problems were overcome through sound coordination among
the various participating entities.



37
With a view to solving the problems that arose during project implementation, the key offices
and institutions involved provided ongoing advisory assistance to their counterpart state agencies and
furnished the necessary training, so that the APAZU regulations wNere fully understood and respected in
accordance with the Uniforrm Operations Manual.
As the executing agency for the Bank loan, BANOBRAS maintained ongoing coordination
with the SEDESOL, to ensure that the budget authorizations were issued on time. Coordination with
the CNA, as the federal regulatory office with regard to the technical aspects of the program, ensured
that program activities were of the expected quality, and that they were consistent with timetables and
with the budget, resulting in optimal utilization of those resources and the provision of water supply
and sanitation services to the beneficiaries.
7.    Institutional Building
With a view to strengthening CNA's and BANOBRAS' intemal operating structures, the two
entities were reorganized to allow for proper running of the prolgrarn, and the requisite personnel for
administering the Water Supply and Sanitation Program were recruited.
In order to ensure the greatest success in project implementation under the decentralized
approach, courses, seminars and workshops were held periodically for both BANOBRAS and CNA
personnel at the central and state level. In some cases, state and municipal authorities and personnel
from the operating agencies also attended, in order to introduce and strengthen the new water policy in
all its aspects.
8.    Coordination with the Bank
Coordination with Bank project officials was characterized by cordial working relationships
that in general were satisfactory; the project also enjoyed broad-based cooperation, as evidenced by the
confidence placed in BANOBRAS through the delegation of decisions on eligibility in the competitive
bidding processes, as well as the review of the documentation supporting the reimbursement of
extemal resources.
9.    Achievements
The achievements of the program implemented by the operating agencies of the water supply
and sanitation systems would include the following:
establishment of the mixed-resource approach which made possible the timely use of
counterpart funds and the establishment of budgeting and programmning mechanisms
with the assistance of the pertinent federal, state and municipal entities;



38
establishment of a single financing and payment window for the sector, which improved
the channeling of resources and resulted in the decentralized implementation of
investments, to the benefit of the borrowers and users;
expansion of coverage of water supply and sanitation services in various localities of
the 31 states, resulting in coverage of 97.6% for water supply and 93.2% for sanitation
services cities with between 50,000 and 100,000 inhabitants. In cities with more than
1,000 inhabitants, coverage [of water supply services] was approximately 97.9% and
sanitation 92. 1%;
improvement in the administration of services, through their consolidation and greater
autonomy, as well as expansion of management and operating capabilities;
increase in national operating revenue, as a result of the rate review and adjustment
through the Boards of the operating agencies, as a result, among other factors, of the
legal changes introduced;
changes to the state legal frameworks, through the formulation of state water laws
providing for the autonomy of the decentralized operating agencies in the provision of
the services. A total of 19 state water laws were finalized and another 8 are in the
pipeline;
gradual elimination of subsidies to water consumption, for domestic as well as
commercial and industrial use;
greater transparency and standardization in competitive bidding for works and/or
services, making resource utilization more efficient;
substantial increase in the number of project beneficiaries, from 3.2 million inhabitants
to 4.5 million, within a three-year period, in comparison with the six years estimated in
the SAR;
substantial headway in institution building of BANOBRAS, CNA, IMTA and the
operating agencies of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems, through
attendance by their staff at courses, seminars, workshops and similar events, as well as
through the acquisition of the necessary equipment for carrying out their objectives and
functions more efficiently;



39
greater confidence on the part of the Bank in BANOBRAS in its capacity as financial
and executing agency, through the delegation of iunctions with regard to decisions on
eligibility for competitive bidding on works and services, as well as in the review of
documentation supporting the reimbursement process under Loan 3271-ME.



40
IV. Project Review from the Borrowers' Perspective
1.    Background
Between 1974 and 1990, the Bank and the Mexican authorities prepared and implemented
three water supply and sewerage sectoral projects, which were financed by the Bank under Loans
1186-ME, 1913-ME and 2281-ME, for a total amount of US$265.3 million.
The projects financed the expansion and improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in
the medium-sized cities of the country (80,000 inhabitants or more), excluding the metropolitan
regions of Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, in accordance with the notion of a more
comprehensive approach. Likewise, actions were financed to support the institution building of the
operating agencies of the systems, which had been recently established.
In the 1980s, owing to the econornic crisis that affected Mexico, the investments that the
country needed in the sector were not made, which exacerbated the backlog and caused the
deterioration of existing infrastructure. In addition, the operating agencies had limited autonomy and
technical capability for administering and operating most of the systems. In early 1990, some 22% of
the population was not connected to a formal water supply system and nearly 38% lacked sewerage
services. 5
Given the above-mentioned circumstances, in early 1989 the Federal Government formulated
the Water Supply and Sanitation Program, which was centered around three basic strategy thrusts:
(a) consolidation of the operating agencies of the water supply and sanitation systems;
(b) consolidation within each state of an agency with oversight for the sector;
(c) strengthening of oversight at the central level.
The Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program also seeks to strengthen coordination,
cooperation and technical assistance, to establish a financial system and to reform the legal framework.
In order to improve services in the sector, in January 1989 the National Water Commission was
established as a deconcentrated administrative body of the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (SARH). Its mission was to focus on the priorities of the water resources policy; streamline
the administration of water resources; facilitate coordination between federal, state and municipal
entities; expand deconcentration; and strengthen consultation.
With a view to examining and expanding financing for water supply, sewerage and sanitation
projects, primarily in the metropolitan areas and medium-sized cities, in May 1990 the Federal
National Water Commission, "Situaci6n del Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento 1993." ("Situation of the
Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Subsector in 1993"), Tables 9 and 10, p. 9.



41
Government established the APAZU, which is based on the general mixed resource approach, which
brings together government and state monies, borrowed funds and the internally-generated resources
of the agencies that operate the water supply and sewerage systems.
In support of the National Water Supply and Sewerage Program, the Federal Government and
the Bank prepared the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project, under Loan 3271-ME, which was
concluded on January 18, 1991 between BANOBRAS, in its capacity as financing agent of the Federal
Government, and the Bank, for the partial financing of that project. CNA was to serve as technical
agent of the project and SEDESOL was to be the regulatory body for budgetary matters.
The APAZU Program is part of the National Solidarity Program and is governed by pertinent
federal legislation, as well as agreements with international finance agencies, with a view to ensuring
maximum efficiency in the use of the resources and the attainment of the objectives. To this end, a
Uniform Operating Manual was formulated jointly by the federal entities in question (SEDESOL,
CNA, BANOBRAS) to standardize the program's development.
Program operation is totally decentralized, although programming and budgeting of works and
actions are carried out at the state level under the pertinent COPLADE, while preparation of studies
and final designs, competitive bidding, contract award and the execution of works and actions are
carried out through the operating agencies. Likewise, the channeling of funds is handled by the state
branch of BANOBRAS in each state.
2.    Project Objectives
The general objectives of the project were to improve the quantity and quality of water supply,
sewerage and sanitation services, support institution building in the sector, promote pricing policies,
gradually reduce government subsides, expand the coverage of services and improve environmental
conditions in the sector.
The specific objectives of the project were to:
(a) reduce subsidies to the sector;
(b) strengthen the national institutional structure, through (i) development of an agency
responsible for monitoring with solid support (CNA); (ii) strengthening of the financial intermediary
(BANOBRAS), with a view to improving its technical experience as financial and executing agency in
order to improve the performance of sub-loans; (iii) participation of the Mexican Institute of Water
Technology (MTA) in the ongoing upgrading of human resources and the development and
implementation of a training program for sector personnel at all levels; and (iv) formulation of a study
on the legal structure and development of model contracts to promote the involvement of the private
sector in the provision of water supply and sanitation services;



42
(c) promote at the state, regional and/or municipal level, the development of appropriately
sized agencies (public or private) with financial and operating autonomy that are capable of efficient
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage systems;
(d) provide by the end of 1994 water supply and sanitation services for some 24 million
additional people, most of whom would be among the poorest segment of the population (the works
financed by the project were expected to benefit some 3.2 million people);
(e) improve environmental conditions through the implementation of a water pollution control
program to: (i) develop, test and fine-tune national policies and regulations governing water pollution
control; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the agencies responsible for the implementation of water
pollution control programs, with special emphasis on operating capacity and compliance with
regulations; (iii) develop a sound program for monitoring water quality and a management information
system for the related activities; and (iv) help ensure that all projects and programs are supported by
measures to lessen the environmental impact.
3.    Project Implementation
With a view to improving project implementation, BANOBRAS, CNA and the formner
Ministry of Programming and Budget (SPP) -- now the Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL)
took steps to deconcentrate their functions to the regional and state level. Thus, the State Water
Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees were established within the COPLADEs, as the mixed-
representation bodies responsible for coordinating the formulation of the State Water Supply and
Sewerage Program and the pertinent annual operating program. Likewise, the Subcommittee analyzes
and, if appropriate, approves the investment proposals submitted to it, in accordance with the
established priorities, and subsequently monitors the utilization of resources and evaluates the results.
Through its regional and state offices, CNA provides technical assistance to the state and
municipal authorities in the formulation of sub-projects, construction, administration, operation,
rehabilitation and conservation of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems. It also decides on
the eligibility of sub-projects.
Through its state branch offices, BANOBRAS makes an economic and financial appraisal of
sub-projects and is responsible for the authorization, formalization, investment and recovery of loans.
It also monitors compliance with the contractual conditions in accordance with the regulations
established for the program.
In order to improve coordination in project implementation, SEDESOL, CNA and
BANOBRAS formulated a Uniform Operating Manual for the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation
Program, which sets forth the program's objectives, the powers of each participating entity and
applicable regulations, and the procedures to be followed.



43
Given the different levels of development and national integration, the program adopted the
municipal marginality indexes defined by the National Population Council for setting loan percentages,
as well as those for the federal and state inputs and those internally generated by the operating
agencies, with a view to constituting the funding mixes for each sub-project. The idea was to provide
equitable support to the various localities with needs in water supply, sewerage and sanitation services
by recognizing the different socioeconomic conditions prevailing in each of them.
With a view to bringing a greater number of local communities into the program and expanding
the benefits to the population, it was agreed to include those where -- despite -- a high marginality
index -- financing was possible owing to the creditworthiness of the population.
Given the degree to which needs were met with regard to water supply, sewerage and
sanitation, as well as the strengthening of the operating agencies themselves, beginning in 1993 changes
were made to the policy for putting together finding mixes; in areas with more than 80,000 inhabitants,
financing for water supply and primary treatment plans with 100% of borrowed funds and intemally
generated resources was introduced, while sewerage/sanitation projects and actions to strengthen the
operating agencies were financed 100% by federal and state funds. Secondary treatment plans were
financed through additional funding from the private sector.
From the start of the program in 1990, BANOBRAS was the single payment window, in
accordance with the agreement reached by the federal entities involved and described in the Uniform
Operating Manual so that the actions to be carried out under the program would comply with the
established eligibility criteria and regulations. This has pernitted proper monitoring of the investments,
including their utilization of federal funds, as well as compliance with regulations regarding public
competitive bidding and eligibility, for both projects and repayments of borrowed external resources.
With a view to optimizing the development of the program through the identification of priority
projects, generation of studies and final designs and in general to resolution of any problems that rnight
arise during project implementation, SEDESOL, CNA and BANOBRAS established an inter-
institutional working group that meets weekly and attends the meetings of the State Water Supply and
Sanitation Subcommittees.
With a view to the quantitative and qualitative improvement of the water supply, sewerage and
sanitation services provided by the operating agencies, as well as to further the decentralization of
those services, emphasis was placed on actions involving the establishment and/or strengthening of
municipal, inter-municipal and state operating agencies with technical, administrative, operational and
financial autonomy.
4.    Project Development
Owing to its unique design, at the outset the program ran into various problems that directly
affected its development. These would include:



44
(a)   Nonexistence or limited number of feasibility studies and final designs in some of the states that
were able to lead ultimately to works, as well as the atomization of projects to the detriment of
broad-based works and/or actions;
(b)   Inadequate programming of works implementation by the operating agencies, resulting in
increased outflow of resources in the last weeks of each fi:cal year.
With a view to addressing those problems, a portfolio of final designs for comprehensive
projects was established, through which credit and technical support was provided to the state and
municipal governmnents and their decentralized operafing agencies in order to avoid atomization to the
detriment of the projects. Using funding from the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program,
from 1990 to 1993 BANOBRAS financed 248 operations for a total of NPMex46.9 million that was
used in the formulation of studies and final designs.
Likewise, with a view to promoting the use of budgeted finds in each fiscal year, as well as the
decentralization of actions, emphasis was placed on carrying out programming and budgeting for the
water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector within the COPLADEs, through the State Water Supply
and Sewerage Subcommittees.
Of the operations supported by the program, at December 31, 1993, a total of 2,171 sub-
projects had been financed for a total of NPMex3,853.9, consisting of 1,722 operations with a funding
mix for a total of NPMex3,269.6 rnillion; 201 operations without a credit component for a total of
NPMex537.4 million; and 248 studies and projects for NPMex46.9 million (Table 1).
Funding for the financing of the authorized operations included NPMexl,403 million in federal
contributions, NPMex987.9 in state funds; NPMexl.359.6 millicn in credit operations and
NPMex:O3.5 million in direct contributions from the operating agencies, through their internally
generated cash flow (Table 1).
In terms of the breakdown of financing by type of project, the total authorized breaks down
into 1,794 infrastructure operations, of which 1,154 were for water supply, at a cost of NPMexl,928.5
million; 497 sewerage projects for NPMexl,033.2 million and 143 combined water supply and
sewerage operations for NPMex434.9 billion. For sanitation, there were 41 operations for the
construction and/or rehabilitation of a like number of wastewater treatment plants, for a total of
NPMex153.5 million, while for the consolidation program 336 operations accounted for NPMex303.8
million (Table 1).
With regard to competitive bidding, both BANOBRAS and CNA sponsored various regional
training courses at the national level, with a view to training the staff of the operating agencies as well
as the BANOBRAS state offices and CNA regional and state branch offices in the implementation and
operation of program procedures governing competitive bidding fbr works, supplies or the contracting
of consulting services.



45
Moreover, from the outset of the program the Bank demonstrated great confidence by
delegating to BANOBRAS decisions on eligibility regarding competitive bidding, which expedited
program operations, since in the past the procedure involved sending the briefs and bidding documents
to Bank headquarters in Washington, D.C. for review and approval, which took longer and delayed
the start-up of the works or actions financed, in addition to pushing up their cost.
Between 1990 and December 31, 1993, 3,166 invitations to tender were issued for works,
supplies and consulting services, representing a total of NPMex2,6 82.9 million.
Competitive Bidding for Works, Supplies and Consulting Services 1990-1993
(NPMex million)
Competitive bidding   Water supply    Sewerage    Water supply      Sanitation    Consulting services
sewerage
Year  No.   Aant    No.    Amnt    No.   Amt    No.       Amnt    No.    Amt         No.      Amnt
1990  624   525.7   470     382.1   111   91.6      22      40.7     0       0.0        21      11.3
1991  725   713.7   430     490.8   110  136.8      14      23.3   10       25.6        161     37.2
1992  858   730.2   396     345.8   235  269.1      25      51.3     5       15.0       197     49.0
1993  959   713.3   307     258.1   261  302.2      44      61.3     8       19.1       339     72.6
Total  3166   2682.9  1603   1476.8   717  799.7    105    176.6   23       59.7       718    170.1
4.1    Water Supply Operations
With regard to water supply, from 1990 to December 31, 1993, BANOBRAS granted 1,154
loans for a total of NPMexI,928.4 million for the construction, expansion and rehabilitation of water
supply systems, which expanded water supply coverage in towns with 50,000 to 100,000 inhabitants to
97.5% and in towns with more than 100,000 inhabitants to some 98% (Table 1).
With regard to the competitive bidding for works and services in connection with water supply
sub-projects, 1,603 invitations to tender were issued for a total of NPMexl,476.9 million, of which 470
were in 1990, 430 in 1991, 396 in 1992 and 307 in 1993 (Table 2).
4.2    Sewerage Operations
During the period under review, 497 operations were financed for a total of NPMex 1,033.2
million for the construction, expansion and rehabilitation of sewerage systems, following which
coverage of this service was increased in localities with between 50,000 and 100,000 inhabitants to
93.2% and in localities with more than 100,000 inhabitants to approximately 92.1% (Table 1).
Under this component, 717 invitations to tender were issued for works and services, for a total
of NPMex799.7 million, of which 111 were in 1990, 110 in 1991, 235 in 1992 and 261 in 1993 (Table
2).



46
The increase in the number of invitations to tender in the last two years was due to the need to
improve and expand sewerage infrastructure and serve a greater number of inhabitants with a view to
reducing current coverage shortfalls and the negative environmental impacts.
4.3    Combined Water Supply and Sewerage Operations
For combined water supply and sewerage operations, 14.3 loans were made for NPMex434.9
million for system construction and expansion. The joint projects were undertaken in localities lacking
both services (Table 1).
With regard to competitive bidding for works and services, 105 invitations to tender were
issued for a total of NPMexl76.6 million, of which 22 were in 1990, 14 in 1H;)1, 25 in 1992 and 44 in
1993 (Table 2).
4.4    Sanitation Operations
With regard to operations to reduce negative environmental impacts and protect the
environment, BANOBRAS financed 41 operations for a total of NPMexl53.5 million for the
construction, expansion and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants. This helped in the gradual
cleaning up of the major watersheds in the country, as well as in the prevention of water pollution
(Table 1).
The competitive bidding for works and services required by the sanitation component involved
23 invitations to tender for NPMex59.7 million, of which 10 were in 1991, 5 in 1992 and 8 in 1993
(Table 2).
4.5   Institution Building
With regard to institution building of the operating agencies of the water supply, sewerage and
sanitation systems, during the period under review BANOBRAS financed 336 operations for a total of
NPMex303.7 million for the promotion of operating and financial self-sufficiency and development of a
technical and administrative structure aiming at maximum efficiency in the provision of services.
Concurrently, assistance was to be provided in establishing a pricing policy that would make it possible
to attain the objectives of the component (Table 1).
For this component, 718 invitations to tender were issued for consulting services and
acquisitions for a total of NPMexl70.1 million, of which 21 were in 1990, 161 in 1991, 197 in 1992
and 339 in 1993 (Table 2).
The competitive bidding held for contracts to strengthen the operating agencies involved the
acquisition of computer equipment and information systems, the preparation of organizational manuals
and subscriber registry control studies (estudios de control de pad-ones), as well as the purchase,



47
among other items, of equipment for micrometering, leakage detection and laboratory equipment for
repair of the micrometering equipment.
The operations described above saw the use of program lbnds in 539 localities in the 31 states
of the Republic during the period in question, helping to satisfy needs in water supply, sewerage and
sanitation. Moreover, program beneficiaries included 186 operating agencies, 123 municipal
governments, 14 state governments and 3 state housing and community development entities.
With regard to disbursements of Loan 3271-ME, at December 31,1993 BANOBRAS had
received US$278.9 million, which represented 92.9% of the total contracted, and it was expected that
the loan would be fully disbursed by October 1994.
5.    Operating Agencies (OAs)
As of 1990, the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program began its operations with 57
OAs, of which 20 were state, 34 municipal and 3 inter-municipal. Nevertheless, with a view to meeting
program objectives, in accordance with the eligibility criteria for financing through the program, from
1900 to 1993 a total of 129 operating agencies were deconcentrated and/or established, bringing the
total at December 31, 1993 to 186, of which 155 were decentralized municipal entities, 22 state and 9
inter-municipal.
The OAs were established in accordance with legal guidelines, and municipal employees with
the necessary experience in water supply and sewerage services were engaged to run them. However,
the administrative personnel recruited did not have the requisite experience. In order to resolve the
admninstration problems encountered by the operating agencies, CNA and IMTA formulated the
National Training Program, through which more than 200 courses and seminars were given in the
following areas: (i) administration; (ii) commnercial aspects; (iii) pollution contriu, (iv) un-metered
water.
The operating agencies were consequently able to satisfy their needs and contractual
commitments with BANOBRAS, as reflected in a marked improvement in 1993 in both income as well
as administrative capability, as a result of the courses given by LMTA and supervised by CNA. Another
positive factor was the restructuring of water rates by the local authorities, which resulted in an
increase of more than 500% in their operating revenue at the national level and which, following the
revision and adjustment in rates promoted through their Boards and the legal changes, meant that more
than NPMex5,000 million was collected, when in 1989 receipts had been some NPMex800 million.
The good performance of the operating agencies was also key to the sound development of the
program, as they did an excellent job in identifying the needs of the population with regard to water
supply and sewerage, formulating the final designs, bringing their requests to the COPLADE and
managing the financing with BANOBRAS.



48
Although the demand for water supply and sewerage services is very extensive at the national
level and even though many projects could not be financed under the program owing to the scarcity of
counterpart resources, sector shortages were significantly reduced. The continuation and strengthening
of the program will ensure that the remaining deficiencies are addressed and that the increased demand
generated by the natural growth of the cities and their population is satisfied.
6.    Sectoral Coordination
Although the program achieved and exceeded the targeted results in both quantitative and
qualitative terms, it certainly was not without problems in its implementation, owing to its
decentralization-based design. The problems were resolved through appropriate coordination arnong
the participating entities, which with a view to resolving the problems encountered during project
implementation, provided ongoing advisory assistance to their state branches and provided the
necessary training so that the regulations would be fully understood and implemented in accordance
with the Uniform Operating Manual.
As the executing agency for the Bank loan, BANOBRAS maintained ongoing coordination
with the Ministry of Social Development to ensure that the budget authorizations were issued on time,
sutch that the flow of federal, state, borrowed and internally-generated cash resources provided the
operating agencies with sufficient funds to implement the works and actions planned by the State Water
Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees.
The coordination between BANOBRAS and the CNA in its capacity as the regulatory federal
entity for the technical aspects of the program, enabled the operations carried out with program
resources to be implemented with the required quality, within schedule and budget, thereby pernitting
optimal use of those resources and the provision of water supply and sewerage services to the
beneficiaries.
7.    Institutional Building
With a view to the strengthening of the internal operating structure of CNA and BANOBRAS
so that they could administer the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Program, the institutions
were reorganized to allow for proper running of the prograrn and the requisite personnel were
recruited.
In 1990 BANOBRAS established the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Financing
Department with a staff of 28. Its primary function was to coordinate program operation and
monitoring at the national level.
With a view to maximum success in project implementation under the decentralized approach,
courses, seminars and workshops were given periodically for BANOBRAS and CNA central and state
personnel. In some cases, state and municipal authorities and personnel from the operating agencies
also attended, with a view to introducing and strengthening the new water policy in all its concepts.



49
From the outset of the program, BANOBRAS linked its control and monitoring to the
Development Credit System (SICREF) with a view to managing the credit process for the financing
involved, as well as the payments made with program funds to contractors, suppliers and consultants.
The SICREF operates in a totally decentralized fashion, as recorcls are kept by the BANOBRAS state
office on the sub-loans concluded with the operating agencies, invitations to tender and the contracting
of works, supplies and consulting services, as well as the payments, made to contractors.
During the preparation mission for the Second Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
Project with the Bank in July 1993, Bank officials indicated the need to improve program monitoring
and evaluation through the establishment of a management information system, the main advantage of
which would be to obtain more precise information on project progress and the management of the
operating agencies. As the system will begin to operate with the Second Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Sector Project, the necessary steps in the design and development of the computer program
have been taken. Moreover, progress has been made in giving the computer classes needed by
BANOBRAS personnel with a view to optimizing their personnel tasks and standardizing the work
methodology.
8.    Coordination with the Bank
Coordination with project officials from the Bank wa; maintained on a very cordial and
professional basis which in general terms can be considered satisfactory, inasmuch as the project
benefited from extensive cooperation, as reflected in the confidence placed in BANOBRAS by making
it responsible for deciding on eligibility under the competitive bidding processes as well as the review of
documentation in connection with the reimbursement of external resources.
Nevertheless, certain aspects had a negative impact on project development, such as the fact
that at the start of the program only 10% of the proceeds of L)an 3271-ME (US$30 million) were
made available to cover retroactive expenditures. As a result, some US$20 million in expenditures in
compliance with the regulations was excluded from disbursement, which shifted the burden of the loan
to the detriment of the Federal Government.
Another aspect that had a negative impact on project development was that Bank missions
included personnel who were unfamiliar with the APAZU prograra and even the project, which caused
delays in implementation, and even more importantly, in the start-up of preparation, appraisal and
negotiation of the Second Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project, since such personnel
did not have the necessary background or knowledge of previous agreements. Among other effects,
this was reflected in an inability to respond to the pace and rhythm of prograrn operation.
Another aspect is that Bank staff made agreements Aith the technical agent, without so
informing BANOBRAS as the executing agency and borrower of the Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Sector Project, which made it difficult to monitor and carry out the terms of those
agreements.



50
9.    Achievements
Below are the results obtained through the implementation and development of the program to
the benefit of the water supply and sewerage systems operating agencies:
*     Establishment of the mixed-resource scheme, which made counterpart resources available in a
timely fashion, estabEshment of budgeting and programming mechanisms with the assistance of
the pertinent Federal, State and Municipal entities, whereby the investments had a multiplier
effect and a greater impact and reach;
*     Establishment in BANOBRAS of the single financing and payment window for the sector,
facilitating the channeling of resources and decentralization of investments, to the benefit of the
borrowers and users;
*     Expansion in the coverage of water supply and sewerage services in various cities throughout
the 31 states in the country; in cities with 5,000 to 100,000 inhabitants coverage reached
97.6% for water supply and 93.2% for sewerage services, while in cities with a population
greater than 100,000 inhabitants coverage was approximately 97.9% [for water supply] and
92.1% for sewerage services;
Improvement in the administration of services, through tlhe consolidation and strengthening of
the autonomy of the operating agencies, as well as an increase in their management and
implementation capabilities;
*     Increase of more than 500%/o in operating revenue at the national level, following the review
and adjustment of rates through the Boards of the operating agencies, as a result, among other
aspects, of the legal changes. This increase has meant a total of slightly more than NPMex5
billion for 1993, in comparison with the NPMex800 million collected in 1989;
*     Changes to the legal framework at the state level, through the formulation of state water laws
that facilitate the autonomy of the decentralized operating agencies in the provision of services.
A total of 17 state water laws were revised and another 8 are now in the process;
*     Gradual elimination of subsidies for water supply consurnption, for both domestic as well as
commercial and industrial use;
*     Establishment of 129 new operating agencies decentralized from the state and municipal
govemments that have been accredited by the program. At December 31, 1993, there were
186 agencies, of which 155 were decentralized municipal entities, 22 decentralized state entities
and 9 inter-municipal;



51
*     Greater transparency and standardization of the competitive bidding processes for works
and/or supplies, making the utilization of resources more efficient, in addition to compliance by
the operating agencies with the competitive bidding guidelines for the program;
*     Increase in the channeling of resources for both water purification and wastewater treatment,
which lowered the risk of the development of infection centers and unhealthy public places in
various cities of the country, as well as pollution of the water tables;
*     Substantial exceeding of the targeted number of users benefited by the project, which was 3.2
million inhabitants as against the 4.5 million achieved within a three-year period, as compared
to the six years estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR);
*     Incentives for private sector involvement in the provision of services, primarily with regard to
the sanitation component;
*     Substantial progress in the institutional strengthening of BANOBRAS, CNA, IATA and the
operating agencies of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation systems, through attendance
by their staff at courses, seminars, workshops and sirrilar events, as well as through the
acquisition of the necessary equipment for carrying out their objectives and functions more
efficiently,
*     Greater confidence by the Bank in BANOBRAS in its capacity as financial agent and executing
agency, through the delegation of functions with regard to decisions on eligibility for
competitive bidding for works and supplies, as well as the review of documentation related to
reimbursements under Loan 3271-ME, which meant efficient and more rapid implementation
of the project, a finction that was carried out in a totally responsible manner and achieved
admirable results.



Table 1
URBAN WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROGRAM
Financing Authorized at December 31, 1993
(in thousands of NPMex)
I__________       SOURCE OF FUNDS
NO. OF                                               INTERNALLY
STATE            OPERATIONS  FEDERAL       STATE         CREDIT       GENERATED   TOTAL
TOTAL                    2171   1,402,995.20    987,884.20   1,359,604.70    103,457.50    3,853,941.80
Aguascalientes             53      39,841.80    39,841.70     45,999.10                 125,682.60
Baja Califorria           118      71,765.10    68,337.40    145,896.60                 285,999.10
Baja Calif.Sur            123      19,373.60    12,950.00     21,793.40     2,839.30     56,956.30
Campeche                   27      28,369.40    21,842.50     27,413.60                  77,625.50
Coahuila                   13       5,395.40     6,310.00     10,180.80                  21,886.20
Colima                     30      25,642.30    17,805.50     16,582.50       162.4      60,192.70
Chiapas                    62    102,893.80     65,730.00     68,999.60     6,166.40    243,789.80
Chihuahua                  24      12,746.10    12,359.90      5,317.80         891      31,314.80
Durango                    29      21,814.70    15,081.20     15,792.90                  52,688.80
Guanajuato                214    100,027.10     66,888.50     77,014.20    16,338.70    260,268.50
Guerrero                   24      52,645.10    19,767.40     31,585.50     3,582.60    107,580.60
Hidalgo                    38      23,436.70    15,276.50      8,908.00       340.3      47,961.50
aJlisco                    88      91,344.20    91,344.40    146,231.30    24,440.50    353,360.40
Mexico                    237    175,787.90     91,636.10    211,062.10                 478,486.10
Michoacan                 112      55,129.50    27,788.10     44,870.30                 127,787.90
Morelos                    55      16,994.70    11,726.20     17,405.30     3,198.30     49,324.50
Nayarit                    40      16,174.10     9,982.30     12,183.60                  38,340.00
Nuevo Leon                 95      54,987.10    55,315.50     73,423.30    18,644.30    202,370.20
Oaxaca                    102      38,834.90     2,604.60     36,145.70                  77,585.20
Puebla                    124      40,997.20    25,264.10     37,063.70                 103,325.00
Queretaro                  32      10,256.20     5,966.10      6,913.80       314.5      23,450.60
Q. Roo                     35      29,348.00    11,648.70      3,020.40     1,472.00     45,489.10
San Luis Potosi            30      19,812.90    11,273.60     17,253.90                  48,340.40
Sinaloa                    29      26,034.30    16,357.50     38,487.10     4,321.90     85,200.80
Sonora                    131      72,249.80    71,247.30     97,437.60       681.1     241,615.80
Tabasco                    33      42,783.20    29,457.70     28,068.20     3,186.40    103,495.50
Tamaulipas                 82      53,147.10    35,120.20     37,599.40     4,426.20    130,292.90
Tlaxcala                  103      18,671.60     9,708.10     13,246.30     5,082.40     46,708.40
Veracruz                   46    100,401.80     97,860.50     37,164.50     6,123.80    241,550.60
Yucatan                    32      24,417.80    14,421.60     19,005.40       348.5      58,193.30
Zacatecas                  10      11,671.80     6,971.00      7,538.80       896.9      27,078.50
Includes financing in preparation, Implementation, recovery, and after closure.



Table 2
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR FINANCING DEPARTMENT
Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Program
Competive Bidding 1990-1993
(in thousands of NPMex)
STATE           INVITATIONS TO TENDER                                        TYPE OF OPERATION
AMOUNT                                        WS/S
___________ NO. %         CONTRACTED WS   AMOUNT    SEW  AMOUNT  EW   AMOUNT   SANITATION AMOUNT CONSOLIDATION AMOUNT
Aguascalientes   87  2.75      89,248.49   41   23,080.32   14  52,903.25    1     306.60         2  4,274.89            29   8,683.4
Baja Caliornia  125  3.95    217,215.01    74  152,284.02   38  54,089.00    2    1,311.95        2  7,215.13             9   2,314.91
Baja Cal. Sur    84  2.65      54,671.78   41   20,360.59   24  22,065.72    1     154.14         1 8,454.60             17  3,636.73
Campeche         47  1.48      54,227.80    23   25,183.63    4  21,103.31    1    648.65         0        0             19  7,292.21
Chiapas          106  3.35    162.838.24   31  114,094.98    6  25,218.52    2   14,824.43        0        0             67   8,700.31
Chihuahua         10  0.32      5,702.41    5    2,928.01    5   2,774.40    0          0         0        0              0         0
Coahuila         47  1.48      23,010.17    28   12,517.65   14   6,063.70    2    2,811.22       0        0              3   1,617.60
Colima           58  1.83      37,321.70    20   20,508.85   28  10,042.02    1     39.68         3  4,122.46             6   2,608.69
Durango          111  3.51     49,096.48    55   24,963.84   30   9,600.59    7    1,637.83       1  8,5T7.25            18  4,316.9
Guanajuato      435 13.74    203,664.77   222  112,115.37  108  65,102.45   14    9,338.00        0        0             91  17,108.95
Guerrero         45  1.42    104,451.26   33   98,656.50    1   1,308.92    0          0          0        0             11  4,485.84
Hidalgo          51  1.61      27,790.27    17    9,674.99    6   7,254.68    0        0          0        0             28  10,860.        n
Jalisco          146  4.61    251,108.50    58   88,652.47   17  13,987.75   58  134,741.49       5  8,204.47             8   5,522.32
Mexico          301  9.51    255,008.59   198  128,946.57   58 114,826.48    1     301.30         0        0             44  10,934.2
Michoacan        75  2.37    111,603.90    56   94,313.62   13  15,737.72    0         0          0        0              6   1,552.5
Morelos          50  1.58      24,462.22   35   14,176.25    6   8,996.21    0         0          0        0              9   1,289.7
Nayarit         115  3.63      35,449.05    35    8,348.69   17  19,052.81    4    2,905.84       0        0             59   5,141.71
Nuevo Leon      240  7.58    132,392.65   119   66,197.48  113  64,029.27    1     238.96         1   499.98              6   1,426.96
Oaxaca           92  2.91      41,669.28   41   22,988.11   12   9,038.67    0         0          0        0             39   9,642.50
Puebla          141  4.45      87,053.83    58   50,199.10   13  16,395.47    2    562.20         2  5,506.76            66  14,390.30
Queretaro        65  2.05      22,385.50    48   16,908.26    9   3,016.39    0        0          0        0              8   2,460.85
Quintana Roo     15  0.47      15,404.50    9    7,106.63    5   4,075.40    0         0          1  4,222.47             0
San Luis Potosi  37  1.17      33,704.56    24   20,968.42    1    575.97    2    5,258.79        2  5,201.52             8   1,699.86
Sinaloa         39  1.23      57,318.87   24   48,878.71    5   5,068.46    6    1,483.69        0        0              4   1,888.01
Sonora          213  6.73    179,730.62   99  113,000.24   55  45,525.24    0          0          1  2,418.00            58  18,787.1
Tabasoo         84  2.65      61,721.07    23    9,117.24   49  49,443.16    0        0          0        0             12  3,160.67
Tamaulipas      61  1.93      91,271.86   28   30,385.96   31  60,593.41    0          0         0        0              2    292.49
Tbxcab       109  3.44      35,978.28   100   33,337.46    3   1,273.06    0         0         1   697.11              5    670.65
Veracruz       115  3.63    153,931.74   20   54,172.49   28  88,079.80    0          0          0        0             67  11,679.45
Yucatn          29  0.92      43,255.51   21   40,433.62    0         0    0          0          1   338.73              7   2,483.1
33  1.04     20,235.73    17   12,284.54    4   2,486.05    0         0          0       0             12   5,485.14
TOTAL           3166   100   2,682,924.64  1603 1,476,784.61  717 799,727.88  105  176,564.77     23 59,733.37          718 170,114.01



Table 3
URBAN WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROGRAM
Financing Authorized at December 31, 1993-
fin thousands of NPMex)
________________________    INFRASTRUCTURE
NO. OF OPERATIONS FINANCED             AMOUNT OF FINANCING                     SANITATION             CONSOLIDATION                TOTAL
NO. OF                 NO. OF                   NO. OF
WS/                                                          OPERATIONS              OPERATIONS               OPERATIONS
STATE            WS   SEW  SEW  SUBTOTAL WS            SEW         WSI SEW   SUBTOTAL    FINANCED      AMOUNT   FINANCED       AMOUNT    FINANCEO        AMOUNT
TOTAL             1154  497  143       1794 1.928,457.70 1,033,239.60 434,931.70  3,396,629.00      41 153,547.10          336  303,768.50          2171 3,053,941.60
Aguancaliente       25   15    1        41   27,468.40   17,662.70     278.70    45,409.80           5  69,453.20            7   10,819.60            53  125,682.60
Baja Califomia      70   36    3        109  201,063.70   66,332.30   9,704.10   277,100.10           5   7,496.00           4    1,403.00           118  2865,999.10
Baja Calif.Sur      68   30             98   27,186.20   23,633.00               50,819.20            1     991.9           24    5,145.20           123   56,956.30
Campeche            19    3              22   61,643.90    6,799.30              68,443.20                                   5    9,182.30            27   77,626.50
Coahuila             4          9       13    1,167.30              20,718.90    21,886.20                                                            13   21,886.20
Colima               9   17    2         28   36,254.10   17,727.60   3,349.50    57,331.20                                  2    2,861.50            30   60,192.70
Chiapas             32    3   18        53  188,065.00   16,493.70  23,068.90   227,627.60                                   9   16,162.20            62  243,789.80
Chihuahua            6   11             17    9,479.00   18,503.40               27,982.40                                   7    3,332.40            24   31,314.80
Durango             13    3    5         21   27,833.20    8,650.40   6,058.70    42,542.30           2   2,624.10           6    7,522.40            29   52,688.80
Guanajuato         III   60            171  113,558.60   91,063.70              204,622.30                                  43   55,646.20           214  260,268.50
Guerrero            17          1        18   99,117.70              4,282.70   103,400.40                                   6    4,180.20            24  107,580.60
Hidalgo             18    7    2         27   18,892.20   10,486.70   4,434.20    33,813.10                                 11   14,148.40            38   47,961.50
Jalisco             28   16   34         78   28,413.30   37,103.30 266,864.60   332,381.20           6  15,202.20           2    5,770.00            88  353.300.40
Mexico             115   58    7        180  280,495.90  175,822.90   6,309.10   462,627.90                                 57   15,858.20           237  478,486.10
Michoacan           74   12             86   93,229.40   15,469.10              108,698.50                                  26   19,089.40           112  127,787.90   U
Morelos             24   12    1        37   20,044.10   16,958.70   1,500.00    38,502.80            2   4,168.40          16    6,653.30            55   49,324.50  .>
Nayarit              5   10    6         21    2,148.10   13,297.60   1,827.00    17,272.70           2  11,169.10          17    9,898.20            40   38,340.00
Nuevo Leon          43   32   11        86   78,436.90   57,879.90  29,915.20   166,232.00            6  20,156.00           3   15,982.20            95  202,370.20
Oaxaca              74   13              87   42,109.90   17,440.00              59,549.90                                  15   18,035.30           102   77,585.20
Puebla              74   26    4        104   54,237.00   18,696.80   7,555.00    80,488.80           2   5,941.80          18   16,894.40           124  103,325.00
Oueretaro           21    6    2        28   14,794.50    1,226.10   4,729.00    20,749.60                                   4    2,701.00            32   23,450.60
Q. Roo              25    7              32   12,900.10   28,809.90              41,710.00            2   3,317.50           1      461.60            35   45,489.10
San Luls Potosi     10    2   13         25   21,781.10    2,318.20  14,064.30    38,163.60           1   8.000.00           4    2,176.80            30   48,340.40
Slnaloa             18    5    3        26   70,640.80    6,082.80     397.60    77,121.20                                   3    8,079.60            29   86,200.80
Sonora              76   45    1        122  149,976.90   70,344.10    826.10   221,147.10            1   2,500.00           8   17,968.70           131  241,615.80
Tabasco             16   12    1         29   19,034.70   77,972.90   3,210.00   100,217.60                                  4    3,277.90            33  103,496.50
Tamaullpas          33   32    2        67   53,820.90   67,673.60   4,041.20   125,535.70                                  15    4,757.20            82  130,292.90
Tlaxcala            80    4   13        97   37,281.70    2,303.30   1,166.30    40.751.30            2   1,125.60           4    4,831.50           103   46,708.40
Veracruz            23   20    2        45   72,525.70  146,072.70  11,952.20   230,550.60                                   1   11,000.00            46  241,550.60
Yucatan             21                   21   52,927.60                          52,927.60            1     401.3           10    4,864.40            32   68,193.30
Zacatecas            2    1    2          6   11,929.80      414.9   8.678.40    21,023.10            1   1,000.00           4    5,055.40            10   27,078.50
* Includes financing in the different stages of fonmalization, Investment, recuperation and settlement



55 -                                Annex 1
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
PART HI STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans
Loan              Year of      Amount                 Description                        Status
Approval  US$million
Mexico City Water Supply    1973       $90          Improve water quality and quantity    Completed June 1981.
Project (0909-ME)                                   and treat wastewater for reuse      Amount canceled US$11.8
million. PCR No. M83-
0765, June 30, 1983
Medium Cities Water         1975       $40          Establish and implement policies for  Completed January 1984.
Supply and Sewerage                                 the national water supply and       Amount canceled US$0.2
Project (1186-ME)                                   sewerage sector (WSS) and improve   million. PCR No. M92-
sector institutional structure.     1601, December 31, 1992
Second Medium-Size Cities   1980       $125         Support decentralization of         Completed November 1986.
Water Supply and Sewerage                           population and economy through      Amount canceled US$49.3
Project (1913-ME)                                   improved WSS services to medium-   million. PCR No. M92-
size cities and sector organization  1601, December 31, 1992
through transformation of local
WSS entities operated by Federal
and Municipal Government into
autonomous financially viable
companies. Expand services levels
in five medium-size cities through
construction of heterogeneous
subprojetcs.
Third Medium-Size Cities    1983       $100.3       Support decentralization of         Completed December 1990.
and Sinaloa State Water                             p. - ,ulation and economy trough    Amount canceled US$5.0
Project (2281-ME)                                   improved WSS services to medium-   million. PCR No. M92-
size cities and improve institutional   1601, December 31, 1992
capacity of federal agencies.
Expand service levels in four
medium-size cities through
construction of heterogeneous
subprojects.
Water, Women, and           1989       $20          Improve living standards of low-    Total loan amount was
Development Project (3101-                          income groups.                      canceled before effectiveness
ME)                                                                                     by request of Government.
PCM No. 4623 June 21,
1991



- 56
Annex 2
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Project Timetable
Item.. .........        DaWtePanned:':        Date iReivised:          Date Actual
Identification                                                   November 4, 1988
Preparation                                                      February 24, 1989
Appraisal               June 12, 1990                                June 12, 1990
Negotiations          October 15, 1990                            October 15, 1990
Board Approval       November 29, 1990                          November 29, 1990
Loan Signature        January 18, 1991                            January 18, 1991
Effectiveness Date   December 18, 1990       April 18, 1991          June 18, 1991
Completion Date      December 31, 1995                          December 31, 1993
Loan Closing            June 30, 1996      December 31, 1996   December 31, 1994



- 57 -
Annex 3
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY91  FY92  FY93    FY94    FY95   FY96
Appraisal Estimate        45.0   98.6    193.5  263.3    296.7   300.0
Actual                   146.5  243.4   300.0*  -         -        -
Actual as % of Estimate  300.3  200.5    100.6  -
*An additional US$19.0 million were disbursed under Loan 2666-ME
Date of First Disbursement:                 June 30, 1991
Initial Loan Closing Date:                  June 30, 1996
Actual Loan Closing Date:                   December 31, 1993
Date of Last Disbursement:                  March 1, 1994



- 58 -
Annex 4A
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3271-ME)
PROJECT COST
(US $MILLION)
NATIONAL
CNA                      0.3     3.0      3.3      0.5       0.3      25.3       25.6     1.9
BANOBRAS                 0.8     0.6      1.4      0.2       0.0       1.0        1.0     0.1
IMTA                     2.0     2.9      4.9      0.8       0.4       1.7        2.1     0.2
Studies&Designs          7.1    21.4    28.5       4.3       11.6     35.5       47.1     3.5
Pilot Pollution Control  0.3     0.2      0.5      0.1       0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0
Training                 3.9      5.7     9.6      1.5        0.0      1.8        1.8     0.1
Laboratories             0.5     4.2      4.7      0.7       3.1       1.6        4.7     0.4
Follow-up Project        0.1     0.1      0.2      0.1       0.1       0.1        0.2     0.0
Sub-Total               15.0    38.1    53.1       8.1       15.5     67.0       82.5     6.2
STATE & LOCAL
Water Supply           141.4   141.3   282.7      43.4      558.5    163.3     .721.8    53.8
Sanitation              87.5    87.5   175.0      26.9     268.6      78.6      347.2    25.9
Sewerage Plant          22.1    33.1    55.2       8.5      34.8      10.1       44.9     3.4
Sub-Total              251.0   261.9   512.9      78.8     861.9    252.0 (a) 1,113.9    83.1
Total Subproject       266.0   300.0   566.0      86.9      877.4    319.0    1,196.4    89.3
VAT(b)                  84.9             84.9     13.1      143.6               143.6    10.7
TOTAL COST             350.9   300.0   650.9    100.0   1,021.0    319.0    1,340.0   100.0
Preliminar Data
- Individual project component includes physical and price contingencies of 100% and 14% , respectively.
(a) Includes US$19million from Loan No. 2666-ME
(b) VAT of 12% average was used



- 59 -
Annex 4B
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Estimate                                 Actual*
.- Local   Foreign   TofTotal                cal    Foreip..  Total    % of Total
Bank                             300.0   300.0         46.1            319.0**     319.0         23.8
Federal Governrment    122.4             122.4         18.8    544.7               544.7         40.6
State Government       130.5             130.5         20.0    316.0                316.0        23.6
OA's Internal Cash      98.0              98.0         15.1      33.4                33.4         2.6
Generation
Others(BANOBRAS)                                                126.9               126.9         9.5
TOTAL                  350.9:   300.0   650.9    .  100.0   1,021.0    319.0   1,340.0          100.0
* Preliminary Data
"*Includes US$19.0 million from Loan 2666-ME



- 60 -
Annex 4C
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ million)
[C0ategor-y: t     -         ::   :     : :Appraisal V:Revised   Actual*]
1. Equipment, materials and civil             24.0      8.0       8.0
works for National Component
2. Equipment, materials and civil            208.0    225.0    244.0
works for State and Local Component
3. Consultant services for implementing       15.0     24.0      24.0
the National Component
4. Consultant services for implementing       23.0     43.0      43.0
the State and Local Component
5. Unallocated                                30.0
TOTAL                                        300.0    300.0    319.0
* US$ 19.0 million were authorized from Loan 2666-ME



- 61 -
Annex 5A
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Procurement Method of the Project
(US$ million)
[Project Element                        ICB                   LCB                 Others               Total*
Appraisal  Actual    Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal  Actual   Appraisal  Actual** "
* Civil Works                      136.0       36.0      310.0   814.7         17.0   228.6        463.0    1079.3
* Equipment/Materials               90.9       26.0       50.0   119.8         17.0      7.6       157.9      153.4
* Training/Technical Assistance        -                     -      6.7        30.0    100.6        30.0      107.3
Total                       226.9      62.0       360.0   941.2        64.0    336.8       650.9    1340.0
*Preliminary Data
** Includes authorization of US$19.0 million from Loan 2666-ME



- 62 -
Annex 5B
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Procurement Method of the Loan
(US$ million)
Irjec ;-Elem                         ICl:                  LCB                 Other                 Total*
:. ........ . ....A ppraisalt  A tu a   App raisal,  Actual   Apprais    Actual   Appraisal  Actual**
*Civil Works                         62.0    16.1       139.0   167.4          7.5    44.5       209.0      223.0
*Equipment/Materials                 47.0    11.5        20.5    10.3          7.5      2.2       75.0       24.0
*Training/Technical Assistance                   -                 6.0        16.0    61.0        16.0       67.0
TOTAL                               109.0    27.6        160.0   183.7        31.0   107.7       300.0      319.0
*Preliminary Data
** Includes authorization of US$19.0 million from Loan 2666-ME



- 63 -
Annex 6
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Status of Covenants
Agreement                                       Description of Covenants                                   Actual
Section                                                                                                    Compliance
3.01           Borrower (B-BANOBRAS) shall enter into satisfactory contractual arrangements with the       Complied.
Government (G) providing for transfer of the proceeds of the loan to G and for onlending the
proceeds by G to B in peso denominated subloans (SLs) at variable interest rates sufficient to
cover the cost of funds to, which is CETES.
4.02           BANOBRAS undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, to make SLs on agreed      Complied.
satisfactory terms and conditions.
4.03           Procurement of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by    Complied.
existing agreement between BANOBRAS and the Bank.
4.04           BANOBRAS shall not into SLs, except as the Bank shall otiierwise agree, unless: (a) the operating   Complied.
agency (OA) is directly responsible for operating a water supply or sanitary system; (b) in the
case of an OA receiving an aggregate equivalent to US$lm or more in SLs, the OA is collecting
water and sewerage charges sufficient to produce total operating revenues equivalent to not less
than the sum of its total operating expenses; and (c) the OA presents a satisfactory feasibility
study.
4.05           Each subproject shall include a technical assistance (TA) or training component to strengthen the  Complied.
institutional capabilities of the OA.
4.06           BANOBRAS shall present a satisfactory time table and terms of reference for consultant services    Complied.
no later than March 31, 1991.
4.07           BANOBRAS shall participate in the reviews together with the Government in November of each  Complied.
year.
4.08           BANOBRAS shall present semi-annual project progress reports (September 30 and March 31).    Complied, but
not timely.
5.02           BANOBRAS shall furnish copies of audited financial statements within six months after the end of   Complied, but
the preceding year.                                                                         not timely.



- 63 a -
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Status of Covenants
Guarantee Agreement                              Description of Covenant                           Actual Compliance
Section
3.01                   Government shall enter into contractual arrangements referred to Section 3.01 of  Complied.
Loan Agreement.
3.02                   Through CNA, Government shall assist OAs in preparing satisfactory subproject  Complied.
feasibility studies.
3.03                   Government shall enter into and comply with its obligations under subloan   Complied.
agreements for each subproject to be carried out by an OA.
3.04                   Through CNA, Government shall: (a) assist the OAs in carrying out the institutional  Complied.
3.05                   strengthening component and supervise the OAs' execution of the subprojetcs; (b)
3.06                   present guidelines for revaluating the assets of the OAs by December 31, 1991; and
(c) publish and furnish to the Bank by March 30 of each year a report on the
performance of OAs during the immediately prior calendar year.
3.07                   Through CNA and IMTA, Government shall supervise strengthening of IMTA      Complied.
National Training Center and submit a project progress report with a plan for
execution during the immediately upcoming calendar year.
3.08                   Through CNA, Government shall carry out the National Water Quality and      Complied.
Informnation System.
3.09                   Through SHCP, SPP, CNA, and IMTA, Government shall participate in the annual   Complied.
reviews referred to in Section 4.08 of the Loan Agreement.
3.10                   Through CNA and IMTA, Govemment shall furnish to the Bank an audited report    Complied, but not
on expenditures for the project.                                           timely.
3.11                   Through CNA, Government shall contract with consultants under satisfactory term  Complied, but not
of reference to provide CNA with TA for evaluating projects, reviewing technical    timely.
norms, etc., by March 312, 1991.
3.12                   Through IMTA, Government shall, by March 1, 1991, enter into a contract with  Due to
qualified consultants to provide TA to IMTA.                               unsatisfactory
performance from
original contractor,
IMTA hired other
consultants to
provide TA.



- 63 b -
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Status of Covenants
Guarantee Agreement                         Description of Covenants                      Actual Compliance
Siection-:
3.13                    Through CNA, Government shall, by September 30, 1991, complete   Complied, but not timely.
a study examining alternative machanisms to encourage private
sector participation in the provision of water supply and sanitation
systems; and exchange views with the Bank regarding the
recommendations of the study.
4.07                    BANOBRAS shall perticipate in the reviews with Government in      Complied.
November of each year.
4.08                    BANOBRAS shall present semi-annual project progress reports       Complied, but not timely.
(September 30 and March 31).
5.02                    BANOBRAS shall furnish copies of audited financial statements     Complied, but not timely.
within six months after the end of the preceding year.



- 64 -
Annex 7
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
~Staff Weeks..
Stage of Poject Cyce                          Planned                   Actual 
Trough Appraisal                                  n.a.                    51.9
Appraisal-,--*Board Approval                      n.a.                    13.5
Board Approval-Effectiveness                      n.a.                    n.a.
Supervision                                       n.a.                   98.6
Total                                                                    174.0
B. Mission Data
1 Act'vitt ivi          Monear    :          o.::.of   N   of    Spciation :         aff1 1:tlng:    Dae eof:E ::      p o:
1                     Weeks       Persons                    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeks  ~Stats Reot   Prbe
Identification  November 1988           2           2          E,Ec            4.0        n/s        12/10/88     n/s
Preparation     March-December 1989    2            2          E,F             4.0        n/s        7/25/90      n/s
Appraisal       June 1990               2.5         3          E,Ec,F          7.5        n/s        11/8/90      n/s
Post Appraisal   September 1990         1           1          E               1.0        n/s        10125/90     n/s
Supervision*    January 1991            1           1          E               1.0        n/s        1/2/91       n/s
Supervision     March 1991              1           1          E               1.0        2          3/28/91      M,F
Supervision*    September 1991          1           1          E               1.0        n/s        9/19/91      M,F
Supervision     October 1991            2           4          E,Ec,           8.0        2          10/22/91     My
Supervision     January 1992            1           3          E,F,T           3.0        2          2/14/92      M,P
Supervision     March 1992              1           2          E,Ec            2.0        3          4/22/92      M,P
Supervision     January 1993            2           5          E,F,Ec          10.0       3          1/27/93      M,F
Supervision     April 1993              2           4          E,F,Ec          8.0        3          5/13/93      M
Supervision     September 1993          2           3          E,F,Ec          6.0        3          10/2/93      M
*Includes supervision for other projects
Specialties: F=Financial Analyst; E=Engineer; Ec=Economist; Training:T
Type of problem: M=Managerial; F=Financial; P=Political; n/s= Not Specified



- 65 -
Annex 8A
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Total of Sub-Projects
States                Number of    Total Cost      Percentage    Bank Loan     Percentage
Subprojects   (US$million)                (US$mil lion)
Aguascalientes             53               41.9           3.26          14.6          5.27
Baja Califomia             118              95.3           7.42          19.6          8.41
Baja California Sur        123               19.0          1.48           3.6          1.55
Campeche                   27               25.9           2.02           4.9          2.10
Coahuila                   13                7.3           0.57           1.9          0.82
Colima                     30               20.1           1.56           4.8          2.06
Chiapas                    62               81.3           6.33          11.3          4.85
Chihuahua                  24                10.4          0.81           0.6          0.26
Durango                    29                17.5          1.36           4.6          1.97
Guanajuato                214               86.7           6.75          17.4          7.47
Guerrero                   24               35.9           1.25           3.3          4.12
Hidalgo                    38                16.0          1.25           3.3          1.42
Jalisco                    88               117.8          9.17          24.1         10.34
Estado de Mexico          237               159.5         12.41          19.4          8.33
Michoacan                  112              42.6           3.32           9.1          3.91
Morelos                    55                16.4          1.28           2.5          1.07
Nayarit                    40                12.8          1.00           3.4          1.46
Nuevo Le6n                 95               67.5           5.25           8.6          3.69
Oacaxa                    102               25.9           2.02           4.6          1.97
Puebla                    124               34.4           2.68           7.1          3.05
Queretaro                  32                7.8           0.61           1.3          0.56
Quintana Roo               35               15.2           1.18           0.9          0.39
Sn Luis Potosi             30                16.1          1.25           2.6          1.12
Sinaloa                    29               28.4           2.21           6.3          2.70
Sonora                    131               80.5           6.26          14.2          6.09
Tabasco                    33               34.5           2.68           6.3          2.92
Tamaulipas                 82               43.4           3.38           8.3          3.56
Tlaxcala                  103               15.6           1.21           2.9          1.24
Veracruz                   46               80.5           6.26           6.9          2.96
Yucatan                    32               19.4           1.51           5.8          2.49
Zacatecas                  10                9.4           0.73           2.0          0.86
TOTAL                     2,171           1,285.0        100.00         233.0        100.00



Annex 8B
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
List of Studies and Activities during 1990-1993
Year 1990
|  esultan0  0 | t   :; ; :;  i  tt  iti 00   Activiq ty  u0;  ::         ;:; 0: t;        0 00000  teetise                                                  Foaow-u
l IMTA         Evaluation and research of lab devices and measurement  The behavior of household meters, shower heads, getters,    Test modules were reconditioned at IMTALAB and are used
support.                                                toilets and fittings was evaluated and investigated. Likewise,  for certification purposes.
thc provisional lab for the efficient use of water was equipped
with instruments and put in operation.
DATA           Certification andt standardization.                     Th e main standards of the water sector were analyzed and the    The Project was submitted to IMTA Coordination which has
IMTA certification lab was designed.                       responded to CNA requests.
EITA           Efficient use of water techniques.                      Evaluation of diagram digitalization, pitorinetry and       The different techniques are used in the country's main water  a'
macromeasurement in two developmedts in Morelos.           companies.                                                   a'
ITA           Rust prevention and control.                             Preparation of recommendations and suggestions oii          The use of these recommendations was promotcd within
supervision and sampling in aqueducts susceptible to corrosion.   CNA.
IMTA          Leakage detection and conrol and impact of meters in     It was found, with 95% certainty, that household taps lose  The evaluation method was generalized and applied in 15
savings and collection, for Guayymas, Son.              23% of the water provided, 2% is lost through metering errors   cities with the training provided by 5 consulting companies.
and 0% in the network.
IMTA          Microbiological water quality control at the rural and   Implementation of low cost tedmologies to remove micro      Instrumental techniques are available and perforned in the
municipal levels.                                       organisms from waters.                                      lab.
WMTA          Microbiological control of waste waters for agricultural  Dynamic detennination of bacteria and pathogenic parasites in    Technical criteria for maximum limits were generated.
irrigation in Alfajayucatan, Hgo.                       agricultural waters and irrigated soils.
IMTA           Sanitary and productive handling of waters in the area of  Evaluation of technical and standardization criteria in draft  Technical criteria for maximum limits were generated.
Alfajayucatan, Hgo.                                     Regulations.



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
List of Stidies and Activities during 1990-1993
Year 1991
|-.---- Conultatttt                   Activity                                              Ontcoaiic                                                    Folow-up
IMTA          Evaluation of losses in drinking water systems.       On average, 26% of the water provided to the cities is  The method was transferred to 15 cities and 5 consultant companies wero
lost in household taps, 8% in networks and 2% by     trained; water compaties carry out studies independently from CNA.
deficient measuremenit.
IMTA          Update of supplies in the country.                    Thoc averages were: for warm weather 495 Ilperson/day   'There are agreements with 8 national universities, and measuremrrrdnt data
and in seni-warm weather, 350 I/persontday anid in   in 23 cities.
nioderate weather, 310 L/lperson/day.
IMTA          Drinking water networks with integrated leakage       The model of the network for Tuxtla Gtz., Clhig. was  hIle hydrometric district technique was iniproved and included in a Manual
detection syslems.                                   gauged and 13 hydrometric systerns wore propo{scd to  fur tile Design of Distributioni Networks.
detcct leakages.
IMTA          Corrosion prevention and control.                     Throughout the country, 86% of steel and 50% of pre-  Three proposals for anti-corrosive covering standards were developed as  Pi
stressed concrete show high risk of failure due to   well as several docurnents to support corrosion control.
corrosion.
IMTA          Saving devices.                                       A total of 95 household water consumption savimg      Device selection guides were prepared and four test brochures,
devices were evaluated. Sixty-two per cent of which
weie found not to be effective.
IMTA          Standardization and certification.                    The criteria for tie implementation of the           It was submitted to IMTA Coordination and it has responded to CNA
stindlFlrdizationi and certificationi system was developed.    requests and Ihose from Oie domestic industrial sector.
A list of reliable suppliers in tho waler sector was
IMTA          Shear rates.                                         It was found that in some 30-year-old Mexican          The results were included in the new CNA basic data manual for drinking
aqueducts, the C shear rate decreases by 40%. Manning-   water and sewerage design.
n increases by 80% and Darcy-W f by 85%.
IThA           international Seminar,                               It took place in Mexico City in October 1993 with the  The seminar reports were distributed and a book on the efficiedt use of
presentation of 146 technical reports.               water was edited.
DlTfA         Water unalysis through atomic absorption.             HIeavy metal determination (As, Pb, Cr, Jig) in water  Metal concentrations were determined in water samples from agricultural
samples from problem areas.                          areas and supply sources.
IMTA          Water quality and control in Tlaxcala.                MOGOOD evaluation.                                    Manufacturing was established at the industrial level.



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
List of Studies and Activities during 1990-1993
Year 1992
[      Consultit                                  ;  Activity                                                    Outcome                                              Follow-uip
IMTA                     Drinking Water, Sewerage and Sanitation Design Manual.           Guidelines as to presentation, structure and contents of  The Manuals will be edited and distributed by CNA
the Manual were developed. Three issues were          throughout the country.
developed: Distribution Networks, Basic Data and
Leakage Control.
The issues were divided into three sections: theory,
procedures and metering programs.
IMTA                     Technological transfer and analytical support.                   Propose organizational alternatives in Operating       Procedures Manual was developed.
Agencies' labs.
IMTA                     Determination of pathogens in water supply.                      Improve low cost techniqLwUs to isolate pathogens.     Water quality techniques are applied in laboratory.
IMTA                     Slow filtration in sand for denitration of water destined for human  Design models and improve treatment techniques.    A model was built.
consumption.



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
List of Studies and Activities during 1990-1993
Year 1993
[       Con sultant                                   Activity                                                  Outcome                                               Follow-up
TMTA                     Operation and maintenance of drinking waler and sewerage        From the analysis of lab tests, it was discovered that  Specifications will be developed for sewers with airtight
systems.                                                       sewers constructed widt simple concrete tubing are not    joints and for the installation, repair and replacement of
airtight due to poor quality control during manufacture.    household taps.
Samples of household taps were identified and are being    On the other hand, the field measurement program to
tested in the lab to define design specifications.    determine the iniput of waste waters will be carried out
during 1994.
Weirs were installed to measure household waste
waters; the weirs are being gauged in the lab.
IMTA                     Evaluation of the efficiency of water companies.                A computer program was developed with a basic module   The program will be validated with domestic indices and  O
that allows to capture and handtlle data, validate thcin,  training will be given to water companies for their use.
and calculate efriciency rates of operating agencies. It
works with a minimum of 25 pieces of data and 15
indices, to be expanded to 61 pieces of data and 41
indices.
IMTA                     Basic engineering and design of drinking water systems.         A Drinking Water Design Manual for rural systems is   The Manual and the program will be distributed by CNA
being developed, where prototype projects of supply  to water and consulting companies.
sources, standardi2ation, distribution and potabilization
are being developed.
A computer program allowing to design distribution
networks is also being developed, with graphic inputs
and outputs (digitalization and executive planes) capable
of solving networks of up to 3000 knots and the same
number of sections.
IMTA                    Water quality evaluation in  rtaiii Mexican cities.             Improve analysis technigues in water related parameters    Out of 120 techniques, 97 were implemented. Water
required by SSa and EPA.                              quality evaluation in 8 Mexican cities.
IMTA                     Toxicological evaluation of municipal effluents.                Improve toxicity techniques through the MICROTOX      It was transferred to Operating Agencies and it is being
system.                                               applied in Ciudad Juirez.



- 67 -
Annex 8C
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Training Program 1990-1993
(number of participants)
Training Participants by Occupation Category
category              Appraisal   Actual
Managers              1300         685
Supervisors          2340          715
Technical            2340          1425
Operators             1240         695
Clerks               2500          1521
TOTAL                 9720         5041
Training Program by Types of Systems
Systems.                Appraisal    Actual::
Water Supply                 2,160    1,327
Sewerage                     2,160     1,198
Water-Treatment               1,620      428
Water Pollution Control       1,620      590
Commercial-Finance           2,160    1,498
TOTAL                        9,720    5,041
Training Program by Size of Agency
Agency    Appraisal   Actual
A              4,600      2,722
B              3,700       1,613
C              1,420        706
TOTAL          9,720       5,041



- 68 -
Annex 8D
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Cost of the Training Program
(US$ million)
Category                              Appraisal                         Actual
Local      Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign    Total
Civil Works
contruction-rehabilitation  1.0       0.9        1.9        0.2        -          0.2
three regional centers
Equipment & Materials
training equipment         -          0.7        0.7        -          0.2        0.2
water quality laboratory   -          1.7        1.7        -          1.5        1.5
Technical Assistance                  2.4        2.4        -          2.3        2.3
Training
operating agencies        2.0         -         2.0         -
CNA                       0.4         -         0.4        0.5         2.3        2.8
Administration-Operation   0.5       -          0.5        0.3        -           0.3
TOTAL                      3.9       5.7        9.6         1.1        6.3        7.4
Source: CNA



_ 69 _
Annex 8E
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Total Sector Investment
National Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Investment Plan 1990-1994
(US$million)
Sub Sectors            1990                  1991                  1992                 1993               1994:. 
Estimate   Actual   Estinate      Actual   Estimate     Actual   Estimate   Actual   Estiimate   Actual j
Water Supply   206.1       737.6    674.1        789.9    695.6         681.8   690.8      726.5    728.1
Sewerage       63.7        181.1    232.6*       64.6*    252.1         188.4   247.0      364.8    238.0
Treatment       16.0       -         121.5        -        107.5        33.5     112.9     263.5    117.6
Total          285.8       918.7    1028.2        854.5    1055.2       903.7    1050.7    1354.8   1083.7
* Includes investments in water treatment.
Total Accumulated Investment in the Sector 1990-1993
(US$ million)
Sub Sectors              Amount    Percentage
Water Supply               2,935.8          72.8
Sewerage                     798.9          19.8
Treatment                    297.0           7.4
Total                      4,031.7         100.0
Source: CNA



- 70 -
Annex 8F
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Total Sector Investment
National Water Supply and Sanitation Investment Plan 1990-1993
(US$ million)
By Source of Funding
Year      Federal   State & Municipal  Credits & Operating Agencies   Total
Internal Cash: Generation
1990        452.0              198.6             268.1                 918.7
1991        232.6              243.0             378.9                 854.5
1992        478.0              242.0             183.7                 903.7
1993        591.7              406.7             456.4                1,354.8
TOTAL    1,754.3              1,090.3            1,287.1              2,377.4
Source: CNA



-71 -
Annex 8G
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Water Supply and Sanitation Service Coverage
(population in million)
|WaterSupply          Saiton. Services
YEAR::::      TOTAL. POPULATION*t;-; Population  Percentage  jou+ion    Percentagemt;.
1990                   82.5             66.1       80.1        51.8         62.8
1991                   84.1             68.9       81.9        54.7         65.1
1992                   85.7             71.9       83.9        57.2         66.7
1993                   87.3             74.4       85.2        60.2         68.9
1994                   88.9             76.9       86.4        63.2        71.01
1995                   90.6             79.4       87.6        66.2         73.1
1996                   92.2             81.9       88.7        69.2         75.0
1997                   94.0             84.4       89.8        72.2         67.8
1998                   95.7             86.9       90.7        75.2         78.5
1999                   97.5             89.4       91.6        78.2         80.2
2000                   99.3             91.9       92.5        81.2         81.7
*Population has been estimated at the end of each year.
Source: CNA



72 -
Annex 8H
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage
(thousands)
Water Supply Connections             Sewerage Connections
Sector       1990    1991        1992    1993    1990    1991   1992   -1993
Domestic      9,797     10,166  10,645   11,029   7,174  7,448   7,814   8,164
Commercial      268        392      427      481     285    325      356      391
Industrial       25         32       38       42      25      28       32      35
TOTAL        10,090     10,590  11,110  11,552   7,484  7,801   8,202   8,590
Preliminary Data in 1993
Source: CNA



MEXICO                                                                        Annex 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Performance Indexes
Population Served         Total       Total  Unaccounted          Total Staff          Total Billed  Production Cost  Energy/Total Cost
(percentage)       Production     Billed     for water           c000)
City              Water   Sewerage       connection/m3lyear              %        Water       Sewerage    m31'ylr/Staff       N$/m3                 %
Supply                                                     Connections   Connections
Campeche            70.0       10.0         524.57       n.a.         40.80         2.60          n.a.       113,465            0.33             29.80
Ciudad Carmen       60.0        5.0         383.66     272.88         30.40         6.78          n.a.        47,931            0.46             42.00
Piedras Negras      81.9       58.0         897.00     407.40         54.60         5.50          n.a.        74,161            0.38             22.00
Monclova            87.4       69.9         772.00     332.00         57.00         5.50          8.13        60,764            0.24             31.50
Saltillo            87.5       78.7         569.00     260.00         45.80         4.30          7.37        60,535            0.48             46.00
Manzanillo          96.0       87.0         857.00     406.00         52.60         7.80          4.63        52,099            0.69             32.25
Tuxtla              92.0       82.0         552.60     233.93         48.00         8.50          n.a.        28,017            0.90             34.00
Celaya              73.0       70.0         695.50       n.a.          n.a.         6.60          6.90          n.a.            n.a.             41.00
Irapuato            90.0       77.0         450.20     286.80         36.20         4.90          7.75        58,792            0.36             22.00
Pachuca             97.0       87.0         573.34     281.75         51.00         6.43          6.50        43,824            0.79             10.00
Apatzingan          85.0       35.0         359.00     216.00         39.80         2.50          3.00        86,686            0.16             85.70
Cuernavaca          73.7       59.0           n.a.       n.a.         54.34         5.60          n.a.          n.a.            n.a.             42.62
Oaxaca              84.7       55.2         415.42     199.42         52.00        10.90          n.a.        18,320            0.68             15.20
Tuxtepec            88.0       73.0         679.85     468.73         71.70         3.50          3.82        18,304            0.18             45.30
Sn Luis P.          95.0       85.0         331.17     245.57         26.00         2.80          3.17        86,420            n.a.             51.40
Soledad Graciano    86.5       81.0         516.47     320.21         38.00         3.04          3.24       105,229            n.a.              n.a.
Matehuala           84.9       67.0         542.34     360.67         33.80         7.20          9.36        70,009            0.28             35.60
Culiacan            96.7       72.2         851.48     370.82         38.00         4.70          6.29       101,421            0.30              n.a.
Hermosillo          96.8       55.0         806.00     425.31         52.00         4.70          8.27        50,644            0.33             34.00
Guaymas             90.0       42.0         995.34     394.00         60.40         7.90         16.93        49,851            0.33             34.40
Empalme             90.0       74.0         537.83     497.63          n.a.         9.82         12.28        50,644            0.67             18.53
Reynosa             87.9       51.0         550.42     332.77         39.50         7.30         13.42        44,212            0.38             16.00
Matamoros           87.0       56.0        1445.22     541.96         52.00         7.70         10.00        70,391            0.37             25.10
Xalapa              76.0       61.0         108.00      56.40         52.00         9.80         11.89        66,194            0.61             27.00
Merida              87.5        3.9         697.40     211.90           n.a.        2.90          n.a.        52,982            0.49             35.50
Source: CNA



MI%ICO                                        Annex 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Poverty Index of Each State of the Union
STATE.                         Poverty Index           Degree*
Chiapas                                   2.36046        High
Oaxaca                                    2.05526        High
Guerrero                                   1.74666       High
Hidalgo                                    1.16952      High
Veracruz                                   1.13030      High
Puebla                                    0.83108        High
San Luis Potosi                           0.74878       High
Zacatecas                                 0.56805       High
Tabasco                                   0.51677       High
Campeche                                  0.47741       High
Yucatan                                   0.39959       High
Michoacan                                 0.36274       High
Guanajuato                                0.21157       High
Queretaro                                 0.16086       High
Durango                                   0.01175       High
Tlaxcala                                  -0.03620     Medium
Nayarit                                  -0.13366      Medium
Sinaloa                                   -0.14100     Medium
Quintana Roo                             -0.19119      Medium
Morelos                                   -0.45714       Low
Mexico                                    -0.60422       Low
Tamaulipas                               -0.60855        Low
Colima                                    -0.75783       Low
Jalisco                                   -0.76764       Low
Sonora                                   -0.85979        Low
Chihuahua                                 -0.87224       Low
Aguascalientes                            -0.88969       Low
Baja California Sur                      -0.96851        Low
Coahuila                                 -1.05344        Low
Baja California                           -1.34464       Low
Nuevo Leon                                -1.37660       Low
Distrito Federal                         -1.68846        Low
* The poverty index is divided in three categories: PI High> 0.01 175; PI Medium> -0.1919; PI Low>-
1.6884. The index and data with respect to each municipality in Mexico is readily available through a Data Base
file in LAC files.



75 _
Annex 11
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
National Water Commission: Total Staff
(staff by category)
Staff      ~~~1.989     199          1991~ ... 199              1993..
Professional    5,301       6,615        6,926        6,676         6,357
Administrative   4,990      2,805        2,140         1,904        1,848
Support        22,224       22,756       21,411       20,738        15,805
Total           32,515      32,176       30,477       29,318        24,010
National Water Commission: Total Staff
(staff by location)
.  i   i   :   E:  r  .   7    .   f   . -   r   7   F   ! 7    iRE   r -r   i   -    7  i  - f -7E  hE:  m !:E    iN  A r  i:   .   . .    - i  P...... .   .......
Location     1989::        199001991                  1992          193
Central      3,518         3,481         3,298        3,172         2,598
Regional     1,249         1,236         1,170        1,126         922
State        27,748        27,459       26,009        25,020        20,490
Total        32,515        32,176        30,477       29,318        24,010
Source: CNA



- 76 -
MEXICO                                         Annex 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3271-ME)
Total Operating Agencies in Mexico
State                    -          .      .   Number of OAs
Aguascalientes                                        I
Baja California                                       4
Baja California Sur                                   I
Campeche                                              2
Coahuila                                              10
Colima                                                4
Chapas                                                4
Chihuahua                                             6
Distrito Federal                                      I
Durango                                               3
Guanajuato                                           11
Guerrero                                              5
Hidalgo                                               2
Jalisco                                               8
Mexico                                                9
Michoacan                                             9
Morelos                                               2
Nayarit                                               I
Nuevo Leon                                            5
Caxaca                                                4
Puebla                                                2
Queretaro                                             3
San Luis Potosi                                       5
Sinaloa                                               8
Sonora                                                7
Tabasco                                               2
Tamaulipas                                            9
Tlaxcala                                              2
Veracruz                                              8
YucatAn                                               2
Zacatecas                                             3
Total                                                147



NATIONAL BANK FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND SERVICES
(BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS - HBANOBRAS")
SCAR OF DItECToP
|m     GENERAL D IRECTORATE
CO2IEATION Of PGN- .CVoorrINATION OF PROJECTS
AND                                                              EVALUATION AND
INSTITUTIONAL EVLIARTIOW                                                   SPECIAL STUhDES
rnreDI"ATI0O  -f Institutional Im_
SOCIAL CUICATIOV           - International Conlication
- Social Coomiunlction
Dlrector of           Director of
Plwnring,             Finenefl                Director               Director          of Fiduciary              Dfrector             Comptroller              states
Promotion and         Engineering                of                     of             *n  Legsl                     of                   of                 Detegatiors
Technical             Sectorial               Financing              Finonce           Counselling            Administration          Accounting
Assistence            Projects



_ 77 a -
"BANOBRAS" DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
FINANCE
DIRECTORATE
FOR           ll                                                     FOR          l
INTERNATIONAL                                                       FIOAXIA
OPERATIONS                                                         OPERATI ONS
Manager's                                            Manager's
Office for                                            Office for
International                                         Internationat
Finance                                               Operations
Assfstant                   Assistant                Assistant                 Assfstant
Manager's Office            Manager's                Manager's Office           Manager's offfce
for Transports              Office for               for Foreign               for Flnanciat
Sector Assistant            Urban                    Trade and                  Scheme and lIport
=   Development         International              Financing
Treasury



- 78 -
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE NATIONAL WATER COUMISSION
(Comisifn Nacional de] Agua - -C.NA.-)
SECRETARIAT Of AGRICU"'T"E|
IIDRAIJLIC RESOURCES
AEXICAl 1ISTITUTE                                                                              AUDIT
OFGEEA   ltcoT
U&mU TECHNOLOGY
Sub~diructorst. of      Sub~diractorate of      subir.ctorast  of         Stbdir.ctorst. of             asnats
Kydrosgricu(ture         Hydraulic Urban             Watat                    Planning arnd        Subdi rectorate of
Infrastructure          infrastructure          Amuinustrstion                Financing           Akiiinistration
and Inc4.stry
anaevor'. Office
of
SpeciaI ProjectI
Manager's office
of
Studies and
Projects
MANAGER'S OFFICES
OF REGIONAL
Manager's Office
Contruct Ior
MAAGER'S OFFICES
OF STATES
Manager's Office
of
TechnicaL Norn
Manager's Office
of
Potabnlization and
Voter Iretuient






I






I
PIXTEX                                          IMAGING
Report No:       14611                          Report No:        14611
Type: PCR                                       Type : PCP.



