Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8973-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Tib document has a resticted disrludo and may be usd by  opby In te promane of
their offa dutie  Its contents may na otheise be dosed     Wodld Dank



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =     Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                  D     2887 Hex$ (as of 9/19/90) */
*/ The exchange rate against the US dollar is currently sliding at a
rate of Hex$0.80 per day.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WE'GHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                      British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)              a           3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =           0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          =           2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,250 pounds
1 liter (1)                          0.26 gallons (gal)
ACRONYMS
ANOAPA   =   National Association for Water Supply Operating Agencies -
Asociaci6n Nacional de Organismos Operadores de Agua Potable
BANOBRAS     National Developunettt Bank for Public Works and Services -
Panco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
CETES        Mexican Government's Treasury Bills
Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Nacifn
CNA      =   National Water Commission - Comiridn Nacional de Agua
CONAPO       National Population Committee - Comite Nacional de Poblaci6n
IMTA     =   Mexican Institute of Water Technology - Instituto Mexicano
de Tecnologia del Agua
OAS      =   Operating Agencies
SARH     =   Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources -
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SEDUE    =   Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology - Secretaria de
Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
SHCP         Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit - Secretaria de
Hacienda y CrOdito Piblico
SPP          Secretariat of Planning and Budgeting - Secretaria de
Programaci6n y Presupuesto
SWA      =   State Water Agency
SWS      =   State Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees - Subcomit4s
de Agua Potable y Saneamiento



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY ...................................                    1
II.     THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ......................                    . 4
A. Socio-Econtmic Setting                          ..                           4
B.   Water and the Economy ..................................                   4
Sector Service Levels                       ..                           4
Other Uses of Water                        ..                            4
Water Quality ...........................................                5
Water Reources                           .             .5
Sector Institutions and Coordination .                   .               6
C. Sectoral Issues                             ..9
Organizatin                            . .9
Federal Financing Policies    .                   .10
Investment Planning and Analysis   .                 .12
Tariffs and Commercial Practices .                   .                  13
Water Pollution Control    .                    .14
D. Govertnment Sector Strategy    .                     .15
E.    Prior Batik Involvement and Sector Strategy .               .           16
III. THE PROJECT .17
A. Project Origin    ..17
B. Project Objective    ..18
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   .                    .18
D.    Sector Service Level Targets, Investment Program and
Financing   . .19
E.   Project Description ........................;..........                  21
F.  Project Cost and Finatcing.                                               22
Project Financing    ..23
C. Project Execution    ..25
H. Procureent   ..27
I. Disbursements    ..29
J. Envittotnental Assessment    .                      .30
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIICATION                 .         .                    30
K. Project Benefits .30
L. Project Risks and Safeguards .31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in June 1990. The mission was composed of Ms. Lea Donaldson (Task
Hanager), Messrs. R. Panfil (Principal Economist, LAZIE), G. Yepes (Unit
Chief, Water and Urban Unit, LATIE), J. Listorti (Consultant), E. Guzman
(Cons.), E. Aguilar CCons.). L. Moncada (Cons.), and Ms. J. RoaWm (Cons.). It
al7o incorporates the findings if early preparation work by Mr. Carl Bartone
(INURD). Hs. Norah Arancibia (LA2IE) assisted in the production of this
report.
Thk document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ..........................................                32
ANNEXES:
Annex 1  -  Mexico Water and Sewerage Services (1980) ..............                36
Atmex 2  -  Structure of Federal Government Financial Assistance ...                39
Annex 3  -  Bylaws of the Water Supply and Sanitation Subcommittees
(SWSs) .................................................              42
Annex 4  -  Program to Reduce Subsidies ............................                44
Annex 5  -  Conditions for Subproject Eligibility for Bank
Financing ..............................................              45
Attachment .............................................              46
Annex 6  -  Outline Terms of Reference for Private Sector
Participation Study ....................................              51
Annex 7  -  Description of Subproject Reviewed for First Year
Implementation .........................................              53
Attachment .............................................              55
Annex 8  -  Project Investment Schedule ............................                55
Annex 9  -  Review of BANOBRAS .....................................                56
Anmex 10 -  National Training Program ..............................                59
Annex 11 -  Sector Monitoring Indicators ..........................                 66
Annex 12 -  Loan Disbursement Scheme ...............................                67
Annex 13 -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File ...................................................              68
Map IBRD 22594



MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
I.LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Burrower:      National Development Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.-
BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:     United Mlexican States.
Executing
Agencies and
Beneficiaries: State, municipal and private water and sanitation
operating agencies.
Amount:        US$300 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
onlending
terms:         BANOBRAS would onlend proceeds in peso denominated
subloans to operating agencies, at variable interest
rates sufficient to cover the cost of funds to BANOBRAS
which is CETES (Treasury Bill rate).
Prolect
Objectivess    The main objectives of the project are to support the
implementation of the Sector Reorganization Program which
Is designed to improve the quality and quantity of water
supply and sanitation services, promote sound pricing
policies, progressively reduce the need for Government
funding and improve environmental conditions in Mexico.
Project
Description:   The proposed project includes two major components:  (a)
NATIONAL COMPONENT (US$61.4 million) to assist in the
institutional development of sector institutions (CNA,
BANOBRAS and IMTA), support the implementation of new
sector policies, finance studies to prepare model
contracting documents and develop a strategy to encourage
private sector participation in the provision of water
and sanitation services, and finance the preparation of a
follow-up water pollution control project; and (b) STATE
and LOCAL COMPONENT (US$589.5) to help to finance sector
investments through BANOBRAS; these investments would
focus on the poorer areas of the subproject cities, and
would have to meet technical, lnstituti(onal, economical,
and environmental criteria. These investments involve
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and
sanitation systems. In addition the loan would finance
project engineering, and institutional strengthening of
the operating agencies.



2-
ProJect
Beniefits:      The project will directly benefit some 3.2 million mostly
poot ppople by providing them with water supply and
sanitation services. The project, also, will stimulate
internal sector savings and reduce the dependence of the
sector on Government fundings.
Project
Risks:          The reforms of sectoral institutions and policies being
undertaken by the Government are an ambitious and complex
task, which will require a sustained effort in the years
ahead.  Although major steps are already being
implemented (i.e. the creation of CNA, the approval of
sound sector policies, agreement on training among CNA.
IMTA and ANOAPA), the following risks remain: (a)
inadequate levels of counterpart funds caused by
Government delays in distributing its contributions, and
CNAIBANOBRAS/OAs failure to raise sufficient funds from
domestic resources; (b) lack of coordination among
federal programs; (c) delays in subproject preparation,
evalutation, and execution because of insufficient
operating capability of the OAs: and (d) BANOBRAS being
forced to relax on subproject conditionalities because of
political pressure frum central or local governments.
Although the conditionality contains remedies and plans
of action to address these risks, the Government's firm
determination to provide services in an efficient manner
is the most important safeguard in this area.
Nevertheless, lack of satisfactory compliance with the
agreed targets, which will be monitored at Annual Review
of the Sector Plan of Actions, would be a condition of
default under the proposed loan.
Rate of
RetuLn:        Mtinimum of 122 for each eligible subproject (lO2 for
environmental subprojects), with revenues as proxy for
benefits.
Maps            IBRD 22594



Project Cost: A/                          Local      Foreign        Total
-US$ millions_--__
1.  National Component                   15.0         38.1          53.1
CNA                                   0.3          3.0           3.3
BANOBRAS                              0.8          0.6           1.4
IMTA                                 2.0           2.9           4.9
Studies and Designs                   7.1         21.4          28.5
Pilot Pollution Control               0.3          0.2           0.5
Training                              3.9          5.7           9.6
Laboratories                          0.5          4.2           4.7
Prep. of Follow-up Project            0.1          0.1           0.2
Z.  States and Local Component          251.0        261.9         512.9
Water Supply                        141.4        141.3         282.7
Sanitation                          87.5          87.5         175.0
Sewerage Treat. Plants              2X.1          33.1          55.2
Subtotal Project Cost              266.0         300.0         566.0
Value added tax                      84.9           -           84.9
Total Project Cost                  350.9        300.0         650.9
Financitng Plan                   Local       Foreign        Total
-----------US$ milliQns ------
Operating Agenrtes                   98.0          -            98.0
State Governments                  130.5           -           130.5
Federal Government                 122.4           -           122.4
Bank Loan                             -          300.0         300.0
Total                              350.9         300.0         650.9
Estimated Bank Disbursementst
Bank FYs                              912/     92     93    94    95    96
--------------US$ millions---------
Annual                                45     53     95    70    34       3
Cumulative                            45     98    193   263   297   300
1/   Individual project cost component includes physical and price
contingencies of IOZ and 14Z respectively.
2/    Retroactive financing of US$30.0 million for expenditures incurred
after May 1, 1990. A special account will be opened with a
deposit of up to US$30.0 million equivalent.



- 4 -
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Socio-Economic Setting
1.        The Mexican economy is now in transition.  The reduction of
inflation, which had reached 159% in 1987, required a deep stabilization
effort which, still under way, is considered to have been largely
successful. The drain on foreign exchange earnings caused by an
unsustainable external debt service burden has been significantly
reduced through a debt reduction program that the Bank supported. The
task ahead is to achieve and sustain economic growth. With this
objective, the Federal Government has been moving towards an open,
export-oriented economy, and is seeking to reduce the role of the state,
transferring to the private sector many activities for which the
rationale for pubJic ownershil) was not strong.  Federal spending has
been reduced, and because of the still ongoing fiscal stabilization
effort, the federal budget will be confronted by many competing claims.
As a result, federal grant financing for investment and operations of
the water supply and sewerage sector is no longer available in
significant amounts and prospects point to continued austerity. At the
same time Mexico has set ambitious goals for extending the coverage of
water supply and sewerage services and environmental protection to its
inhabitants. Population, which is expected to grow from 85 million
(1990) to lbetween 100 and 110 million by the year 2000, will be a major
factor in increasing demand. This raises some major issuess How will
Mexico fund the very large investments that the sector requires1 In a
country with severe water constraints, how will this demand be satisfied
In an environmentally sustainable way?
B. Water and the Economy
Sector Service Levels
2.        The absence of an adequate and reliable information system
makes the assessment of sector service levels and progress in extending
service coverage a dubious exercise; nonetheless, broad trends appear.
From 1980 to 1989. water suipply coverage only marginally exceeded
population growth. The population census of 1980 indicated that 702 (47
million people) had access to a piped water system, of which 70Z had
indoor house plumbing. In 1980, 832 of the urban population and 45Z of
the rural population benefited from water services. By 1989, 8O0 of the
urban and 492 of the rural population had acce3s to this service, but,
in many cases, access was not round-the-clock; the quantity available
per customer was limited and drinking water quality could not be
assured. Investment efforts since 1986 have been modest. This fact,
compounded with rapid population growth, suggests that the situation may
have worsened somewhat in the last few years.
Other Uses of Water
3.        Besides the provision of water for direct human consumption,
adequate water supply plays an important role in production and economic
activity. It is a central factor in industrial production and
agricultural processing. Water enters into the manufacturing processes
in a variety of ways, i.e. as an ingredient, a solvent, a coolant, or a



cleansing agent. In Mexico, the share of industrial and commercial
consumption of the total output of the water operating agencies amounts
to nonly about 102 (if total consumption.  This low figure reflects the
fact that many inlustries have their own water supplies given the
unreliability of many municipal systems. Industrial and commprcial
water demands will increase as the economy develops and industrial
growth could be constrained If water is not available.
4.        In terms of sewerage coverage, improvement since 1980 has been
uneven. The 1980 census reported that 49? of the population (32
million) had access to a sewerage system (67Z in urban areas and 12? in
rural areas). The census does not provide information on the type of
sanitation disposal provided. But a government inventory of installed
sewerage treatment plants shows capacity has not been increased to keep
pace. By 1989, it was estimated that 492 of the Mexican population (43
million) had access to these facilities (63? urban dwellers and .OZ of
the rural population), which falls far short of a satisfactory sewerage
service coverage.
5.         Mexico's coverage levels are somewhat higlher than most other
Latin America countries. This is a poor yardstick however. By 1989
some 26 million people still had no access to potable water (13 million
urban and 13 million rural) and about 43 million people lacked
sanitation services (22 million urban and 21 million rural). Detailed
information on service and organization schemes levels by state are
presented in Annex 1.
Water Quality
6.        In general, the present quality of water provided is not
consisteent with Mexico's economic development. Inadequate water and
sanitationx systems have created unhealthy environmental conditions.  In
large and medium-size cities, water is generally available on a
continuous basis; however only 20? of these systems have a reliable
chlorination system. In small cities (under 150,000 inhabitants), the
quality of water is often not bacteriologically safe. As a result,
gastro-intestinal diseases are still one of the leading causes of
morbidity. No estimates have been made of indirect costs to the economy
for gastroenterism and reduced productivity. Pollution of surface and
ground water is increasing the cost of developing future supplies. Many
water supply and sewerage systems need repairs or have become obsolete.
Many areas discharge untreated waste water, causing severe pollution in
rivers and streams; in turn, the downstream use of waste water in
agricultural operatlims adversely affects the population's health since
they use this untreated water for irrigating vegetables. Water
pollution from domestic and industrial waste in several major river
basins has reached serious levels, a problem compounded by poor
operation and inadequate maintenance practices in most waste-water
treatment facilities.
Water Resources
7.        The past fragmentation of water functions and the pressing
immediate problems of the country's economic crisis made the task of



- 6 -
irrelevant. However, this is no longer the case. The economy is now
improving and the Government is taking a more active role in the
management of water resources.  Increasing knowledge and information are
being accumulated, and it will be necessary to integrate them to present
a mote complete picture of the country's present water management
problems and propose actions and solutions.  To integrate tin s
information and knowledge, the formulation of a National Water Plan,
along the linps of p'revious pllans in 1975 and 1981, is proposed.  With
the new Plan conceptual adjustments will be needed to reflect a due
balance between supply-oriented solutions to water problems and demand-
oriented solutions, which take into account water economics and priving.
Su:ch an exercise wtuld involve several federal agencies in the country
and would be undertaken over several years as part of an "in-house"
planning exercise assisted by outside consultants. Because of its long-
tprm duration and complicated institutional arrangements, a separate
project, with possible co-financing, is being proposed for the
development of the Plan.
Sector Institutions and Coordination
8.        Amendments to the Mexican Constitution made in 1983 assign to
municipalities the responsibility for the provision of water supply and
sanitation services. In practice, these services are often provided
with assistance from the state and federal governments. At the
municipal level, a wide spectrum of organizational arrangements exists.
In many communities, the municipality directly manages water supply and
sewerage together with other municipal services, such as street
cleaning, solid waste disposal, and education. Often, revenues from all
municipal services are combined in the general munici-lR budget,
together wJth ftnds from state and federal sources.  A second group of
cities, primarily medium-sized, have created independent municipal
operating agencies (OAs) with varying degrees of autonomy. Many of
these agencies, however, are at an early stage of development and rely
heavily on state and federal assistance for the planning and
construction of their systems. A third group of municipalities - small
to medium-sized - have opted to join state level agencies and delegate
to them all phases of the provision of water and sanitation services.
In this complex mosaic, some separate systems operate throughout the
country with varying degrees of success. Attachment 1 to Annex 1 shows
the type of organization of both municipal and state operating agencies
and their functions.
9.        At the state level, the functions of the water agencies also
vary widely from state to state, but two basic organizational
arrangements have emerged. The first group of state agencies
concentrates its efforts on assisting municipalities in the design andl
construction of water and ,ewerage systems and in the provision of bulk
water. Some degree of technical assistance in operations is also
provided to the municipal agencies. Although municipalities in this
group are responsible for the operation and maintenance of their system,
the separation of construction and operational activities creates
incentives to promote new investments over maintenance of existing
assets. The second group of state agencies provides all water and



sewerage services to member urban and rural communities, from planning,
and construction, to operations, billing and collection.
10.       At the federat level, institutional arrangements have recently
changed.  In the past there was an overlap in the responsibilities of
federal agencies, particularly the Secretariat of Urban Development and
Ecology (SEDUE), and the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (SAPH).  To improve sector coordination, better monitor the
us8 of federal fundls, and promote overall financial discipline in the
sector, a major reorganization occurred in 1990, when the National Water
Commission (CNA) was set up as an autarkic agency under SARH. Seasoned
staff, who had previously worked with SARH, were transferred to CHA.
CNA is now the primary technical sector support agency both in water
spliply and irrigat ion.  For water supply it has sector-wide
respon4ibilities for planning, setting and enforcing technical norms,
assis':ing operating agencies to develop their institutional development
programs, monitoring the performance of the operating agencies, and
helping them t.o prepare annual action plans to improve their
performance. In addition, CNA reviews, in coordination with the
National Development Bank for Public Works (BANOBRAS), the Secretariat
for Planning and Budgeting (SPP), and the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (SHCP), the sector annual investment plan, and coordinates
with the Mexican Institute of Water Technology (IMTA), also under SARH,
and the National Association of Water Supply Operating Companies
(ANOAPA) the design and implementation of the National Training Program.
CNA also develops policies and priorities for the use of water, and
administers the use of water resources. While CNA has the lead in
delivering federal assistance to the states and municipalities, SEDUE
will continue as the normative authority responsible for water pollution
control and the protection of the environment.
11.       To help coordinate and standardize state sectors need with
federal and state plans and resources, State Water Supply and Sanitation
Subcommittees (SWSs) have been created in all states. The SWSs
represent all sector-related federal and state agencies, and are the
focal point for sectoral planning at state level. The main
responsibilities of SWS are to! (a) coordinate sector activities: (b)
set sector priorities for water use; (c) select communities where water
and sanitation services will be implemented; (d) propose annual sector
investmenit plans; (e) assign state financial resources; (f) monitor the
application of sector funds and propose recommendations to improve
sector efficiency: (g) propose to the state Congress the tariff level
and structure; (h) promote Institutional development programs for state
operating agencies: and (i) promote private sector participation. CNA
acts as the technical secretariat of each SWS. Figure 1 shows the
organizational scheme for thie sector.



-8-
FIGURE 1
SECTOR ORGANIZATION SCHEME
National Water Commission
(CNA)
Norms and Assistance
l
State Water Supply and Sanltation
Subcomnmittees (SWS)
Decentralized State
Agencies   (SWA)                       Municipality
Programming Assistance           Operations, Design and
and Operations                         Construction
Society
Sector
Representative
Communal
Participation
I I
Management Groups                        Board of Directors
Decentralized Municipal
Agencies (OA)
Systemst Populations greater
A   l   B        | C  |            than 150,000 people
Systems: Population less than
150,000 people



C. Sectoral Issues
12.       The nusst. important sectoral issues inivolve:  (a) organizational
arrangem9nts withini the federal, state and municipal water supply and sewerage
agetcies; (b) federal financing policies; (c) investment planning and
analysis; (d) tariffs and commercial operating practices; and (e) water
pollutlon control and water resource management.
Organization
13.       As Indicated in para. 10, setting-up CNA has been a major advance
in unifying and coordinating federal assistance to the state and municipal
agencies. only one federal agency now provides assistance, from the
development of water sources through the use and disposal of water. Also, the
formation of the SWSs is a further step in the right direction. However,
serious organizational issues still must be addressed within the state and
municipal agencies.  CNA is in the reorganization process to respond better to
its mandate. In the short run, 2 to 4 years, CNA's staff should improve its
skills with the assistance of seasoned consultants that will help to develop
sound project analysis procedures, supervision, and operation and maintenance
guidelitnes. This will enable CNA to provide relevant technical assistance to
OAs (para. 44).
14.       At the municipal level, many water supply and sanitation agencies
have beetn created without regard to the limited local capacity to plan and
operate an efficient service. The experience in Mexico, not at all unique
among other countries in the region, indicates that water and sanitation
services in small municipalities (under about 150,000 inhabitants) are
confronted with diseconomies of scale as well as operational constraints.
These utilities cannot afford to pay salaries that will attract competent
management adti operating personnel, and the critical mass necessary to allow
specialization in pslanning and maintenance is not reached. Consequently,
independent municipal agencies in small, often poor, cities are not viable
from an institutiontal, techniical, aud financial perspective.
15.       Another practice that encourages inefficiency in some
municipalities and state agencies is the assignment of constrtuction,
operations, commercial and financial responsibilities to separate
institutions. Consequently, the basic elements for financial accountability
are often lost, and the links betweeni supply and demand and between sounld
investment expeniditures and soclo-economic justification are weakened.
Furthermore, many municipalities which have opted to directly operate water
anid sanitation services jointly with other municipal services have not been
effective. This has resulted in lack of financial discipline and in
undesirable subsidies actoss different services. These problems are
exacerbated and may he more diffirult to surmoulnt because of the expectation
by the public that the municipalities should provide water and sewerage on a
subsidized basis.
16.       The Mexico City Metropolitan Area, where growth has been explosive
and natural water resources are extremely limited and polluted, presents a
particularly acute organizational problem. Responsibilities for construction,
commercializatiotn, finance, and operations are divided among several agencies



- 10 -
operating within the region at the ministerial, federal district, state, and
municipal levels. Furthermore, the problem is compounded by the lack of
coordination among these agencies.  At thie operational level, unaccounted-
for-water and unregistered connections are high (over 40Z), metering of
consumption is low, and collection of tariffs is deficient. A full service,
self-sufficient metropolilan agency needs to be established in the Mexico City
region as a way to improve efficiency and to reduce large direct and indirect
subsidies that are channeled to this area.  The proposed sector loan is not
considered an adequate instrument to help tackle the size and complexities of
the difficulties presented in Mexico City. Therefore, Mexico City
Metropolitan Area is excluded from the present operation. Also, Monterrey and
Guadalajara, the second and third largest urban cities in Mexico, have other
sources of financing and are, therefore, excluded from the proposed project.
17.       The Federal Government is aware of the organizational problems at
both the state and municipal levels. A principal objective of the proposed
project would be to assist the Government to implement organizational changes
to improve the provision of se-vices nationwide. Since the provision of water
and sanitation services is a municipal responsibility, account has to be taken
of the individual circumstances and olbjectives of each region and
municipality. Thus, while it is clear that small municipalities cannot be
forced to adopt organizational or financial improvements, they can be
encouraged to do so by the partial allocation of federal funds to
municipalities willing to imptlement the changes.  To this end, it will be also
necessary for the state agencies to become more efficient so the economic
advantages of association become more obvious. Furthermore, a condition for
providing federal assistance under the proposed project would be the
establishmetnt of indepen(ldnt water agencies of sufficient size to allow for
efficient operation. During negotiations assurances were obtained that after
August 31, 1991, BANOBRAS will only sign subloans with established independent
water and sanitation agencies (para. 74.II-(d)). This condition has been
approved by the Goveriunent and all states have been informed of the niew
policy.
Federal Financing Policies
18.       A major sector constraint is the heavy dependence of local
uttilities on grant funding from federal sources. An analysis of investment
funding made from 1981 to 1986 indicates that over 90Z of total investment
financing came from federal and state sources on a grant basis. In addition,
in the past, even when federal financing was made on a loan basis, the
interest rates were highly subsidized. State resources have also been
provided in the form of grants to cover operational and routine maintenance
costs. Furthermore, the availability of alternative federal financing options
with substantially different conditions, for essentially the same purpose,
sent conifusinig signals to the operating agencies and led to a very inefficient
use of financial resources. Not surprisingly, municipal authorities tried to
elicit all the political influence they could muster to access the most
concessional funding sources. Because of the availability of grant financing
and subsidized financing, tlhe operating agencies, in general, have had little
need to generate sufficient internal resources to fund the expansion of
facilities, and their adequate operation and maintenance.



- 11 -
19.       In light of the large investment requirements of the sector, a need
for federal financing will continue to exist. However, such assistance should
be increasingly provided on a full-cost recovery loan basis, so that the
operating agencies receive the proper incentives to operate efficiently and
the funds can be recycled, thus reducing the drain on federal resources. In
February 1988, the Government implemented a policy to set interest rates for
the loans to the sector at the average cost of funds for the banking system
(CPP). Subsequently, under the June 1989 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, it
was agreed that Interest rates wouldt not he below Treasury bill (CETES) rates,
and that all subsidies through interest rates (other than for small
agticultute producers) would be eliminatedl.  This procedure will eliminate
hidden subsidies. Of equal Jmportance, in August 1990 agreement was reached
between CNA, BANOBRAS, SPP, and SHCP on integrated policy guidelines for all
federal sector project financing. Federal and state grant resources would be
mixed with loan funds (federal and foreign resources) and will be allocated in
accordance with the poverty index developed by CONAPO (see Annex 2) based on
various parameters obtained from census data. The index takes into account
such factors as income levels, rural population in the municipality,
education, housing and service levels, age distribution and net migration
rate. As a result, poorer municipalities will receive a higher portion as
grants. Over time, the grant element will be reduced across the board. The
operating companies will have to generate net internal funds to contribute to
finance the construction of their subprojects. Each year, during the Annual
Review of Sector Plan of Actions (para. 57) the average contribution target
for new subborrowers will lie defined for the next year after reviewing the
Annual Investment Plan. For the sector as a whole, it was agreed that the net
contribution to investment floors would be set in the Annual Review in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. Both the Bank and the Mexican authorities
agreed in an August 24, 1990 aide-memoire that such floors would be in the
range of 15Z for 1991, 201 for 1992 and 1993, and 252 for 1994 and thereafter.
This agreement has beetn confirmed at negotiations (para. 74 I-(a)). At
negotiations, the Mexican Government also confirmed the rules to allocate the
mix of grant and loan fttnds to the operating agencies, including requirements
for internally generated funds (para. 74 l-(b)). A program to reduce overall
subsidies is presented in Annex 4.
20.       A potential source of conflict exists between the financing
criteria proposed under this project and the newly created Programa Nacional
de Solidaridad (SOLIDARIDAD). This program, designed to improve the standard
of living of the poor, finances, on a grant basis, water and sanitation works
in rural and in some urban areas. In fact, however, there are competing
demands for the funds from this program from communities which do not rank
among the poorest.  It is questionable that, as now implemented, the program
will achieve the intended objectives. On August 24, 1990, it was agreed to
limit the target group of this program to avoid conflicts with the lending
policy proposed in the paragraph above. Prior to negotiations, the Mexican
Government confirmed this agreement to link SOLIDARIDAD funding in the water
and sanitation sector to the same criteria and norms that are designed for the
proposed project (para. 74 I-(b)).
21.       In addition to the actlons to reduce subsidies and increase
internally generated funds, CNA is also proposing to promote private sector
participation and financing. The private sector could help to improve sector
efficiency and to help remove the budget constraint to a faster pace of



- 12 -
service growth. Since the private sector participation in the provision of
water and sanitation service is minimal in Mexico, CNA proposes to undertake a
study to identify bottlenecks or restrictions in current public contracting
and water secttr laws which discourage private sector participation and to
make recommendations to improve the situation. The study would also develop
procedures and model contracts for various types of private sector
participation (i.e.. operations management, long-term contracts, concessions
for bulk water supply, water treatment, system operations, etc.). Finally,
the study would help develop a strategy and implementation program for the
futture (see Annex 6 for outline tetms of references).  During negotiations,
Government agreed that CNA will complete the study by September 30, 1991 and
exchange views with the Bank regarding the study's recommendations by January
31. 1992 (para. 74 I-(c)). Under the project, funds would be available to
finance private sector participation in the provision of water supply and
sanitation services.  Due to the lack of Government's lending experience to
private companies in the water sector, and to take into account the study's
recommendations, each subloan to private companies would be subject to prior
Bank approval (para. 74 II-(a)).
lnvestment Planning and Analysis
22.       A need exists to strengthen the planning capacity of the sector
agencies, particularly at the state and municipal levels. The absence of
least-cost analysis in the sector has led to poor investment decisions. It
has been documented in many projects financed under Bank loans that a least-
cost analysis enabled a reduction in investment costs of 50-80Z of those
originally proposed. This deficiency in project preparation can be attributed
to( four main factors: (1) the preference for new works over rehabilitation;
(2) the lack of an adequate engineering analysis to determine the optimum
capacity of existing and planned infrastructure; (3) poor choice of
technology: and (4) the premature construction of works. The absence of
least-cost analysis in sector investments can also be traced to the system of
grant financing and the absence of cost recovery where little incentive exists
to plan effectively and conserve resources. In addition, under past
arrangements the community views ahout a proposed project were seldom taken
into account, and project designers at the federal level were often far
removed from the specific project surroundings, lacking familiarity with the
needs *f the community, and with the water or sanitation systems they were
called upon to design or improve.
23.       To improve investment planning and analysis a number of actions are
included under the proposed project:
a)   The operating agency would be responsible for project planning and
execution, with assistance from the states, CNA, and consultants;
b)   Satisfactory preparation of an integrated feasibility study, which
would include the study of alternatives and least-cost analysis,
and financial and institutional analysis, as well as an
environmental assessment (para. 31), would be a condition for sub-
loan approval (Annex 5); (para. 74 II-(b));



- 13 -
c)   To strengthen the operating agencies and principal planning
capacities, adequate funds would be allocated in the sub-projects
to meet technical assistance and training needs (para. 45);
d)   Technical assistance and training would be included in the project
to strengthen both CNA and IMTA's investment planning capacity and
to enable them to provide support, together with ANOAPA, to the
state organizations and operating agencies (para. 44).
Tariffs and Commercial Practices
24.       Water tariffs in Mexico, by far, are not sufficient to cover
operating and investment costs. Rates average about US$0.07 per cubic meter,
.-hich is very low as compared to an average incremental cost of services of
US$0.30 to US$0.50 per cubic meter. Residential rates are also low in
relation to blue-collar incomes. The monthly bill the average domestic
consumer pays for 30 cubic meters represents only half of a daily minimum
salary and for a basic consumption of 10 cubic meters, 182 of a minimum daily
salary. In addition, average water rates to commerce and industry are
estimated to be only about 30% of the long-run marginal costs of providing the
service. Furthermore, in many cities no explicit charges are made for
sewerage services. Low tariffs encourage excessive consumption and waste of
resources which, coupled with the lack of incentives for conservation, creates
the demand for more services at the expense of lower population coverage. As
a result, investment funds are not generated and those without services, the
poorest, suffer and pay significantly higher prices to private water vendors.
25.       In most water and sewerage agencies, water services are not metered
(estimated to be the case in about 702 of all connections). In addition,
sound accounting and internal control systems, all of which are necessary for
an efficient operation, have not been established. The deficient
organizational arrangements whereby the costs of operation of water supply and
sewerage services are combined with those of other municipal services does not
allow the separation of cost components. Often operating costs are high
because of high administrative costs and poor operating practices. In
general, little control and accountability exists, and the basis for
calculating service costs, both operating and capital, often bears no
relationship to tite tariffs charged.
26.       To enhance cost recovery, the proposed project would require:
a)   as a condition of sublending for a large subproject, every
subborrower should have in place tariffs that would at least cover
its operating and maintenance expenses (excluding depreciation).
If an operating agency were unable to meet this condition, it would
only be eligible for financing for a small subproject (less than
US$1.0 million) for technical assistance and emergency
rehabilitations (para. 74 II-(c));
b)   a comlitment, under the conditions of the subloan, from every
subborrower to inctease water and sewerage rates in accordanice with
a satisfactory initial timetable, to be agreed upon prior to such
lroject approval. These tariffs, for large subproject
beneficiaries, would cause operating revenues to cover operating



- 14 -
expenses plus debt service and to generate net internal funds to
contrilbute to fund their investment program (paras. 74 II-h (al)
and (a2)) and would be reviewed yearly in accordance with the
results of the Atnual Review of Sector Plan of Actions (para. 57);
c)   a commitment from the subborrower to implement commercial
accounting and internal auditing systems and to revalue annually
its assets within two years after the signing of the subloan (para.
74 II h(a3)). CNA has agreed to prepare guidelines to revalue
fixed assets by December 31, 1991, so as to statndardize this
procedure nationwide (para. 74 I-(d)); and
d)   a commitment from the subborrower to carry out an institutional
development program whlich, as needed, would cover planning, design,
construction, administration, finance, commercialization,
operations and maintenance. This plan would include agreed
monitoring indicators (paras. 53 and 74 II-h (a3)).
Water Pollution Control
27.       Lack of control of municipal and industrial water waste discharges
is a major concern. In 1987 an estimated 57Z of waste volume discharged from
municipalities was from industrial sources. In terms of organic load, the
total annual discharge was 36Z of municipal and 642 of industrial origin. The
bulk of these discharges is spatially concentrated in some 20 river basins.
with 902 generated by only 180 municipalities (that is, by 7.5Z of all
municipalities), 502 by the ten largest cities, and 30Z by Mexico City alone.
28.       Lack of waste-treatment facilities and inadequate or even poor
operation and mainteuance of existing ones create major obstacles to sound
environmental and public health protection. In 1989 only 65? of the urban
population was connected to sewer systems.  Most industries connected to
mtnticipal sewers generally discharge their effluent without any pre-treatment.
Of even greater significance, waste treatment is provided for only a small
percentage of the sewage collected. In 1983 municipal sewage-treatment plants
had an installed capacity equivalent to only 152 of total municipal effluent,
and Industrial waste plaints lhad an installed capacity able to process only 9?
of total industrial ef tuent. Furthermore, since most of the plants are not
futictioning properly 31, the effective treatment capacity is less than 5-10Z
of total effluent discharge.
29.       Although water-pollution control has been a key objective of water-
resources planning in Mexico over the past two decades, it still remains a
distant one. Successive studies have identified the most heavily polluted
river basins and the main sources of pollution including municipal and
industrial discharges, as well as agricultural runoff. Control strategies
have been formulated and regulations enacted, but the effective implementation
of control and enforcement programs has yet to be achieved.  In the proposed
lroject, an integrated approach to reducing water pollution would be taken.
31   For example, a 1983 survey of the 233 municipal plants indicated that
35Z had a deficient operation and 45Z were out of service. Subsequent
studies indicate the situation has not improved.



- 15 -
Iiivestments in waste-water treatment works would be prioritized according to
criteria that seek to maximize environmental benefits through cost-effective
solutions. Efforts would be concentrated on integrated pollution control
activities via a pilot subcomponent of the proposed project involving the
Lerma-Chapala Basin.  This basin was chosen because:  a) it is highly
contaminated, b) it serves Guadalajara City and several industrial corridors
outside of Mexico City, and c) recently 26 new treatment plants have been
built in the basin.
30.       In addition to the measures outlined in the preceding paragraph,
the project would put emphasis on strengthening the institutional capacity of
the operating agencies to operate, maintain, control, and monitor waste-
treatment facilities. Furthermore, an institutional development program would
be initiated that would focus on strengthening CNA so that it can provide
technical assistance, training and supervisory support to the states and
municipalities. Terms of reference for consultants to assist CNA in this area
and a satisfactory plan to fill relevant positions have been agreed. By March
31, 1991, CNA should engage these consultants (para. 74 I-(e)).
31.       All subprojects will require an environmental impact assessment as
a condition of eligibility for a subloan (Annex 5). Such assessment would
evaluate the environmental impact of the proposed subproject and would propose
measures to mitigate any adverse effects. CNA through its well staffed (Sub-
directorate of Water Resources, would make each such assessment in line with
CNA's pollution-control priority approach (para. 33-(e)). Failure to
subsequently implement the proposed measures would be a condition of default
under the subloan (para. 74 II-(h) (a4)). In addition, assurances would be
sought for each subproject that the operating agency would adjust the tariff
structure of water supply and sewerage services so that the recurrent costs of
waste-treatment plants are fully recovered. During negotiations, agreement
were reached with the Government on a water-quality monitoring program, to be
implemented during project execution, which have well defined targets (para.
57).
D. Government Sector Strategy
32.       In line with its overall decentralization strategy, the Government
is committed to support the delegation of water supply and sewerage services
to municipalities. This action allows the people most affected by the
services to have control over them. The chlallenge to the Government is to
help the municipalities carry out this responsibility efficiently. To meet
this challenge, the Government has recently undertaken a major sectorial
restructuring program with the formation of CNA, which will now spearhead
Government efforts within the sector. This reorganization was a condition for
continuing project preparation.
33.       In line with the Government's decentralization policy, CNA has
developed an overall strategy to address the development of the water and
sanitation sector. The strategy:
a)   defines service level and investment targets by adopting a medium-
term (1990-1994) sector investment plan with clearly identified
targets, priorities, and investment levels and incorporating
financial constraints;



- 16 -
b)   adjusts the financing policy for sector investments to reduce
reliance on central government contributions and increase the
resource mobilization capabilities of the operating agencies
through internal cash generation, and encourages the participation
of thie private sector in construction, operation and maintenance
through concessional schemes;
c)   establishes a more responsive and effective sector organization at
the national level with institutions capable of providing
leadership and assistance to the sector, and of enforcing policies
conducive to improving sector performance to accelerate an
efficient sector growth;
d)   seeks to develop the capability, at local, state, and national
levels for promoting environmental programs to address pollution
issues, in particular those brought about by the discharge of
untreated municipal waste water;
e)   establishes a more responsive and effective water-pollution control
policy, with clear priorities for investments;
f)   seeks to upgrade the performance of operating agencies through the
introduction of a more efficient institutional framework at local
and state levels;
g)   establishes a new sector lending policy that links the provision of
credit to a commitment by credit beneficiaries to strengthen their
management, administration, operations and finances, and sets
standards and more selective criteria for project eligibility;
h)   is expected to reduce the per-capita costs of sector investments
through the formulation and implementation of more cost-efficient
and appropriate design standards and technologies; and
i)   seeks to upgrade the skill levels of sector personnel through the
development of a sector training center and the execution of
appropriate training programs.
E. Prior Bank Involvement and Sector Strategy
34.       The Bank has been involved in five water supply and sanitation
projects in Mexico: Loans 909-ME (US$90 million; 1973), 1186-ME (US$40
million; 1975), 1913-ME (US$125 million; 1980), 2281-HE (US$100.3 million;
1983); and 3101-ME, (US$20 million; 1989). While the earlier projects
successfully increased service levels in medium-sized cities, the
establishment of an appropriate institutional framework and of sound cost-
recovery policies was not accomplished. This was due mainly to the limited
ability of the national agency that assigned these functions (SEDUE) to
provide technical assistance to local institutions as well as to the lack of
adequate commitment to the objective of cost-recovery. The ensuing problem of
insufficient revenues was compounded by unnecessarily high investment costs.
A number of sub-projects rejected under Bank-financed programs because they
were not least-cost solutions were later financed by other sources. The main



- 17 -
lessons learned from these projects point to the importance of developing
self-sufficient water agencies, community support, and adequate designs that
reflect local needs and willingness to pay. In June 1988, a sector report
(Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Study - Institutional and Financial
Constraints, 7109-HE) outlined the institutional and financial constraints in
the sector and provided a basis for the preparation of this project.
35.       The Batik's strategy in the sector supports the Government's
objectives and seeks to promote the following:
a)   the development of efficient and financially independent operating
agencies;
b)   the implementation of organizational reforms to deal with water
supply in an integral manner, from its source to its disposal;
c)   the unification of federal and state financial assistance to the
operatitng agencies under standardized criteria and conditions;
d)   the protection of the environment and the improvement of water
quality;
e)   the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the federal,
state and operating agencies; and,
f)   the development of mechanisms to encourage private sector
participation.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
36.       The proposed project grew out of an intensive dialogue between the
Government and the Bank conducted during the preparation of the sector report
referred to in para. 34. This lead to the formulation of a Water and
Sanitation Sector Reorganization Program, which is spelled out in a CNA-
prepared document called: "Lineamientos" (available in the Project File). The
proposed project seeks to help implement the Reorganization Program. Between
the initial visit in November 1988 and the appraisal in June 1990, several
Bank missions assisted in the preparation of the project. IDB is also
preparing a companion project (US$350 million) which is being appraised. IDB's
project would follow the conditionality proposed under this project. For
administrative convenience it has been agreed that IDB's funds will finance
subprojects in Southern states and the Bank's funds will finance subprojects
in Northern states. The Bank, BANOBRAS and IDB have agreed to conduct annual
consultations to review the list of eligible states for funding by each
institutions.



- 10 -
B. Project objectives
37.       The overall objectives of the proposed project are to improve the
quantity and quality of water supply and sanitation services, support the
institutional development of the sector, promote sound pricing policies,
progressively reduce the need for Government funding, expand service coverage
and improve environmental conditions in Mexico. This will be done by
financing a US$300 million slice of the US$4.5 billion 1990-1994 sector
investment program. Specific objectives of the proposed project are to assist
Mexico in:
(a)   reducing the amount of subsidies to the sector;
(I')   strengthening the Institutional framework at the national level
thtrough: (i) developing a strong technical support and
monitoring agency (CNA); (ii) strengthening the financial
intermediary (BANOBRAS) so as to improve its technical
expertise to enforce the conditionality of its subloans; (iii)
establishing a permanent human resources development
institution (IHTA) to develop and implement a comprehensive
training program for all levels of sector personnel; and (iv)
doing a study of the legal framework and the development of
model contracts to promote the participation of the private
sector in the provision of water and sanitation services;
(c)   promoting at the state, regional and/or municipal level, the
develolpmetnt of adequately sized agencies (public or private)
thiat would have operational and financial autonomy so as to be
able to operate and maintain water and sanitation systems
efficiently;
(d)   providing by the end of 1994 water supply and sanitation
services to about 24 million additional people, most of whom
would belong to the poorer segment of the population (works
financed by tlhe proposed project would directly benefit about
3.2 million people); and
(e)   improving the environment hy implementing a pilot water
pollution control program to: (i) develop, test, and adjust
national water pollution control policies and regulations; (ii)
strengthen the capability of the agencies responsible for
implementing water-pollution control programs, with special
emphasis on operational capacity and enforcement of
regulations; (iii) build up adequate water-quality monitoring
programs and the corresponding information systems for
enforcement activities; atd (iv) help ensure that all projects
and programs are supported by sound environmental assessments.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
38.           With the assistance of the Bank, the Government has embarked on
a major reform of sector policies and institutions that is expected to
accelerate sector development and promote efficiency improvements. Continued
Bank support, both through the provision of financial resources and advice



- 19 -
would help to gitide the reform processes being undertaken by the Government.
in addition, the objectives of the project fully coincide with the Bank's
country and sector strategies aimed at providing water and sanitation services
to low-income populations, rationalizing public expenditures, stimulating
domestic resource mobilization and cost recovery, as well as promoting more
efficient public sector management, increasing private sector participation,
rationalizing pricJng policies, achievinig improved water quality, and
upgrading environmental conditLions.
D.   Sector Service Level Targets, Investment Program and Financing
39.       Mexico had set out to achieve the targets of the International
Water Decade that implied complete coverage of its population with "safe
water" and sanitation by the year 1990. The difficult economic adjustments of
the 1980s, combined with weak sector planning and low efficiency of
investments, made the achievements of these goals not feasible. Mexican
federal sector authorities now plan to provide piped water and sewerage
services to 942 and 82Z of the population respectively by the year 2000. To
obtain maximtun health benefits, the total population served with piped water
services (or within easy access in rural areas) should also receive sanitation
service. Also, facilities to treat the sewerage will be needed.
40.       These targets, albeit short of full coverage, are very ambitious.
Achieving them would require supplying another 36 million inhabitants with
water and 43 million with sewerage service by the year 2000. To meet these
service levels the total investment requirements for the period are estimated
at US$17.2 billion (representing 0.72 of GNP per year). To gain some
perspective, the required annual investments are twice the levels reached in
the 1971-1978 period and about four and a half times the levels from 1981 to
1986 41. It is most unlikely that the year 2000 targets can be met,
particularly under the present fiscal constraints and the still low cash
generating capacity of the agencies. While the targets and levels of
investments are uncertain, they do provide a framework to orient sector
policies.
41.       For the initial part of the next decade from 1990-1994, the
Government 1i9 proposing a more modesL, but still ambitious, investment program
which amounts to about US$4.5 billion:
4/   It shoul(d be noted that the above investment requirements have been
estimated assuming improved efficiency and based on unit costs of
representative projects financed under loan 2281-ME or on average costs
of similar project components in the Region.



- 20 -
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Estimated Investment Plan 1990-.194
(Millions of USS)
1990      1991      1992    1]J93      1994    Total      Z
Water Suipply   206.1    674.1    695.6    690.8    728.1   2994.7   66.5
Sewerage         63.7    232.6    252.1    247.0    238.0   1033.4   23.0
Treatment        16.0    121.5    107.5    112.9    117.6    475.5   10.5
Total           285.8   1028.2   1055.2   1050.7   1083.7   4503.6  100.0
42.       The proposedl program entails an almost fourfold increase in annual
investments over the amounts invested in 1980-1990.  The implementation
capacity of the operating agencies will be taxed by the effort but it seems
feasible. The Mexican construction industry, which is well developed, is able
to meet these increased demands. The program will emphasize the improvement
of existing operations and maintenance before undertaking large new
investments. In addition, the Plan shows an important increase in
expenditures for sewerage treatment. This increase reflects the desire of the
Govertnent to place increased emphasis on sanitation and improve environmental
conditions.
43.       The proposed estimated Investment Plan, although modest relative to
the needs, will require a major change in financing policy. As may be seen in
thie financing plan that is provided below, the water and sewerage operating
agencies ate expected to increase internal cash generation in order to
positively contribute to sector investments. The operating agencies will need
to generate funding not only to contribute towards the initial investments.
but later also for the repayment of the subproject loans. Also, additional
funding sources must be identified to ensure the financial feasibility of the
proposed investment plan. The financing gap seems manageable considering the
good sector record in obtaining supplier's credit. However, if such financing
is not available the investment and financing plan would be reformulated in
consultation with the Bank. During negotiations, the Government's proposed
investment and financing plans were confirmed and their contents were found to
be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 74 I-(g)). In addition, during the
implementation of the project, the updated annual water supply and sanitation
investment and financing plans should be presented to the Bank for review and
conment by November of each year (para. 74 I-(g)).



- 21 -
Sector Financing Plan
1990-1994
(Billions of US$)
Total Investments                                         4.5
To be funded by:
Domestic Financing
Federal Government                                     1.5
State                                                  1.0
Net Internal Cash Generation                            0.5
of the operating Agencies
External Financing
World Bank                                              0.3
IDB                                                    0.2
Other borrowings                                        1.0
Total funding                                          4.5
E.   Pro3ect Description
44.       The proposed loan would finance a part of the proposed Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector Investment Plan and would include the following two
components:
NATlONAL. This US$61.4 million component to be executed by CNA includess
(a)  assistance to CNA and training for its staff ins (i) subproject
preparation and evaluation, under the new national policies: (ii)
review and updating of existing technical norms and parameters for
the design, construction, and maintenance of the water supply and
sanitation systems; (iii) design and implementation of a sector
monitoring system: (iv) assistance to operating agencies in their
institutiotnal development programs; (v) strengthened environmental
assessment capability; (vi) specialized studies to provide or
update the basic information needed to define medium- and long-
term water-pollution control strategies and policies (such as,
pollution from toxic substances and nonpoint sources, waste
minimization and reuse strategies, effluent regulations, standards
and fees, and investment priorities); (vii) a pilot environmental
project in the Lerma-Chapala Basin, which would also provide the
opportunity to test the institutional, legal, technical, and
financial schemes currently being considered; (viii) financing for
the physical infrastructure needed for the National Water Quality
Monitoring Program and the implementation and operation of the
Water Quality Information System, which includes equipment for 5
regional and 22 state laboratories and for field sampling and
analysis; (ix) review of existing legislation and carry out the



- 22 -
private sector participation study to develop recommendations to
promote private sector participation In the sector (Annex 6); and
(x) financing for the preparation of a follow-up project. During
negotiations the Guarantor agreed to allocate sufficient funds for
CNA and IHTA to implement this component (para. 74 ?-(h))l
(b) strengthening of IMTA's National Training Center throughs (i)
upgrade of training facilities in Cuernavaca; (ii) purchase of
training materials and equipment; (iiI) development and
organization of a management and technical training program for
sector petsonnel, Including the execution of a training program for
sector managers and staff:
(c) strengthening BANOBRAS in the following areast (i) project
preparation and evaluation: (11) procurement; and (iII) monitoring
and evaluation systems; and
(d) stupplying technical assistance to undertake a study, prepare model
contracting documents, and implement promotion programs and develop
a strategy to encourage the participation of the private sector in
the provision of water supply and sanitation services.
STATE AND LOCAL. This would be the main project component, with a total
estimated cost of US$589.5 million. It would provide a line of
credit to municipal, and/or state water and sanitation agencies and
to private providers of water sttpply and sanitation sqrvices, to be
administered by BANOBRAS in full compliance with the agreed upon
sector policies, to fund investments to be made under the 1990-
1994 Investment Plan; subproJects would become eligible for Bank
financlng by complying with agreed upon criteria (para. 74 Ir-
(d)), which are outlined in Annex 5. The eligible subprojects
would involve the rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and
sanitation systems, including sewerage treatment plants, work
supervision, and institutional strengthening of subproject
executing agencies. The Bank has reviewed the first-year
investment plan and found it to be sound (Annex 7, shows the
sample's project description and the financial indicators of the
water and sanitation agencies of the sample).  Project
implementation arrangements are presented in paras. 52 to 59.
F. Project Cost and Financing
45.       Pro3ect Cost.  The'cost oZ the Bank's project is estimated to be
US$650.9 million equivalent, including interest during construction. The
costs of the institutional strengthening programs are estimated in accordance
with prevailing cost of materials and services. About 2,340 months of
consulting services are included. Of this total, about US$512.9 million
(78.8? of total) would be directed towards financing investment subprojects
(US$282.7 million to water supply and US$230.2 million to sanitation).
US$19.9 million (3.1 of total) would fund technical assistance; US$28.5
million (4.42 of total) to prepare feasibility studies and final designs; and
US$4.7 million (0.7Z of total) would finance the needed equipment to upgrade
CNA's laboratories. The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$300.0 million, about 46? of total project cost. Annual investments by
project component are presented in Annex 8. Project cost includes US$84.9
million (13.12 of the total) as provision for taxes.



- 23 -
Table 2.1
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US$ million)
2 of
Component                Local        Foreign     Total        Total
1. National
CNA                    0.3         3.0          3.3         0.5
BANOBRAS               0.8        0.6           1.4         0.2
IMTA                   2.0        2.9           4.9         0.8
Studies & Designs      7.1       21.4          28.5         4.3
Pilot Poll. Control   0.3         0.2           0.5         0.1
Training Program       3.9         5.7          9.6         1.5
Laboratories           0.5        4.2           4.7         0.7
Prep. Follow-up Proj. 0.1         0.1           0.2      <  0.1
Subtotal National  45.0        38.1          53.1         8.1
2. State and Local
Water supply         141.4         141.3       282.7        43.4
Sanitation            87.5         87.5        175.0        26.9
Sewerage Plant        22.1         33.1         55.2         8.5
Subtotal S&L Comp.  251.0         261.9        512.9        78.8
Subtotal Proj.Cost  266.0         300.0        566.0        86.9
VAT                   84.9            -         84.9        13.1
4. Total Project Cost  350.9          300.0       650.9       100.0
Project Financing
46.       The project financing plan includes the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan, equity contributinms from the federal and state governments to OA,
and OA's internal cash generation. The Bank loan would cover about 46Z of
total project cost. The participation of the Bank and IDB would take place
through two parallel operations. Both are expected to be processed in close
coordination. The IDB loan is already appraised. The Bank loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace period at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
5/   Individual project compyonent includes physical and price contingencies
of 102 and 142, respectively.



- 24 -
47.       The cost sharing arrangements betweesz the federal and state
governments have been defined and agreed upon on the basis of state income. To
ensure this contribution during the negotiations, the Federal Government
agreped to budget aned disburse in a timely fashion its contributions required
for the project execution (para. 74 I-(i)). The local participation would be
defined on a case-by-case basis taking into account the financial soundness of
the OA, which will be assessed in each feasibility study. It was agreed that
every subproject will call for between 602 and 10? of subproject cost to be
financed by internal cash generation; for private companies the minimum
contribution would be 25Z; this is a departure from past practices, when
investments were totally funded mainly by grants or by debt financing on
subsidized terms.  This local participation in investment choice should
increase the efficiency of resource allocation.
48.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be transferred by BANOBRAS to
the Guarantor in accordance with the Normatividad applicable in Mexico to Bank
loans, and subsequently the Guarantor would lend a portion of the proceeds
back to BANOBRAS in pesos for on-lending by BANOBRAS to the OAs. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Guarantor and BANOBRAS shall provide to the
Bank an executed contract, satisfactory to the Bank, describing these
Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfer and relending procedures (para. 75). For the
State and Local component, BANOBRAS would on-lend to the OAs through subloans,
in Mexican pesos, at a minimum varialble interest rate, sufficient to cover the
cost of fund to BANOBRAS (CETES), with repayment up to 15 years, including up
to three year-grace period and the guarantee of the states for the public
companies. For the national component, budgetary allocations would be assured
(para. 74 I-(h)). BANOBRAS would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risk on the Bank loan, but since the CETES rate is market determined it
reflects expectations about inflation and devaluation. On October 23, 1990,
the CETES rate stood at 27.82?.
49.       The project financing plan appears in Table 2.2.
TABLE 2.2
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Z OF
SOURCES OF FUNDS                      LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL    TOTAL
IBRD                                     -      300.0      300.0      46.1
Federal Government                   122.4        -        122.4      18.8
State Govertunents                   130.5        -        130.5      20.0
OA's Internal Cash Generation          98.0       -         98.0      15.1
TOTAL                                350.9      300.0      650.9    100.0



- 25 -
G. Project Execution
50.       Institutional Responsibilities.  The Borrower and executing agency
for the proposed project would be BANOBRAS (see Annex 9). BANOBRAS would be
responsible for overall project execution bys (a) approving subloans to the
OAs through its state delegations or its Mexico City offices (for projects
over US$200,000); (b) supervising project execution by each OA and monitoring
compliance with subloan conditions; (c) participating in each SWS; and (d)
preparing and sendinig to the Bank semi-annual reports on the execution of the
project (para. 58). BANOBRAS would on-lend in full compliance with the agreed
criteria and would not change subloan conditionality without previous approval
from the Bank (para. 74 II-(i)). BANOBRAS, in order to carry out its
obligations, should: (a) hire consultants to assist BANOBRAS in its technical
assistance program. the timetable and terms of reference of these consultants
should present to the Bank not later than March 31, 1991 (para. 74 II-(e));
and (b) maintain and, if necessary, add additional staff with the necessary
skills and experience (para. 74 II-(f)).
51.       CNA would be the technical agency responsible fort (a) applying,
modifying, and monitoring sector-development policies; (b) preparing
technical standards: (c) assisting implementing agencies in project
preparation, construction, and works supervision; (d) providing technicel
assistance to operating agencies in their institutional development programs;
(e) participating in each SWS as technical secretariat: (f) developing and
implementing, in coordination with IHTA and ANOAPA, the National Training
Program; (g) monitoring and publishing the annual performance indicators of
the operating agencies; (h) preparing annual action plans to improve the
performance of the operating agencies: and (i) implementing the Water-
Pollution Control Program.
52.       Implementation Arrangements.  To ensure the efficient execution of
the project, while taking into account the major sector reforms needed, the
following programs have been agreed upon with the Mexican authorities.
53.       Monitoring of Water and Sanitation Agencies.  CMA is developing and
would Implement a monitoring system that would review the performance of all
agencies providing water supply and sanitation services. Indicators to be
monitored would relate to service coverage and quality, efficiency indicators
(i.e., employees per 1000 water and sewerage connections, unaccounted-for
water, sewerage treated, number of complaints per day, cost per cubic meter
sold), financial performance indicators (i.e. operating ratio, rate of return,
debt/debt+equity, accounts receivable, net cash generation as I of total
investments), tariff levels and structure, salaries, training programs, and
turnover of management positions. CNA would publish a report on the status of
performance of OAs every year beginning in 1991 (paras. 74 I-(j) and 74 II(h)-
(aS)); thlis report would provide a sound basis to evaluate ongoing performance
of OAs and help less developed agencies to understand their problems (para.58)
54.       Monitoring the execution of the National Training Program. IMTA,
ANOAPA, and CNA have designed a National Training Program to be implemented in
1990-1994 (Annex 10).  CRA would be responsible for monitoring the program as
well as proposing revisions when it believes them to be necessary. Annually



- 26 -
CNA would submit to the Bank by June 30 of each year a report including the
following intormations (a) definlitlon of sector training priorities for the
following year; (b) percentage of the present year's training program
executed; (c) details of thie following year's trainiing program. which will be
determtined according to the OA's needs: and (d) information concerning
tralninlg fatJlittes and equilment (paras. 58 and 74 I-(3)): the Mexican
Government should furnish to the Bank a satistactory signed contract for
strengthening IKTA's capabilities to carry out the National Training Program
with quialified consultants by March 1, 1991 (para 74 I-(j)).
55.       Plan of Action to Improve OA's Performance.  CNA would assist the
sector agencies in the organization and implementation of their institutional
development programs (called CONSOLIDACION - Annex 3, para. 5).  The Bank
would closely supervise this assistance, especially during the first period of
project execution. To etiable CNA to provide the assistance to sector
agencies. external consultant support would be provided. As a first step in
this program, CNA has identified 30 municipal water operating agencies and 12
state water operating agencies that will be assisted and would become the
future models.
56.       Subproject preparation and pipeline.  During 1989 a team of
engineers headed by the CIIA's Sub-director of Hydraulics, economists, and
financial analysts have beeni working with OAs in the promotion and preparation
of a pipeline of subprojects.  A significant potential demand exists for
sector investments and. at the same time, there is an acute shortage of well
prep)ared and sound subprojects. So far, CNA/BANOBRAS have identified
subprojects having a total cost of about US$450 million. They have already
prepared satisfactory executive project summaries for twelve subprojects
having a total estimated cost of about US$95 million. These subprojects are
in an advanced state of preparation and are expected to be approved by
BANOBRAS by DecemBer 1990. The Bank has received fully satisfactory analyses
(including technical feasibility, economic evaluation, and environmental
assessment) for the first year of the investment program. A major effort,
hiowever, is needed to transform identified needs into a pipeline of well-
prepared, feasible subprojects. To boost its immediate project preparation
capability during 1990, CNA is htring external consultants who are assisting
potential subborrowers to prepare subprojects. After 1990, while CNA will
continue to provide financing for consultant services, the OAs will be
responsible for lilting and directitig the consultants with CNA's assistance.
tlnder the proposed project, funds would be available to CNA for the financing
of consultant services for subproject preparation. A free-limit of US$ 10
million for approval of subprojects to public sector subborrowers without
prior Bank review, has been agreed (para. 74 I-(a)). All subloans to private
companies would be subject to prior Bank review and approval (para. 74 II-
(a)).
57.       Annual Review of the Sector Plan of Action.  Annually in November,
tlhe Bank antd the Governimpnt. would conduct a foLmal joint review of progress
made in reaching the objectives of the Sector Reorganization Program and in
the implementation of the proposed project. The annual Sector Plan of Action
Review would provide an opportunity to discuss project issues such ass the
approved sector investment programming and financing; institutional
development advancements; performance (if CNA, BANOBRAS, IMTA, and OAs;
compliance with subloan covenants; tariff and cost-recovery policies; the



- 27 -
quality of subproject preparation; implementation of a water-quality
monitoring program; and execution of the training program. During this
review, it will assess BANOBRAS compliance to follow only the agreed sector
policies in all its sector lending. The discussion and analysis of the issues
experience during the year under review, would lead to the formulation of
adtjtstments and, if necpssary, remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank.
Monitoring indicators for the sector as a whole are presented in Annex 11.
58.       Reporting.  BANOBRAS would prepare a semiannual progress report to
be submitted by September 30 for the semester ending June 30, and by March 31
fotr the semester ending December 31. The progress report would cover past
achievements and compare them with appraisal projections and goals set forth
in the Plan of Action, and present a critical assessment of problems and
issues arising during project execution. In cases of unsatisfactory progress,
this report would also detail proposals for adjustments and remedial actions
(para. 74 II-(g)). CNA would prepare an annual report on OAs' performance
which should be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30 of the year
following the period to whichi it refers (para. 74 I-(j)) and the monitoring
information of the National Training Program (para. 74 I-(j)).
59.       Auditing.  BANOBRAS would continue to have its financial statements
audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would review
the external auditors' terms of reference to ensure that they include the
audit of the Special Account and SOEs. BANOBRAS, in turn, would require each
OA to engage external auditors satisfactory to BANOBRAS to audit their
financial statements and project accounts (para. 74 II-h (a7)). The Bank
would selectively review the beneficiary OA's audit reports. BANOBRAS' audit
report would be presented to the Bank annually no later that June 30 (para. 74
II-(g)), and the OA's reports would be furnished to BANOBRAS within six months
of the close of each OA fiscal year (para. 74 II-h (a7)). Through semi-
annual progress reports BANOBRAS would inform the Bank of any important issues
identified by the auditors of the OAs and of any cases of noncompliance with
these commitments, together with the remedial actions taken. CNA and IMTA
would keep project accounts that would he audited by the Contraloria General
de la Federaci6n and their report would be furnished to the Bank not later
than June 30 of the following year (para. 74 I-(m)).
60.       Project Supervisiotn.  It is expected that at least three
supervision missions per year staffed by a sanitary engineer and a financial
analyst will be required to supervise the proposed project during the first
three years of execution (1990-1993); in addition, a training specialist, an
envirotmental expert, and an appropriate technology specialist should
accompany the supervision missions during the early stage of the proposed
project implementation period (1991-1992).
H. Procurement
61.       OAs would carry out procurement under CNA supervision; GNA would be
directly responsible for the procurement of the national component. Standard
Bidding Documents for Mexico agreed with by the Mexican authorities and the
Bank in Cuernavaca in April 1990, will be used during project execution. All
ICB and the first LCB contracts per state, both for acquisition of goods and
for civil works, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other
procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review; CNA



- 28 -
would retain documentation for these contracts for periodic supervision by
Bank staff.
62.       Civil works would represent about 702 of total project cost,
equipment and materials 252, and engineering, consulting services, and
training the remaining 5Z. All contracts that can be packaged to exceed the
equivalent of US$5.0 million for civil works, and US$250,000 for equipment or
materials would be procured on the basis of ICB following the Bank's
lprocurement guidelines. In the case of procurement of goods through ICB
Mexican fitms would be provided a preference margin equal to 152 or the
prevailing duty, whichever is lower.
63.       The Bank has reviewed and found acceptable local procurement
procedures. These LCB procedures would be used to award contracts with
estimated cost below US$5.0 million for civil works and US$250 thousand for
goods up to US$310.0 million in the aggregate for civil works and US$50.0
million for goods. Local shopping based on price quotations from at least
thiree bidders would be used for contracts with estimated cost below US$250
thousand for works and US$50 thousand for goods, up to US$17 million in the
aggregate, each, for works and for goods.
64.       The selection and appointment of consultants for studies, works
supervision, and technical assistance would follow the August 1981 Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by World
Bank as Executing Agency.
65.       Project cost breakdown by procurement method is presented below;
the amount in brackets shows allocation of loan proceeds:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element              ICB        LCB      Other        Total
1. Civil Works              136.0      310.0     17.0 1/    463.0
(62.0)   (139.5)    (7.5)      (209.0)
2. Equipment/materials       90.9       50.0     17.0 1!    157.9
(47.0)    (20.5)    (7.5)       (75.0)
3. Training and                 -         -       30.0        30.0
technical assistance                          (16.0) 2/   (16.0)
TOTAL                       226.9      360.0      64.0       650.9
(109.0)   (160.0)    (31.0)    (300.0)
1/   Shopping from at least three suppliers.
2/   Proposals from short list of consultants according with Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants.



- 29 _
I. Disbursements
66.       The Bank has estimated that loan proceeds would be disbursed in six
years, with a closing date of June 30, 1996 (Annex 12), which would be
consistent with the standard disbursement profile for sector projects in
Mexico. Huwever, the Mexican Government seeks to accelerate project execution
and is making considerable efforts to complete the project in three years; in
that case the disbursement profile, Government's contributions and cash
generation would be accelerated. The final date for submission to the Bank of
BANOBRAS subloan proposals would be December 31, 1993 (para. 75 II-(j)).
Table 2.3 presents the percentage to be disbursed by loan category.
TABLE 2.3
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            2 of
tExpressed in Dollar           Expenditures
Category                         Equivalent)              To be financed *t
1.   Equipment, materials,            24,000,000                     80
and civil works, for
National Component
2.   Equipment, materials,           208,000,000                     50
and civil works, for
the State and Local
Component
3.   Consultant services for          15,000,000                    100
implementing the National
Component
4.   nonsultant services for
implementing the State and
Local component                 23,000,000                     100
5.   Unallocated                      30,000,000
TOTAL                          300,000,000
*/   Excluding Value Added Taxes
67.       All disbursements up to US$5,000,000 equivalent for works and
US$250,000 equivalent for goods would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared by BANOBRAS. Supporting
documentatlon would be retained by BANOBRAS and made available for examination
by the Bank staff during supervision missions. To expedite project execution,
a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, with a deposit of up to



- 30 -
US$30.0 million equivalent. In view of the desirability of starting the
project without delays, authorization is sought for retroactive financing of
US$30.0 million equivalent (102 of loan funds) for expenditures incurred after
May 1, 1990. Claims for retroactive financing would have to be made no later
than 90 days after Bank loan effectiveness.
J.   Environmental Assessment.
68.        The proposed ptoject will help improve environmental conditions in
the project areas by implementing national pollution-control policies and
regulations and also by strengthening the capability of the OAs to operate
sewerage-treatment plants, build up monitoring systems for enforcement, and
construct and upgrade sewerage services. However, the extension of water
supply and sewerage services will increase the pollution load in the receiving
waters. To assess its environmental impact, the effect of each new water and
sewerage facility on the environment would be evaluated by CNA and their
recommendations on how to deal with the problem would be reviewed jointly by
CNA, the affected OA, and BANOBRAS to determine the most appropriate course of
action. CNA would assess the environmental impact of each subproject on the
basis of the guidelines outlined in Annex 5, taking into account national
priorities for water-pollution control and proposed remedial actions, if
required, before the new subproject is approved by BANOBRAS.  All these
assessments will be included in a feasibility study. For the first year of
project implementation, all environmental assessments were submitted to the
Bank for prior review and they have all been of satisfactory quality. As a
matter of policy, considering the incipient stage of sewage treatment in
Mexico and the financial weakness of most of the beneficiary OAs, clear
priorities are being established for selecting and phasing in treatment works.
With these safeguards in place, adverse environmental effects arising from the
project are expected to be minimized.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
K. Project Benefits
69.       The proposed project would directly benefit some 3.2 million (of
the 24 million benefiting from the investment plan) people who receive water
and/or sewerage connections. The majority of these beneficiaries would belong
to the poorer segment of the country's population and, in the case of rural
communities, improvements would have an important impact on the welfare of
women as local customs often call for women to walk long distances to bring
water home in buckets.  In addition, the rehabilitation and operational
improvements to existing facilities would provide better and safer services to
an unknown but appreciable number of people. The project investments would
also contribute significantly to improve b)oth public health and the standard
of living among the population receiving services under the project. The
implementation of the Sector Reorganization Program supported under the
proposed loan would bring significant benefits to the country's economy
through sector-internal savings brought about by: rationalization of sector
investments: execution of more cost-efficient projects with lower per-capita
investment costs; improvements in the operational and administrative



- 31 -
efficiency of operating agencies; application of more adequate cost recovery
policies; and increased human-resources development.
70.       To qtualify for a subproject loan, water supply subprojects should
yield a minimum Rate of Return (RR) of 122 to ensure that it is higher than
the opportunity cost of capital in Hexico. In the case of water-pollution
control subprojects the acceptable RR would be 102, since there are
substantial beneflts (externalities) derived from the reduction of pollution
that cannot be easily quantified. Very small subprojects would have to have
acceptable per-capita cost levels (see Annex 5).
71.       Based on a representative sample of subprojects which are being
prepared for Implementation during 1990 and 1991, the average Rare of Return
(weighed by the investment involved) was about 162. The sample of subprojects
was about 202 of the total subprojects, in amount, that the Bank is proposing
to finance. In the economic evaluation of projects, a conservative
methodology has been used in which the benefits have been measured according
to the tariffs that the consumers pay. In other words, no benefits have been
attributed to the difference between what consumers are willing to pay for
water services and what they are actually paying (consumer surplus). In
addition the true ERR would be significantly higher than the RR, since the RR
does not quantify additional social and health benefits associated with the
provision of a reliable and safe water supply and adequate sewerage service.
L. Project Risks and Safeguards
72.       The reforms of sectoral institutions and policies being undertaken
ly the Government is an ambitious and complex task, and its successful
Implementation will require a sustained effort by the Government in the years
ahead. Although major steps are already being implemented (i.e. the creation
of CNA, the approval of sound sector policies, agreement on training among
CNA, IMTA. and ANOAPA), the following risks remains (a) inadequate levels of
counterpart funds caused by Government delays in distributing its
contributions or inability of CNA/BANOBRAS/OAs to raise sufficient funds from
domestic resources; (b) lack of coordination between federal programs (i.e.
the proposed project and SOLIDARIDAD), thus creating the possibility of softer
funding for sector invest.ments that would delay the achievement of efficiency
improvement goals; (c) delays in subproject preparation, evaluation, and
execution because of insufficient operating capability of the OAs; and (d)
BANOBRAS being forced to relax on subproject conditionalities, particularly in
the tariff area, because of political pressure from central or local
govertments.
73.       Although the conditionality contains remedies and plans of action
to address these risks (annual review of investments program and of overall
program performance, agreed-on fInancing and lending policies, technical
assistance to strengthen CHA, IMTA and BANOBRAS), the Government's firm
determination to provide sector services in a more efficient manner is the
most important safeguard in this area. Nevertheless, intensive Batik
supervision of the project and decisive actions by the Bank in case of
unsatisfactory performance are essential. The Annual Review of the Sector
Plan of Actions would play a key role in detecting shortcomings and making
adjustments leading to performance improvements.



- 32 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
74. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
I.   From the Government:
(a)   to cause the sector to achieve net contributions to investment at
a level that would be satisfactory to the Bank, as determined
during the annual sector reviews, and which should be in the
following range: no lower than 15Z for 1991, 20? for 1992 and
1993 and 252 for 1994 and thereafter (para. 19);
(b)   confirmation of the rules agreed upon at appraisal to allocate
the mix of grants and loan funds to the OAs, including
requirements for internal cash generation as well as to confirm
the agreement to link SOLIDARIDAD funding in the water and
sanitation sector to the same criteria and norms that are
designed for the Water and Sanitation Sector Project (para. 20);
*c)   to cause CMA to complete the Private Sector Participation Study
by September 30, 1991 and exchange views with the Bank regarding
the study's recommendations by January 31, 1992 (para. 21);
(d)   that CNA will. prepare guidelines to revalue fixed assets by
December 31, 1991, as to standardize this procedure nationwide
(para. 26);
Ce)   that CNA will engage consultants under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank for its technical assistance program by
March 31, 1991 (para. 30);
(f)   to cause CNA to carry out its institutional development program
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 30);
(g)   confirmed the proposed investment and financing plans, which is
satisfactory to the Bank, and agreed to update and present to the
Bank, for review and comments, the proposed annual sector
investment plan by November 31 of the preceding year (para. 43);
(h)   to allocate sufficent funds for CNA and IMTA to implement the
National component of the project (para. 44);
(i)   to budget and dislurse in a tJmely fashion its contrilbutions
required for project execution (para. 47);
(j)   to cause CNA to establish a sector-monitoring system and publish
every year, beginning March 31, 1991, a report on OAs
performance and furnish it to the Bank, and the monitoring
information of the National Training Program no later than June



- 33 -
30 of the year following the period to which it refers and IHTA
submits to the Bank a satisfactory signed contract with qualified
consultants by March lst, 1991. (para. 54);
(k)   to cause BANOBRAS to follow only the agreed sector policies in
all Its sector lending, participate in the annual reviews of
project execution and execute the agreed Sector Plan of Actions
(para. 57);
(1)   to cause CNA to carry out jointly with the Bank an annual review
of project execution and execute the agreed Sector Plan of Action
(para. 57); and
(m)   to cause CNA and IHTA to keep project accounts that would be
audited by the Contraloria General de la Federacion and their
report should be furnished to the Bank no later than June 30 of
the following year (para. 59); and
II. From BANOBRAS
(a)   that all subloans to private companies (para. 21), and subloans
to public sector companies above US$10 million will be subject to
prior approval by the Bank (para. 56);
(b)   that, as a condition of subloan approval, the subborrower should
prepare a satisfactory integrated feasibility study, whlch would
include the analysis of alternatives and least-cost solutions,
nd financial and institutional analysis, as well as an
environmental assessment (paras. 23 and 31);
(c)   that, as conditlon of sublending every subborrower should have in
place tariffs that at least cover its operating and maintenance
expenses (excluding depreciation); if an operating agency were
unable to meet this condition, it would only be eligible for
financing small subproject of less than US$1.0 million for
techniical assistance and emergency rehabilitation (para. 26);
(d)   that after August 31, 1991, BANOBRAS only sign subloans with
established independent water and sanitation agencies (para. 17),
and only finance subprojects that comply with the agreed upon
criteria (para. 44);
(e)   to carry out Its institutional development program, at the
national and state levels, in accordance with the terms of
reference and timetable satisfactory to the Bank, which should be
presented to the Bank before March 31, 1991 (para. 50);
(f)   to maintain and, if necessary, add additional staff having the
necessary skills and experience to carry out Its obligations
under project execution (para. 50);



- 34 -
(g)   to present to the Bank semPilnual progress reports and its audit
reports in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 58 and 59);
(h)   to suspend dlsbursements to subborrowers not complying with
important provisions of a subloan agreement, in particular the
tollowig:
(al) to provide internal cash generation to the construction of
the subproject according to the results of the Annual
Review of the Sector Plan of Action (para. 26);
(a2) *to maintain a tatiff level covering their operating and
maintenance costs plus debt service requirements and
resulting in a net contribution to investment not lower
than agreed for project approval, as reviewed under the
Annual Review of the Sector Plan of Action (para. 26);
(3)  to carry out in a timely manner the agreed institutional
development program and implement a commercial accounting
and internal auditing system and annually revalue its
assets within two years after the signing of the subloan
(para. 26);
(aA) to carry out the water and sanitation component of the
project in a manner satisfactory to CNAIBANOBRAS and
implement proposed measures to protect the environment
(para. 31);
(a5) to report to CNA their monitoring indicators to be
published annually (para. 53);
(a6) to support the National Training Program by allowing and
creating incentives to their staff to participate, in an
institutional development program (para. 54); and
(a7) to have their financial statements and project related
accounts by subproject audited annually by external
auditors satisfactory to BANOBRAS (para. 59);
(i)   not to change subloan conditionalities without previous approval
from the Bank (para. 50); and
(j)   that the final date for submission to the Bank of subloans
proposal should be December 31, 1993 (para. 66).
75.       Condition of Effectiveness
To declare the proposed loan effective, the Government must furnish
to the Bank an executed contract, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the
Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfer and relending procedures (para. 48).



- 35 -
76.       With the above conditions met, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a loan of US$300 million equivalent to
BANOBRAS, repayable in 17 years and including a 5 year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
November 8, 1990
A



- 36 -
ANNx 1
Page 1 of 3
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR LOAN
Mexico Water and Sewerage Services (1980)
PROPORTION OF POPULATION
STATE                     POPULATION         WATER HOUSE      SEWERAGE
(thousands)        CONNECTIONS
Aguas Calientes               519.4                 84.2           66.9
Baja Calif. Norte           1,177.9                 77.0          52.8
Baja Calif. Sur               215.1                 75.4          39.9
Coahuila                      420.6                 54.0          29.3
Campeche                    1,557.7                 85.0           56.2
Colima                        306.3                 82.4          50.4
Chiapas                     2,064.7                 43.0           23.0
Chihuahua                   2,005.5                 81.0           52.3
Durango                     1,182.5                 75.1           37.0
Guanajuato                  3,006.3                 80.5          54.9
Guerrero                    2,109.1                 62.8          34.0
Hidalgo                     1,547.5                 57.6           25.4
Jalisco                     4,372.5                 79.6           64.1
Mexico                      7,564.0                 79.8           54.5
Michoacan                   2,868.8                 70.0           43.7
Morelos                       947.1                 62.0           42.5
Nayarit                       726.1                 69.5           32.4
Nuevo Leon                  2,513.1                 89.3           69.4
Oaxaca                      2,369.0                 45.0           22.3
Puebla                      3,347.1                 55.8          34.7
Queretaro                     726.0                 59.0           54.9
Quintana Roo                  276.8                 69.0           24.6
San Luis Potosi             1,673.0                 52.0          33.0
Sinaloa                     1,849.0                 64.9           32.9
Sonora                      1,513.9                 82.8           45.0
Tabasco                     1,063.6                 58.6           32.8
Tamaulipas                  1,924.0                 80.9           48.9
Tlaxcala                      556.6                 79.4           56.0
Veracruz                    5,387.7                 45.9           33.1
Yucatan                     1,136.7                 60.1           32.4
Zacatecas                   1,136.8                 56.9          24.3
Federal Dist.               8,831.1                 94.5           82.0
Total                      65,889                   70.0           49.0
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e Infornmatica
Censo General de Poblacion y Vivienda - 1980.



nIUt                nUU gm                    I            UU *111                     U1114 1311111           n        w            "O             *           IU                         Ull    IlaIla                                             MD.
ISW                 11U    333                                      13a ll                                             1111 t 4llJ1331                                                                  s311                 132                    AM 3II
u SWt l l                                     iul    Big    ugll333  313 5 1353kwUZI s2lu33                      3111N                lNI                                                 -                                                        Alld
UU3                 IIU    1333               W          UIIU   111G                   M5WdlUlXll              03331z3              035                         3338    8333               1U13          5*15                              3W   13W
ntl     l    ls          sill       lilt       IsisA1                      311Wm 1133 1113                                                                                           31                  13                    1     5 '
UU                  UU    nl 335               U         Ult 1       U                 Ulik3lnlUl               *lWINU3               wai                       Ull3*ilt                    Ia           Ull                                nit   1                        '
till        insl            Ull          IIU                  till                                     03M5 .   l
U3*        3338          lilt       U33        u                   All * 338533              33123                  *
a,ut       nil           Sl         nuitl      Jul                 Al       3Xa ff
ni                  iUU WI                               UU  UUUll                     UlltmS 3                                                                 U3*         til 111 1                    nU                   SU                    1111                 gm
UU3                 3313        WU            111        WII        333U               111311313                3 3338133            523                        33         13333                        313                  II3U                 5 3                   3*15
SW 35u 1I                           3131          lI33       IUU    3Ul                     31l5ldl33l3l            I03=I3                 W1I                      sill    Ul1                 133           lU                   WI                     m3m                   m1$
uu                  Il3    3333 1111 1111                           113 m43113 IIU1INU                                              03                          lot hm
f  3381                 33l1       till          a1l3       all        Ills                4138h33                0313311113          *U33                         Ill 3-*333                                          1333 IIU                IU
WUI                 331    1135  IIU3    3311                       313                Ul313581                513813  i*83                                   -.                        *-               31z1                               33..  .3333
311                 3I5U    ni             -             313    l318                   A11          U           33WuMI3             1431                        l131i         t i-  ill                 iitll                                          a                   ad 35  13
ml                  nUil       sill           II         nu:        sill               ^s11w4X1  Ill10t                        lo     li *1                                                                                                U.4 1111  lltl  111IIl
amItnIUml533 3UI                                         1831  513                         1W131M              431ZW1111333                                   --                            IUI          Ill                               1 11                        11  33
3133                3333       5513                      3838       335s               Uh Su;lit11038              1 U3 101 Glu         'Wm                        -        1333            3383         333                  uu                 .     203N             3
33331  3i                       3 1            111       1111       3331                11313131              G l                       all                     til3 '533                  3ill          Stu                               f31   -bu                    two
tin                 3      11    1 Sul     --            3311       1131                13134331331              31313313O       313353I06                                 -----            lilt                              31ll          3i       33                3031  3
Isis      1111          ----       5ti3        tll             1           310            li*13330          1 11
__ _                  __ __,,                 _          ,_ till . .......              ........................ _ ,, , His . .. _ lv3o    ,NIIM   o i          .....           .           .....         ........ .................. ............._ nil  nu   __ mi     A ....__...._.... _,._....... .
ms    3                          811a3    33113Hs           ist3    U4              U            Z13030          30 33 WSSS331 *1                                                       *131 153                              33 '
33331  *                                            -5-3------- ----AA.........                                                                                        SW U3 33  453---*513    135-343-----.             31          0 03 3AdU             3o1U5
,_,,_,___,,_,,,,_,   _,,_,_,,,_,,,__.,,,,,,,,.................................................................................................... ...  _,    ..   ......... ._...._.._............_. . . .   _ _ . _ - -_.,___-_
sam V311                                                                                                                                 S313    avi
S3i1AxUS AO AOIIVUSI:4Iwuy
ar  1d 0o1S mOILLINvS aw rfS 1iVM
OOIXaS



MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
ADMTNISTRATION OF SERVICES
Slit!  uttflS                                                                                                                 IlrlltitPtt mEItC
_, . _ . ___.__.__~~~~~ ..... . ........................__ ...._ .. . ... ., ... ., . __...__,_.... . .      .........._,_,......._._.......___.....         -_  -  __ - ------  --------- _._ .......     .
staff153    wwi*i                                      ---------- -----MIN FtIIN  --im        --- ----  -3435                           115! or           MA43 or----- -    -.t                                iCt---- -----wintHU.
CtW1RM~.   311131.      lSION        comiSIC.   351431.   TECCASSS.                                  UiiitiAiIU           PEBaloN                     us .  mAini.   Cms;tuc.   BILLION   CU.UCIIOS                  FIUIU
ASS.               S          fIllt                           KIttl        ins            ----        111II ttCIPM I1?                                                                      tilt      1llt      ----i Ul                 tIlt               lilt
DC  Satmait atRlf                      scisi.ntlv      t        in        tlIl      ---f           till      nn
D.C.               SIlK       flit1                             -          ---           t -----     11113tF                                CE      1.t         INitC      I.               tilt      tWit       it1         Jill       li! ln
e.c.s.              wAF       lUt                             ItU          fill                       till                  UC     .         ct It3              IStBAtF ll.                 1111      1til       llt itil                  lllt
I.C.S.   0354  1111            tin          itit                      liii                   9P31.~~~~St     XCIllBAtif          IUtClP31j Itl                          tilt      lltl          l111       Illt               t
see            ucINmu.               hmiiAtPAIT                till       till      fl    itit     n         lilt
cw(E               C4wC  titl                                 im           nt -ill-   til                                    ani              cumuts    tintcwtntt                           Sul   tlt   --                     nil    nn                     Ril1
W=II               s wig                   Kill               lttltttill                  i           111 tltll.                            CEUIT tl                iitilF41t                1lit         i        till         ltl       1t11               111
littO        N        54      till                                                                                           cm             EEtK      .              Cmi imin               tilt      11         tilt          lilt      titl                fill
C     S             WAD       lilt tlt                          -          ---            *----       ----                   cw             i     ta.              iCvtn                     nit      It          tWt           Kil       lilt                 tt
alNI.              XSS                     H Ilt               itl         tilt                       till                                  Dimm .               nUiatP tl?l                 liti      tin        --R- ni1 t                        tnt
00
tC..               WA    tilt                            ,C -i -o --                              -      * tmA                              1I KlUttlD               itI                     fl    titn   ---                   f il    lilt
S U.S IV.  PlItll.                  city                        Mli  tilt      tilt         Itti  til         ill
C0ilI          KCEFtUII.            0iU itPtIV                  1111      lilt t   Illt            fel       lilt
i D                CEP        till                            1111til  tin                fill        Itill                   Ct  lIIf               D           UICltPitt                   it        tilt      lilt           ti ItI   tllt                li
JlIStD            sWm        lilt                             ill          Mti           l          tilt    1    1     1 1 O..            C11I1M                  tclmii            t         ltill l           lit o         Mt        till                lilt
il4F             CEtN*t.           lN wt .                          till      till        lilt  fill        Jl
fEIICD             cim                     nil                 it   1111                  ---         Util                   sA             CMtEII D                ICIPAIV                  tl lilt               i- - tl                  lt                lttil
Wil a               DM        ntil         ---                                            ----_-_ *--                    .                           Z CElWPItt  lIC i31t ll   til  illt flit                                     l       fill t    9         lilt
:i.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
1.           In August 1990, SPP, SHCP, BANOBRAS and CNA developed a new
system of federal financial assistance to the municipalities. This
system is based or. the capacity of the municipality to pay for the
services provided. In other words the poorer the community, the higher
the grant element of the financial package. The difficulty is finding a
objective measurement of the financial capacity or wealth of each
municipality. GDP or incomes are not calculated on a municipal basis.
Fortunately, however, the National Population Committee (CONAPO). has
devised a poverty index (PI) based on various parameters obtained from
the General Census. The index takes into account such factors as income
levels, rural population, education, housing and service levels, age
distribution, and net migration rate. A full list of the factors taken
into account in the calculation of the poverty index is shown below.
2.           The advantage of the index is that it is based on objective
data from the 1980 census and that it is not based only on one criterion
which may be subject to wide variations and errors. Furthermore, a new
census is now underway and results should be available early next year.
3.           The variables used in calculating the Poverty Index are:
1.          Percentage of Economically Active Population which earn up
to one minimum salary.
2.          Percentage of Economically Active Population in the
agriculture sector.
3.          Percentage of illiterate population under 15 years old.
4.          Percentage of houses without water.
5.          Percentage of population under 15 years old without primary
education completed.
6.          Percentage of houses without electric energy.
7.          Percentage of houses without sewerage systems.
8.          Percentage of population between 25-29 years old.
9.          Percentage of municipal population in localities of less
than 5000 inhabitants.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
10.         Percentage of houses with one and two rooms.
11.         Rate of net migration.
4.           The PI is used to determine the maximum federal and state
assistance as well as the minimum of the credit componient and internal
cash generation in the financial mix of funds of each subproject at the
municipal level.
5.           The PI classifies municipalities into three categoires or
degrees of poverty:
PI High   >I - 7.5
- 7.5 >/    PI Medium >/ - 19.99
19.99 >     PI Low
6.           For all subcontracts to be signed in 1991 the following
riteria will be applied:
PI              Credit            Federal and State         Internal Cash
Generation
High               0                        80                   20
Medium            35                        50                   1S
Low               50                        35                   15
7.           In view of the importance attached to the need to protect
the environment and to strengthen the merger of financially sound and
autonomous operating agencies, able to provide good services, the above
scheme is modified exclusively for the following type of subprojects or
subprojects' components:
a)          Specific sanitation works (human originated waste-water
treatment facilities and other low-cost works) within
priority areas for treatment; and
PI              Credit            Federal and State         Internal Cash
Generation
High               0                        90                   10
Medium            20                        70                   10
Low               25                        65                   10
b)          Short-term and low-cost priority actions (below US$1
million), geared toward the strengthening of service
administration and system rehabilitation (this program is
called 'CONSOLIDA- CION').



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
PI              Credit            Federal and State        Internal Cash
Generation
High              0                       100
Medium           20                        80
Low              30                        70
8.           In the case of tourist areas with explosive growth, such as
Huatalco, Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo, Cancun, etc., and the large metropolitan
areas In the country, the general poverty criteria and consequently the
financing criteria are not applied as indicated above. In these
particular situations, the amount of credit in the mixes could even be
looz.
9.           The general poverty scheme will be reviewed and modified
according tot
The results of the 1990 Census.
-           The performance of the operating agencies.
10.          The Annual Sector REview in November of each year will
define these limits for the next year. It also was defined that the
Internal Cash Generation (ICG), in average, will be as followst
Year              1990         1991        1992         1993       1994
ICG                 -           15          20           20         25



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
BYLAWS OF THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SUBCOMMITTES (SWSs)
1.        On all subprojects the credits will be linked to a specific
institutional development program of operating agencies as to facilitate
their transformation into agencies capable of providing adequate
services.
2.        In those particular cases where the operating agency receiving
the credit does not execute the subproject. The operating agencies must
first agree upon the work and institutional development program. In
these situations the operating agency will participate in the
supervision of works.
3.        As to the internal situation of the operating agencies, the
credits will be granted to those that:
a)     Show a degree of autonomy.
b)     Initially cover all their operational and maintenance costs
with their operational income and gradually, within a period
of three years, will also be able to cover the debt service
and make a reasonable contribution to investment.
c)     Agree to implement commercial accounting systems and to
revalue their fixed assets within the two years immediately
following signature of the subloan.
d)     Agree to call for bids according to agreed upon processes and
documents.
e)     Have an adequate legal framework to operate with autonomy or
else are involved in a process to change the framework in this
direction.
f)     When warranted, commit themselves to implement specific
actions geared toward increasing their collection performance.
These requirements are part of an overall program to institutionally
strengthen the operating agencies, a plan that must also include both
priority short-term-impact actions and internal commercial development
actions (Table 1). The operating agencies not meeting these
requirements may receive financing for an institutional development
program only.
4.        Financing must be developed in a comprehensive manner so as to
include all components and actions inherent to a subproject:



-  43  -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
a)   Long-term works.
b)   Sanitation.
c)   Institutional development.
S.        Consolidation.  Most operating agencies lack the technical and
administrative capabilities to provide and upgrade services. In
response to an existing backlog of unmet services demand, the Water and
Sanitation Sector Reorganization Program was created in May 1989. One
of the most important actions of this Plan is the program called
CONSOLIDACIONO (Consolidation), which aims to promote at state,
regional and/or municipal level, the development of adequately sized
agencies that would have operational and financial autonomy so as to be
able to operate and maintain water and sanitation services efficiently.
The Program's core consists of a multi-disciplinary working team
appointed at the federal level. This group will assist operating
agencies by providing such support as personnel training, analyses of
agencies' diagnoses, and recommendations for action as well as project
monitoring and support. Implementation of programmed agency activities
will be in the domain of the SWSs; direct implementation will be the
responsibility of the operating agencies, which will receive CNA
support.
6.        According to their own priorities and the corresponding
diagnosis, agencies must allocate the resources in one or more of the
different components indicated below.
TABLE 1 - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIONS
I       * TRAINDQ  * COCIAL  * FSNANCIAL   * SATION  * SOCIAL   C D
S IBL    ASP      AOtUNSSRAYSVE   SYU              COMMUNICATION4  I 0 E
S$ LSSAt          IS5                                          NNv
T                                                             T Ne
I FRAIEU( * TW4ICAL  - wMIn     - ACC0MNrINC   PLANNM * CUSTOMER  a E L
T        ASSISTANCE Y REgSUTRY    TS)tY            SRVICE     R R 0
U TO A041V                                                   NC p
T    E    D4MOVsENr CR;AIN AM   - WPM        IONITORINO       A I N
I  AmTo   OF TECMICAL  ILNGRESOURCES                          LA E
o        SKILLS                                                 L N
N                                                                 T
A        -   UO.L.YSON  - ORGANIZATION
L
D                 PRIGRITARY StORT-Tint4 DIPACT ACTIOCN
V * DllRASTRUIM R94ABIUTATION. SUBSTYIUTION AND STROTMENINO        S
e                                                                  14
L * IE<S 01ACO, MInlO)                                             O I
o                                                                  RNH
P * PrTOETP
N                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
E * OID4SNFTION                                                    T C
N                                                                  E T
T   * COMPUrER EIJT Er49                                           R
* ROISILITATION OF SElAOE TREATNIB FACILITIin
NOTE: MAXIMM FINANCING ESTABLSHE AT US81 KILLION.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Program to Reduce Subsidies
(1,000,000 of US Dollars)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   TOTAL
TOTAL INVESTMENTS               285.9  1028.3  1055.2  1050.6  1083.7  4503.7
FEDERAL EXPENDITURES WITHOUT DDF
cNA                               10        89      89      54       36     371
Sectorial Program                  89     243      202     199      168     903
Monterrey                          12       30      25      15        8      89
Guadalajara                         3       29      50      36       24     141
Solidaridad                        18      18       18      18       18      89
DDF
- Investments                     109     107      104      94       90     503
- Operations Est.                 179       43     107      71       36     536
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                513     659      595     487      380   2,632
FEDERAL REVENUES
Water use tax                     196      214     232     250      268   1,161
FEDERAL SUBSIDY                   317      445     365     237      112   1.471
INDICATORS
Federal Expend./Invest.(Z)      179.3    64.1    56.4    46.3    35.1    58.4
Subsidy/Invest. (X)             110.9    43.3    34.6    22.6    10.3    32.7



- 45 -
AM=EX  5
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Conditions for Subproject Eligibility for Bank Financing
1.        A feasibility study would be prepared, for each proposed
subproject, in accordance with agreed upon guidelines for project
preparation. It should correspond to the least-cost solution. A
summary of the feasibility study to be sent for Bank review has been
agreed with CNA and BANOBRAS.
2.        The beneficiary city would have formed an autonomous water
supply and sanitation agency or a state water agency which would be in
charge of operation and maintenance of water and sanitation services and
should have established charges that would at least cover its operating
and maintenance expenses (excluding depreciation) by the time of
approval of a major subproject. lf an operating agency were unable to
meet this condition, it would only be eligible for financing for a small
suproject (less than US$1 million ) for technical assistance and
emergency works.
3.        For all subprojects the rate of return (RR) should be at least
equal to 122, with the following exceptions:
(a) Subprojects to be carried out in cities with populations of
less than 10,000 inhabitants should have a per capita
construction cost for its water and sanitation systems of less
than the equivalent of US$200 (in 1990 prices) for each
system.
(b) Subprojects components financing only sanitation works or
technical assistance and emergency works (less than US$1.0
million), would be subject to a minimum RR of 10X.
4.        The subloan agreement with BANOBRAS should include the
financing plan and explicitly specify the mix of funds and the minimum
percentage of internal cash generations required and should follow the
agreed subproject Evaluation Guidelines (Attachment).
5.        Present a satisfactory assessment of thp environmental impact
of the works proposed, which should be based on agreed guidelines.



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Subproiect Evaluation Guidelines
1.   Background
1.1       These guidelines have been prepared to help design subprojects
consistent with the policies and priorities establishpd by the
Government to strengthen the sector. Such projects should help develop
strong state and municipal companies that can provide adequate water
supply and sewerage services at minimum cost.
1.2       A subproject is the sum of one or more components from three
main categoriess (a) institutional strengthening programs; (b)
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. and (c) construction of new
facilities. These categories are listed in descending order or
priority. The composition of a subproject, however, should be tailored
to the specific needs of a given municipality or state.
1.3       The analysis of a given subproject seeks to establish the
priority of the proposed components, its consistency with sector
policies, and its contribution to improve the delivery of services in a
municipality. This analysis also aims to ascertain that neither the
subproject nor its components adversely affect the environment and that
their benefits equal to exceed their costs.
1.4       Several steps should be followed to perform this analysis in a
systematic and effective way. It is first necessary to assess, at least
in general terms, the organization in charge of executing the subproject
and operating the services: how effective is its commercial system, the
efficiency of its operations, and how well is its staff qualified to
perform the assigned functions and provide good service.   Secondly, it
is necessary to evaluate, in general terms, the whole municipal water
supply and sewerage system as well as assess both the existing and
future demands for these services. Feasible alternatives to remove
instituti0nal and physical constraints can then be explored, compared,
and selected thus leading to development of subproject components. The
end result is an investment and action plan designed to improve the
lperformance of the company and its capacity to meet future demand at
minimum cost. Finally, an environmental assessment and a benefit-cost
analysis is done to ensure that the proposed works meet acceptable
environmental protection standards and minimum net benefit requirements.
2.   Institutional Strengthening Programs (CONSOLIDATION)
2.1       All programs directed towards improving the efficiency of a
company in delivering water and sewerage services should be justified on
the basis of a general assessment of its overall organization and main
organizational units, of the effectiveness of its commercial and



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
accounting system and of its operations, and of the training needs of
its staff. Otn these bases, programs to strengthen the company can be
designed to meet specific needs (Annex 4).
3.   Environmental Assessment
3.1       All subprojects will be screened to determine the degree, if
any, in which potential enviroinmental impacts may occur. Also
considered will by any proposed actions, that will prevent or mitigate
any adverse effects and ensure that the subproject is environmentally
sound and sustainable. Hany subprojects are likely to require only a
limited environmental analysis. Each assessment will include an
evaluation oft
a)   its policy, legal and administrative framework;
b)   detailed drescription of the project and of relevant
environmental conditions;
c)   analysis of positive and negative impacts likely to result
from the project's components;
d)   analysis of alternatives to mitigate any adverse effects and
costs and benefits of proposed remedial actions;
e)   proposed plan to reduce potentially significant adverse
environmental impacts to acceptable levels, its costs (capital
and recurrent) and institutional and training requirements, if
any; and
f)   monitoring plan regarding environmental impacts and
performance.
4.   Demand Analysis
4.1       The evaluatiom of a municipal water sulply or sewerage system
should start with an analysis of existing coverage levels and type of
service provided as well as per capita and aggregate consumption and
production volume. The demand analysis should treat the following
aspects in detail:
a)   Existing coverage levels and type of service provided (total
population, population served, number of house connections,
standpipes, septic tanks, etc.);
b)   Water consumption (based on house connections), preferably
broken down by main users (domestic, commercial, industrial,
official, etc). Metered consumption. Estimated unmetered
consumptiont
c)   Water production.  Metered production.  Estimated unmetered
production; and



- 48 -                         ANNEX  5
Page 4 of 6
d)   Estimates of unaccounted-for water (UFW).  UFW is defined as
the difference between production and metered consumption.
(When consumption is not metered this factor cannot be
ascertained with an acceptable degree of accuracy.)
4.2       The analysis of historical production/UFW/demand should cover
the previous two to five years. ProductionlUFW/demand projections
should be based on the projected growth of house connections or service
accounts and consider the effects of metering consumption, plans to
reduce UFW and improve commercialization practices, and possible price
elasticity effects. Projections should be made on a yearly basis for
the first five years and at five year intervals for a maximum of 20
years. Sanitary sewerage flow demand estimates should also be made on
the basis of the number of connections to the sewer system and
reasonable assumptions on consumptive use and infiltration flows.
5.   Rehabilitation Program
5.1       The evaluation of a municipal water supply and sewerage system
begins with ant enginieering assessment of the main existing comlpoinents of
the system (main physical dimension, materials, condition, reliability,
and capacity).  Major components include1
a)   Water Supply:
intake facilities
Transmission pipelines
Treatment plants
Storage tanks
Distribution network
Punqsing stations
b)   Sewerage System:
Collection pipe system
Collectors and interceptors
Pumping stations
Outfalls
Treatment plants
5.2       This engineering evaluation provides the basis for assessing
the feasibility of rehabilitating the system's components to bring them
up to their optimal capacity at a cost usually lower than that required
to construct a new facility.
11   This list is indicative and should be modified in accordance with
the specific requirements of a given project.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
6.   Optimal Expansion of System's Components
6.1       In determining the optimum investment expansion plan (i.e.,
the least-cost solution), the following aspects should be taken into
accountt
a)   All investment works should be built or expanded as late as
possible, as determined by the demand projection and the
existing capacity of the component under analysis.
b)   Facilities should be sized so as to minimize idle capacity.
Several models are available to determine the optimum size and
sequencing of investments.
6.2       One model often used to determine the optimum size of water
and sewerage works is based on the observation that these works present
economies of scale and assumes a linear demand growth (a conservative
assumption). Based on a discount rate of 122 and average ecoqomy of
scale factors, the following design periods are recommended:1
Intake works .......................... 20 years
Deep wells ..........................  10 years
Transmission pipelines .................. l5 years
Distribution system ....................1 5 years
Water treatment plants  .     ............ 10 years
Storage tanks    .       ................ 10 years
Pumping stations; civil works .......... 20 years
Equipment .................... .. ... . 10 years
Sewerage plpe systems  .      ............ 20 years
Sewage treatment plants  . ........... 10 years
6.3       Design periods greater than those indicated or for components
not shown should be justified by a detailed analysis.  Financial
constraints may justify the use of shorter design periods.
7.   Analysis and Selection of Alternatives
7.1       To determine the optimal expansion program of a water supply
or sewerage system, an analysis of all technically feasible alternatives
should be made and the most promising ones, particularly rehabilitation
works, then costed out (capital and operational costs) and compared on
the basis of discounted total costs on a present value or equivalent
annual basis. The one with the lowest cost should be selected. The
discount rate to use is lZZ. A sensitivity analysis is recommended when
alternatives present similar value or annual costs, this can help in the
selection of the best alternative.
2/ Cost functions can be expressed as C($) - k.Q.a where C ($)
represents the investment cost, k a constant, Q capacity and a
economy of scale factor.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
7.2        it should be remembered that only economic costs enter into
the calculations. Costs should be expressed in constant prices; that is
inflation is not taken into account. Financial and transfer costs such
as interest, depreciation, and taxes should not enter into the
calculations. tHoreover, economic costs to be included are the
incremental investment, replacement, and operational costs associated
with the component. These costs are determined on the basis of an
analysis of the situation "with" and "without the project, which is not
necessarily the same as "before" and 'after" the project.
8.   Project Justification
8.1        All infrastructutre investments should be economically
justified on the basis of rate of return (RR).  The minimum acceptable
RR is 12%. RR calculations should normally be done on the basis of a
time lhorizon of 20 to 30 years.  Shadow pricing Pdjustments are not
normally required.
8.2        Investments related to institutional strengthening programs,
such as improvements of commercial systems, cadastral, and system
surveys, training programs, etc. do not need to be justified on the
basis of a RR.
8.3        As a proxy, benefits are to be measured, when applicable, by
tariffs and other direct contributions from the user based on the rates
in effect in the first year the subloan becomes effective. Savings
obtained by the project, such as postponement of investments and
reduction in operating costs, can be considered as benefits. When these
rates are programmed to increase over time it would be appropriate to
also calculate the RR using, in every year, the rates that are expected
to be applied then.
8.4        Under certain circumstances it is advisable to determine the
sensitivity of the RR to a given benefit or cost parameter. The benefit
or cost parameter(s) to which the RR is most sensitive should be
followed closely during project construction. An adverse change in any
of these parameters should trigger a review of the project and, if
necessary, the subproject or component should be modified to ensure that
maximum net benefits continue to accrue.
8.5        For all main investment components included in a subloan, it
is necessary to develop unit costs and tangible monitoring indicators
that can be easily followed during project execution. These indicators
should be routinely used during project execution as control devices to
ensure that all investments will produce the intended results and remain
cost effective. Unit cost indicators are also intended to create a cost
data bank to be used to improve cost estimates future subprojects and to
help identify cost-effective and replicable programs.



- 51 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Outline Terms of References for Private Sector Partici&ation Study
Introduction
1.        In Mexico, water-sector needs exceed the present Government's
financial and human resource capacity. To accelerate development
considerable interest has been expressed in the idea of tapping private
sector financing and operating skills in the development of water supply
and sanitation services. Some initial experiments of private sector
participation are already underway.   However, the concepts and
potential for private sector participation are little understood and CNA
has proposed to form a working group to investigate the possible needs
and arrangements for further private sector participation.
Obiectives
2.        The main objectives of the proposed study would be to:
(a) make recommendations for changes in public contracting and in
water laws, thus facilitating private sector participation.
(b) prepare model contracts for various types of services.
(c) develop a strategy for implementation of a program to promote
private sector participation.
Scope of Work
3.        To undertake the proposed study, the main tasks would bet
(a) Review in general the main pros and cons of private sector
participation.
(b) Review present public contracting and water laws and identify
restrictions and needs regarding private sector participation.
lc) Review existing private sector contracts and indicate strong
and weak points of existing arrangements.
(d) Make a peeliminary analysis and identification of specific
situations or municipalities where private sector
participation might be advantageous.
(e) Prepare model contracting documents for various types of
services and levels of responsibility. For example, this
might involve (1) investments, maintenance and operations; (2)
maintenance and operations; (3) management and/or; (4) service
contracts in water supply sanitation services, or both.



-  52  -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Levels of responsibilities should range from full profit
responsibilities and risks to cost plus contracted services.
(f) Develop a strategy and action program to promote private
sector participation. This might include making changes to
contracting laws, undertaking seminars, distributing the study
results and model contracts, etc.
Staffing
4.        The proposed study would be undertaken by CNA with assistance
of expatriate specialists who are familiar with private sector
participation in the provision of water and sanitation services. CNA's
team would include at least one planning engineer, a systems operating
engineer and a lawyer.
Timing and Relortina
5.        To prepare the draft final report the proposed study is
estimated to take about three months. One month after the start up of
the study, an inception report should be prepared that would briefly
outline the initial findings, particular difficulties, and the proposed
course of action.



MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Description of Subprojects Reviewed for First Year Implementation
.--------.--------4----*----------*----------f--. ...... .....                               --.......#.......4-- -  , --------................ -...--- -.----- ---
Itily                 I      I~~~~~o tOe CM IPO. iMs.   1A68611.A64                ntitirn       w oaA    wmiBLLo 110111A 618. BOItumCBONO1    LEON    B isUAS   B1Oh@IL6 I cOmIwA   :1Nm;sgno
BPiEmTu FOUAIU                     bob  B    50,8o0      1 20,430 B   $8,253         4,033      60,452      267,606      567,25  B   32,200 B   173,150    1,072,026 B   172,899 I         8,806 B    74,000 1     51,914 2
lESION 8UKU.IU BO bab  B   116,827                       171,286     5$4.002 22    6.2-63 B   8a,484     i61(,497 B PA5,130 B   514,700 ;1136,724 81,355,787 1   213,315 B                 4,9861    186,000 B    87,120 B
101BO1611Y8N                      a"a         2,002 1      2,005 8      2,0048 --                2,080 1      2,010 B      8,495 B      2,000 1      2,01  B     8,9 1        2,0'M   2,    010 I 2,     080 1  2    ,010?m   I
MEFing p83h8l87U                  bib  8     54,336 B    42,856 8   161,709 1       4,033 8   147.M3  .   349,447 1   717.624 B   838,430         161,902 2   215,372 B 100,416 8          3,090 1   101,400 2      17,64 B
1s6I~~~.BT?IN0h1       B~~     B   Lbw      B  8118.1    I    a           N6             A           LON 1118I LLE88I3 B   82188    2                LON 1818.1181811   1t2 18O11   19   B lu 811.11    11I1N   B
. ...... 4  4........#.......  ,.. . .   ..   --..---. ...    ........ --- --- --- 
BI IFUUI S8SCIC       ITY          IOut8         0.24B        0.331        8.36 1      0.011        019 1        0.76 1       2.921       0.9"         0.30 1       1.1501       0."51    -        B      0.20 1       0.30:.
B 80011 C8UC7WI                    I tcIa       8,382 1    82,749 1    57,676 B         6721       7,979 .    37,459 .    97,900 I    55,700          1 6,345 8   13.3,344     26,8136 142:               9,855 I     6,280 I
41113CROMI71I                      I CIO?       5,4181       I,2M31      54,100 1    ...    1          01      34,666I    13,318         44,104 1     16,145 2    ---    I      3,599      --      B01                6.2801
*11046.111. 16T18 FOUIE7ION       I 18.3  B      A.408       6.46 I      35.74 I       0.29 8       7.32 I      23.9  8     77.49 1      30.78 B       9.30 8      59.98        23.00 B      0.01 I       $.u8 1       9.461
81101b181 V67I8 PNT88S7            I 83  1       13.98 8     14.981 8     41.941 1      1.39 2.    13.62 1      36.56 B1  ---    1        37.03 B      19.7s B    182.41 8      36.68 1.      0.29 1       8.20 1      15.71 
:1(KIiM. "To1 coNoiEPl            1631.1c1     39.50 1      48.65 8      58.00 I    --      1      48.56 1     42.92 I   ---             24.41        MI2.4  1    213.80        0.06 1   ---             1 9.00       78.022
BSBuBcRMCCBUFs  ID.I               I I              38 1        591          411    --       8         51I         191          OH4          47           401         391:         48 8    ---     152                    S9t
11t I.ON1amCO818*6I I   I                           81 I        901          918          661         861          761          952          81           731          931         el B    --      I         802          692
I 11U  B8okn 1C0906                I Il            901          99t98                     ooG          908         "            951I         901          908         9I                       t90   100     I0           9
:S -    - -    - - --        4-                                     4-4                       4---.........-4........ ...................--.....-...-.---.
B8161VAE11 M=   INK0EIW 2 13                      0.398       0 .278*      0.70 1       0.048       0.20 1       0,408    ...    I         0.701t      0.6421       3.30 1       0.958        0 .082      0 .06 1      0.20?
181011 SIOATIISNIBN8MN             1.031.81   --      I       0.48 I     -      I       0.05:       0.202        8 .15I   ...    1         0.501t      0.308I       1.00 I       0.851t   --       B      0.76 1       ,.0M 
1P8188531ON Lim81N81*LLT*18    I1to1               3181         12 8    ---     8          2:           I 31       8I           372 I8                    141         91B1         791           61           21          701
MID8STR2Nt13N t1b  DK130111AIUAiN  it  :   NL.   2              932.   ...    I            I2         148          o  8881      h           52            so1        1141:        112 1          41         971          8a
118ON801slow  1BK8111              13             8002NO    ---    I    29,625I   --         B      3,500B     I5,400        6,000I1   22,400          7,2900     60,0002       9,5001     -                700:      654 
1216118 8UKh1INS IINEUI           I C.IO      8 3,032 8     6,490 B    25.378 8       I,004 1'   18,77        62,4631 8     1,700       3621B       3,89J        6,5          14.229 I            B      7545 8.   2;,347 B
I MINCAMUEIU  IICOIUU                c da       14,800    1  4,423 :    28,824 2       3,676 1      1,90  I    66,056 1    89,43? 1    34,339 8,35,289             62,857 2    25,376 8        236 1    17,400 B    21.41 1
I :VASTT U1EVI8EW 63C0C111    BsUs/i             O.0"      -       8       0.641    ---      I      0.3081       0.521    -.       1 *-         B --         , --         8 ---                            0.601       0.008
IsISwmRS  C0918188                   CI ut      3,030 B    -       1     49,5842    -              4,726 1    25,981 1    72,200 B    417,14  B    13,410 B 180,166 2           6,838 1   ...    I        8,510 8     5,377 1
.(3001161MGCUEIC7 I   ICIEN           cIa  J.   85,87  1           1    20,007 1    ---    1    18,621    154,815           30,090      23,172     on89..         42,32  1    30.274 8      -                  8    -4,2% 0
132imk IUVRAGE 810W09             I8      1        388                       is 8 7       452         58           538           02          741         001          69 1         So      -       1          9          60 1
01823SiO"Tit nut"IMNIE8EI  2.3s.)                0.141    -                0.381        0.0081      0.30 1       0.1508t   ---     1       01.151       0.2AM8      5.30 1            t-  I  -             0.26 1      0.2*1
BEBIUIIKM  SI itttNEiI              1     08-o--I                            891    I-            I    3I          63              1878       0      1       18li 71                891 --I81;                            0 1
881 Mm    NPMA1180O                IBIsI  O.            I--        82    -                             81         356           7721        2128         572         S 320        398 I                      281          21I
IIO ICINSVISI                8     1                                              *   1                                      I           B.                        1 1                       B             
hOBOi   ft9 13911893             1 In  8       8.785 B     5.938 B      4.173 1      0,046 1       .029 1    7.0.911      89.140 1    21.054 8        .811 B      .961A      28.833 1      0.841 B      1.968       S .453 1     0
8on811 O NTO    PUT510           I M8  1       8.72  I     0.0001      13.615 1     6.21.81      0.961 1    25.251 8    8.039 I         8.985       4.340 1    23.2??1         MR935  2    8.000 1      8.9681      8.923 B     0)
tUIfsCi. A588811                 I ONa         0.004 8     0.001        3.160 1      0.000I      U. 158       0.971 1      1.042 8       .235 1      0.200 I     0.000 2      0O57  I      0.0008 0I0A 7            0.444 t
10108A 181583E111                I aN          3.591 1     6.73  1    38.1%6 B       6439        2.148       87.820I1   27.1881        31.Mo  B      2353 1    93.242 1    38.054 1.    0.08            4.033 B    14.0214IB    _
291 CWIT  CbS                   I1   18        66,409 8    I17.84 B    830.92 B      88.68        14.60      110.56B       38.14 1     2.26.07    176.30 1    432.941 in3."9 8             27.06 B      311.65 B    83.39 1
88310816 an7 U 81n1              I I   1        3.10 $      2.00 B      89.96 I   --       1      8.801       85.87 I   -        8      83.59 1      83.53 183.681-12.90            I -    -     B       2.68       1 9.858 
61.001881 *U 02,850.00 KMOSt~  -



VanR SUWPPLY so2 SATIOOI SECTOR AlOJtCI
Flooanctal ludicotore
aim  ilftoO             WIU~~Mm(      us8               Dow             WpiK              lUtIOlOC       C001100        80180611         flSOWi           mom            (Ul amB        toLU818           ftx
t   c s    .t   cfloo,       t"sic.V.            Im.               t,.              M1.            AM.            COoS. tD0. *e.                                  o.C.,.          so.
1WI p"ptoo          m                  S10,110.00      11,21.0         1,612,.0                            mI.a6.00         60,413.00     2,400.00        32'1,31.O        511,240     IS   430.0           110.0         121.n..o         *n.0
86.0m                    tint.          94,142.00       14,03.00         220.121.00        20.081.00        44 60I.00       2o.016.00     02,133.40       14,140'.00        0,662.40       pi 0.00         0,4.00          20,123.00         022.40
Csowap Ou.S.p.   ~tomht.         02,990.0         02,402.00        22009.40          21,1040          31,011,0          92.0        9,11.0          11,10.0           6,214.40       82,141.00       0,868.00        1),031.oo         101.40
             01,0.00   I000                     10.2             em 0b2 .4"   000 I62*           0.J2 0., I430                                   4900 I0.001                    90.000           0i1102         360.01
luwq. au.  *   tinut.         12~~~~,20.00    12,01.0          130,806.00            00.3         21,00*           1,40.o 5,      1140 ost.00    01,1.00          51,W.00             0.00       3.030,40        82,600.00            a
100 S  2       U10.00t             0.4             10.40?           60.00           10.01?        69.0 1           14.00 t           1.0oil         0.00I         U0ioK           1U0 1               t.0I
Ithl Wattet     t          e        b        * tt          *>b2 ..                                  I 0.0  .  o 0.00  0.0  604.002  0.0I.01                    0 .04            0.so            0n.00                          0t.0  0
0 Slum.          1              01~~~~~~~~~4.00  94.0             800.00           11.00 1          0300?             .It          0.40 1t         1.400 I           0.00a                         12.40           [1000.0 a        o. It
d.0    c                     rts tnl wtt s40.0  U 3z.00            .00            323.0 I          23.00         0.42            444.001I    u    00.0lo          12,000        101.00           20 1.00, 1    t   .hW?
1101.01                 ic.1              19.0.43                            3.sS61                         .iU.94 6:3*                                                    2.38             1.0              0
01. somahuom.              a              40.40           $100.00            23.0 0              a6            30.t0       6      e.                  c     o e  oo     e        .o0              No         3000             ro.o o          20*.e
buamis  lvotw               I                01. W."        19.10            n31.91            41.011           41.0,          2 9.1 1   t 1.98 1             11.e1            I0.08 1WA, 41                  11.10            4o.41            4011
10131$ 860w               lid3            21.0                .40          0,017.9           111.40            01.00          892.40        412,00           020.4"          .20.00           202.00         22.0             91.4.00
ltwilt Ioua"              443d39                           320.00             40.40           201.00            0.00          044.34          4.00           104.32             0.00            0.00         014.00           011.00            a6
lua  SW                                  ,93u. 01.00                      0                                   t,o.00       4    "       1r20.t          0  6.1.9 2,249.44   *0,N*.0?        221.0  e      ,240.11                           W .otI
huaw Oinnp                                               60201.4 4212.21   3,04.4           3,293.02            0.00          39291           o.00         2,000.00             0.00            0.00         221.a o23                        60.
W4I8  t_tiu,                                            2,21.4            4,200.09          1,003.02           864.00        2,8.0         0,200           8,066.0          2,024.02          2241.        3,49t.32 P,003.40                  30.20
01.t. costs total                      3    .            12,94.         23,2.0             ,00.41            1.40.0                        0.            10,400.t0 *        ,120.42         1.00 U,01t4.00                2,1U3.0           19.40
01.3. auwilo               a0            0,912.2         0,2.0             5,2100             142.23            0.00            0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00            0.00         301.001          200.00           4.00
0.ultbhboru.               a4            4,040.8         oi,oai.4         22,12.1#            466.0        14.102.310          M10260        30.30          2,060.2         1,1.42           8521.600      2,01.38          2,10.46           20.
tdoo  a2 rut. 2,448       ties            292.100          Mo                U2L.M            231.0             31.00          221.40         0               MA.0          8,340.4           120.00         293.00"
twt".lao2                              YT"              Too              Too            3ptuy            86yen                        .Coll.smag.          yes             Y..                                                             is. e.tO8
,agroo,                   ~~~~~~           ~~~0.001  0.00    0.00            2.408          3.212.031          0 .40        20.003            0.001I           0.000         1      1          .000I           0.400        26000
toolOo 1cw. 400                             2.42             4.002.                             4.10         Y1,1.09!7                        1        *49 ThV"                 ".9              .000                           O.AS            a
*w93~.ta  40                                                                                            . 
00
to



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR LOAN
PROJECT INVESTMENT SCHEDULE
COMPONENTS          TOTAL     1990    1991    1992       1993    1994  1995
NATIONAL
CNA               3.3      0.2      1.8      1.3
RANOBRAS          1.4               1.4
IMTA              4.9              2.8       1.0       1.1
Studies         28.5       6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0     4.5
Pilot Water-Pol  0.5                0.1      0.3       0.1
Training          9.6               2.5      2.5       2.5     2.1
Laboratories      4.7               2.7      2.0
Follow-up Proj.  0.2                                           0.2
subtotal        53.1       6.2    17.3      13.1       9.7     6.8
STATE and LOCAL
Water Supply   287.7      25.7    70.0      80.0      57.0    50.0
Sanitation     175.0       9.0    25.0      30.0      51.0    60.0
Sewerage Treat  55.2       7.0      8.5      9.0       9.5    14.7    6.5
Subtotal       512.9      41.7   103.5    119.0    117.5   124.7    6.5
VAT              84.9      6.9    17.1      19.7      19.4    20.6    1.1
TOTAL              650.9     54.8   137.9    151.8    146.6   152.1    7.6



- 56 -
ANNEX 9
MEXICO                       Page I of 3
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
REVIEW OF BANOBRAS
1.        BANOBRAS has three principal operations.  It serves as an
intermediary for external funds going to Federal, state and municipal
governments; it mobilizes its own resources to loan to urban
infrastructure projects; and it serves as a fiduciary for several trust
funds. For most of BANOBRAS' loans, principal and interest payments are
valued in dollars or other foreign currencies yet payable through the
Government in pesos. All new BANOBRAS loans have interest rates which,
at a minimum, cover its costs of funds.
2.        In spite of real declines in SANOBRAS' asset size, on the
whole BANOBRAS' financial position was found to be strong, supported by
healthy margins attached to funds it passes through to the Government
and a strong capitalization program.
O    Asset Quality was found to be strong due to the large volume
of transactions whereby BANOBRAS merely acts as an
intermediary between funds received from foreign sources and
credits to the Government bearing the same maturity.
Virtually all of BANOBRAS' portfolio has a government
guarantee. Some sectors to which loans have been made with
BANOBRAS' own resources, such as transportation and
construction have high rates of non-performance.
O    Liquidity is essentially sound, primarily because the
maturities of most assets and liabilities are tied together.
Interest rate risk is also largely mitigated because virtually
the entire portfolio is denominated in tied variable rate
instruments. Closure of branches, retail deposits and other
commercial operations, however pose a need for short-term
sources of funding.
o    Capital Adeauacv has improved dramatically since 1986 with the
setting aside of capital reserves and will improve still
further when four trust funds are consolidated into BANOBRAS'
balance sheet. Ultimately BANOBRAS will have to leverage its
capital increases for asset growth or become overcapitalized.
O    Profitability indicators suggest that BANOBRASW  financial
margins have increased significantly since 1986. Its overhead
costs have remained stable relative to average assets but have
increased relative to credit flows since 1985. The recent
debt renegotiation agreement may adversely affect BANOBRAS'
profitability. Recent decreases in nominal interest rates
will also decrease BANOBRAS' spreads.
3.        Personnel indicators suggest that credit flows have become
more costly (inefficient) on a per employee basis since 1985 but that
per employee salary and benefit costs have decreased since 1986.
BANOBRAS' institutional capability suffers from several deficiencies
several of which remain or have arisen since its 1986 restructuring.



- 57  -                           ANNEX  9
-  -                    Page 2 of 3
o    Decentralization of BANOBRAS operations has created intense
rivalries between BANOBRAS home office and state delegations.
These delegations lack sufficient institutional resources,
power and autonomy to act successfully in the responsibilities
they are charged with.
O    Rivalries between BANOBRAS and Government agencies for control
of responsibility and decision making in development finance
projects hamper the quality of these projects as well as
efficiency.
o    Little accountability exists at BANOBRAS because decision-
making is centralized and managers and staff are not held
accountable to profitability or efficiency measures.
O    This limited accountability has made it difficult for BANOBRAS
to better match the skills of its staff with its chantina
needs. While BANOBRAS offers above market salaries and
numerous perks, few opportunities exist for promotion and many
staff feel they have little input into decision making.
4.        BANOBRAS' planners would like to move the bank into a more
active role in developing funding sources for profitable urban
infrastructure investments. BANOBRAS will be limited in such pursuits
by the capabilities of its staff, instruments currently available for
long-term financing, and cautious investor confidence in the market.
5.        In order for BANOBRAS to complete the process of
decentralization and increase accountability the following actions have
been recommendeds
a)   Increasing in the power of the delegations by providing vice-
presidential representation for groups of delegations.
b)  Redeploying significant staff from BANOBRAS' home office to
the delegations.
c)   Developing an accounting system to both distribute profit and
loss responsibility to credit groups within delegations as
well as develop intracompany transfers in such a way to ensure
equitable profit and loss responsibility for staff functions.
d)   Making managers accountable for profit and loss
responsibilities once established.
e)   Decentralizing personnel and purchasing decisions.  By being
held accotmtable, managers will have strong incentives to
increase the skill level and productivity of staff as well as
to acquire whatever equipment necessary to increase
efficiency.
f)   Some limited amount of indexed instruments should be approved
at appropriate date for use by BANOBRAS in order to develop
independent sources of long-term infrastructure finance.
Asset quality must be improved for projects financed by
BANOBRAS' own resources.



- 58  -                          ANNEX  9
Page 3 of 3
h)   Remaining branches should be closed as soon as possible.
i)   Fideicomisos should be incorporated into BANOBRAS as soon as
possible.
6.        Presently, BANOBRAS is in the process of undertaking a major
reorganization in order to improve its efficiency and progress is being
made. Home office staffing has been reduced by 302, the organizational
structure has been streamlined and the computer systems have been
improved and interconnected throughout the country. The remaining
branch offices have been closed and many fideicomisos have been
incorporated into BANOBRAS. Plans are also being made to develop long-
term financing through the issuance of longer public market bonds.



- 59 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Introduction
1.     The National Training Program is a critical component in the
successful achievement of sector objectives. The program emphasis will
be on training sector personnel directly responsible for the operation,
maintenance, and administration of operating agency facilities. These
actions will support the institutional Consolidation Program objectives
and should result in more efficient use of facilities, increased system
coverage and service, improved water quality to users and from pollution
control plants, and greater financial autonomy of operating agencies
through improved systems of water use measurement, billing, and
collection. These results will support the proposed project objectives
of strengthening the capacity of operating agencies at state and local
levels to efficiently operate facilities, expand service coverage and
quality, and improve environmental conditions.
2.     The program will be under the guidance of CNA and will be
implemented by IMTA (the branch of Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resource responsible for providing sector technical assistance and
training) in cooperation with ANOAPA, the National Association of Water
Supply Operating Companies.
3.     Since 1989 IMTA and ANOAPA have organized sector training
workshops, developed questionnaires aimed at assessing operating agency
strengths, weaknesses and training needs and designed curricula and
manuals. Most workshops have been in response to agency self-
assessment of problems and training has been 'horizontal", with more
advanced agencies "exchanging experiences" on superic. methods and
results at the managerial and supervisorial levels. Instructors have
been engineers; curricula, and manuals have been relatively complex,
oriented toward specific problems, and appropriate for staff with high
levels of education and responsibility. Although the diagnostic
questionnaires, curricula, and manuals are well prepared, this approach
is, by nature, fragmented. While valuable experience has been gained,
and usable materials produced (for specific levels and problems), these
remain little actual knowledge regarding sector operating agency
numbers, size, capability, or performance.
4.    Overall service performance, however, indicates that high priority
should be given to the development of a systematic, practical
comprehensive, sector-wide training program for operating personnel.
This is consistent with the policy of sector decentralization and the
creation of CNA as the new commission responsible for setting standards
and providing technical assistance to meet them.



- 60 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
Obiectives
5.     The short-term objective of the training component of the proposed
project is to enhance skills of operating agencies, with priority given
to Bank-assisted subprojects, improve the quality and coverage of water
service and treatment, and extend the life of facilities. The long-
term objective is to build an ongoing training capability within the
sector focused on all personnel who either a) monitor and assist, b)
administer, and (c) in particular, are directly involved in operation,
maintenance, and financial activities of operating agencies.
6.     Specific objectives include:
a. Strengthening the capacity of IMTA and ANOAPA to prepare and
implement a systematic, sector-wide, regionally-based training
program;
b. Systematically assessing a operating agency personnel and the
training required to improve skill levels and practices that
affect operations and maintenance.
c. Designing and implementing a program of ongoing workshops
oriented toward practical hands-onu training targeted at
supervisors, technicians, operators, maintenance, and finance,
and administrative personnel in water and sewerage systems,
water treatment. and pollution control facilities.
d. Upgrading expansion and equipment for regional training
centers.
e. Increasing local training capacity and the internalization of
ongoing training programs within operating agencies.
Approach
7.    The approach to achieve the objectives will focus on assistance to
IMTA under direction from CNA. Its role will be to: (a) develop,
expand and reorient existing programs for a more systematic, integrated,
practical approach to sector training needs, with emphasis on the
operator level; (b) design and present a program of workshops and
materials based on occupational categories; provide training and skills
necessary for staff to perform required functions and solve operational
problems; (c) provide training to CNA staff at national, regional and
state levels to improve the level of guidance and technical assistance
to operating agencies; and (d) cooperate with and strengthen ANOAPA,
focusing training and assistance at the regional level while gradually
shifting primary responsibility of the program to the operating agencies
themselves, through ANOAPA, at increasingly decentralized levels. All
activities will be designed to meet immediate sector needs while
establishing a solid base to multiply, replicate, and refine the
training program effects and reach all operating staff. Emphasis will
be on improving the skills and knowledge of those who actually operate



- 61 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
and maintain the facilities, and are responsible for the quality and
elivery of service on a daily basis.
TraininR program DescriRtion
8.    Targets.  The training component to be implemented under the
project is designed to (a) assist CNA, IHTA, ANOAPA and operating
agencies to improve service through the development of a sector-wide
training capability; (b) upgrade the skills of at least 10,000 operating
personnel of 300 state and local operating agencies with priority given
to 42 agencies with Bank-supported sub-projects; (c) train all CNA and
IM4TA staff as needed to provide sector assistance at national, regional
and state levels. The following estimates have been made for personnel
to be trained by occupational category and type of facilities.
By Occupational      No.   By Types of       No.   By Size */  No.
Category                   Systems              of Agency
Managers            1300   Water Supply      2160      A         4600
Supervisors         2340   Sewerage          2160     B          3700
Technical           2340   Water-Treatment  1620      C          1420
operators /
Clerks              1240   Water-Pollution
Control          1620                9,720
Maintenance         2500   Commercial/
Finance          2160
9,720                   9,720
*I   Designated A, B, or C, to represent three levels of service area
population size within project A is the largest.
9.     Training will t,u accomplished during the five-year period through
501 workshops held In seven regional training centers. Each workshop
will average two weeks with center facilities being utilized six to
eight months per year. In addition, 1,440 CNA and IDTA staff will
receive 72 training workshops to improve their capacity to direct,
monitor, and provide assistance. These estimates are considered
reasonable since four to six months will remain to carry out operating
agency personnel assessments and diagnose needs, evaluate and modify
previous workshops and organize additional ones on special subjects.
10.    To multiply the short-term impact and institutionalize the
training program, the following action will be implemented: a) 60
supervisors/year will be trained as trainers in 12 workshops/year
beginning in the second year and will thereafter act as trainers in 25
workshops for operators, maintenance and accounting personnel; b) the
supervisors will also form teams to provide on-site assistance to
operating agencies not yet incorporated into formal workshops; and c)
the trainers will organize training units within the r own operating
agencies to train new personnel and continue to upgrale skills.



- 62 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 7
11.    Since no database exists regarding the number of operating
agencies or sector personnel, it is not possible to determine what
percentage of the total sector needs will be met. Estimates of
personnel to be trained are based on a training program oriented toward
functions to be carried out by staff operating in different occupational
categories and levels in different types and sizes of systems.
Assumption. for Minimal Staff Training Recuiremento
Tep of Foci Itioe/Svutems
Water
Occupational   Water      Treatment  Sewerage   Water Pollutlon   Commercial
Category       Yst.m      Plant    yst       Control Plante  Operation
Manager             All Operating Agencies
Supervisor     A, 8, C     A, B     A, B,C          A, B      A, B, C
Technician     A, B, C     A, B     A, B,C          A, B      A, B, C
Operator I     A:B, C     A, B     A, B,C          A, B      A, B, C
Operator. I    A           A        A               A         A
Maintenance    A, B, C     A, B     A, B            A, 9      A, B
While a particular operating agency may be responsible for all five
types of systems, most personnel carry out their responsibilities within
only one or two systems. Each workshop would cover all the functions
of, for example, a water-treatment-plant operator or a water-quality
laboratory technician. The number of different workshops to meet the
basic training requirements for different functions depending on the
size and type of facilities has been estimated at 54.
12.    Components.  To implement the training program, financing will be
provided fort a) construction and rehabilitation of three regional
training centers and for equipment and materials for seven regional
centers; b) consultant services to assist in the reoriented design of
the program; c) scholarships/apprenticeships abroad for sector personnel
to work within similar, more developed agencies (costs not included in
budget); d) over 570 workshops.
13.    Regional Training Facilities and Equipment.  IMTA has already
constructed, or is in the process of rehabilitating buildings for five
regional training centers: Los Berros, (Mexico); Ciudad Aleman,
(Veracruz); San Roque, (Nuevo Leon); Merida, (Yucatan); and Cuernavaca.
Plans exist to add two more centers in Ciudad Obregon, (Sonora); and
Torreon, (Coahuila). These centers are all associated with existing
water system or treatment facilities and will be used to train all
operating agencies within their respective regions. The project will
complete the facilities and add the training equipment, machinery, and
laboratories. These centers will be structured so that workshops
emphasize the practical application of theory under operating
conditions. Eventually regional centers, in addition to providing
functional train4ng, will focus on solving water-resource-system
problems unique to the specific region, such as contamination from
discharge by sugar and paper mills in Ciudad Aleman, the tourist sector



- 63 _
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 7
in Merida, over-exploitation of aquifers in Ciudad Obregon. and arsenic
contamination in Coahuila.
14.    Program Development and Phasing.  A period of six months will be
allocated for preparatory activities. During this period, assistance
will be provided to support the following concurrent activ. ues: a)
completion of regional training centers: five centers will Li complete
for use in year one and all seven in the second year; b) needs
assessment of operating agencies: a team from IMTA and ANOAPA will
participate with the consolidation team and carry out an on-site
assessment of each operating agency designated for priority sub-
projects. A standardized methodology, based on the IMTA-designed
diagnostic, will be used to assess operational requirements, personnel
and staff skills within each agency, and identify training needs to
upgrade performance to meet operational standards. This will be a model
for a continuing inventory of agencies; c) establishment of database and
baseline: the assessment will form the basis for a sector personnel
database and establish the baseline from which future training project
impacts can be measured; d) monitoring indicators: these will be
generated so that the effects of subsequent training and institutional
strengthening can be measured; and e) program desiRn and workshop
curricula: this program will focus on integrated training of sectoral
personnel to understand, organize and perform all the tasks required of
their positions competently; curricula, workshop topics, instructors and
materials and manuals will be reviewed and revised to present a
practical, functional approach taught by experienced operators and
supported by simple working manuals to be used on the job. The basic
plan for workshops will be developed concurrently with the inventory of
specific problems of individual agencies: the training thrust will be
to first teach people to fulfill basic responsibilities to prevent
problems and then incorporate diagnosis of special problems and take the
needed steps to solve them.
15.    Technical Assistance and Training.  Twelve staff-months of
external technical assistance and training have been included for the
development and implementation of the program: workshop topics,
sequence, curricula and the development of operation/maintenance-
working-level manuals; assistance to and training needs essessment
inventory; design of a monitoring and evaluation system; assessment of
trainer capability and training of trainers (8 staff-months) and
specialized workshops to train personnel on new systems or equipment
recommended as part of sub-projects (8 staff-months).
16.    Certification.  Staff that complete the workshops will be
certified as competent in their positions. Workshops will also be held
for private contractors to upgrade their skills and become certified for
contracts from water agencies.
17.    ApprenticeshiplTwinning.  One or more successfully operated public
sector water agencies with similar operating responsibilities will be
identified outside Mexico with which selected operating agencies can
reach agreement to exchange staff. Under this arrangement sector staff
will serve in apprenticeship positions for approximately three months to



- 64 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 7
lesra practices and processes in the operation of water production,
treatment, distribution, sewerage, pollution control and wastewater
reclamation facilities, accounting, financial and commercial systems.
Selected staff will be those whose responsibilities fall within the
actual working operation of facilities.
18.    Horizontal Training.  The ANOAPA horizontal training program will
be strengthened in coordination with project activities. The baseline
diagnosis of strengths and weaknesses of individual agencies will allow
a more objective basis for matching compatible agencies. Within the
regional workshops, agencies will be paired so they can continue to work
together after the end of the formal sessions.
19.    Costs and Financing.  The total cost associated with the national
training program during 1990-1994 is estimated at US$7.4 million, of
which $2.5 million is foreign exchange and $4.9 million would be in
local currency. Construction and rehabilitation (civil works) of three
regional centers is $1.0 million and will be paid for by the Government.
Equipment and materials costs of $2.3 million for seven regional
training centers and a water quality laboratory will be covered by the
Bank loan as will 12 staff-months of external technical assistance at
$13,000 per month. The workshops (500 for operating agency personnel
and 72 for CNA personnel) are estimated at US$6,000 per workshop or,
with 20 students, $300 per student for a two-week course. Workshops for
operating personnel (US$3 million) will be financed by the state and
municipal component for subprojects. (Training of operating personnel
will be a condition for an agency to receive subproject financing.)
Training of CRA's staff and IDTA operating costs to implement the
program will be provided as grants. ANOAPA costs will be paid by member
agencies.



- 65 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
COST FOR TRAINING PROGRAM
(USS MILLION)
----------1990-1994------
Local     Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Construction/rehabilitation of
three regional centers             1.00          0.9       1.9
Equipment and Materials
Training machinery equipment          -          0.7       0.7
Water quality laboratory              -          1.7        1.7
Technical Assistance                 -           2.4       2.4
Training
Operating agencies 1/              2.0              -      2.0
CNA                                0.4              -       0.4
Administration-Operation           0.5              -       0.5
Total 2/                       3.9            5.7      9.7
1/  To be paid by operating agencies with subprojects under component (B)
of the project.
2/ Does not include scholarship/apprenticeship costs for exchange of
operating personnel with foreign operating agency.
Organization
20.    A cooperating agreement has been established between ANOAPA. CNA
and IMTA that calls for the formation of a National Coordinating
Committee made up of representatives of the three entities and an
executive group of seven full-time specialists responsible for carrying
out program activities. The primary role of CNA is to transfer
resources to the program, and supervise and evaluate activities: IMTA's
primary functions will be to organize workslhops and design training
mechanisms. ANOAPA's role relates primarily to the execution of the
existing thrust of training in which operating agencies define their own
needs for a program of horizontal training. Important aspects of the
agreement provide for (i) increasing responsibility for the program to
eventually be handled by ANOAPA, and (ii) the focus to be at the
regional level, with regional committees and executive groups of three
specialists in each region developing the horizontal training program.
21.    At the nutiomal lPvPl, CNA wJll establish a special unit that will
in(lude full-time specialists in operations, maintenance, and
administration. In addition, there will be a full-time coordinator
between CNA and IMTA for the training program.



- 66 -
ANNEX 11
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
SECTOR MONITORING INDICATORS
1990   1991   1992  1993
Increase in Service
- Water (connections) (thousands)                250   300      500   600
-  Sewerage (connections) (thousands)            250   300      400   400
-  Other sanitation systems (connections)        -      100     150   200
-  Waste water treated (m3/year)                  40    50       60    70
- Percentage of chlorinated water
Training
-  Number of trainees                            400   800    1000  1200
-  Credit hours per class/year                   150   240      500   600
-  Number of scholarships                        -       10      15    15
Consolidation
-  Legislative changes of state agencies           7      5       3      3
-  Financial rehabilitation program                5    10       30    50
-  operational improvement                        10    15       40    60
-  Adlministrative improvement                    15    60       60    70
-  Number of visits to USA                        40   120      180   180
Disbursed amount (US$ million)
-  Subloans                                       29   154      264   317
- Grants (non-recoverable investments)           114   337      211   148
-  Internal cash generation                       -      23      53    64
-  Total                                         143   514      528   529
Impact on Poverty
- 2 of benefitted municipalities with
PI > 7.51total number of beneficiaries (2)   10    30         50    30
- Low-income population benefitted/total
population benefitted (2)                      20    30       30    30
NOTE: Typical Operating Agencies Monitoring Indicators are presented in
para. 52.



- 67 -
ANNEX 12
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR LOAN
Loan Disbursement Scheme
Bank Fiscal         quarterly                 Cumulative Disbursement
Year &              Disbursem.          ------------------------------___
Quarter Ending      (US$ million)       (US$ million)           (2 of Total)
FY91
Sept. 30, 1990              0.0                 0.0                   0.0
Dec. 31, 1990              30.0                30.0                  10.0
March 31, 1991              8.0                38.0                  13.0
June 30, 1991               7.0                45.0                  15.0
FY92
Sept. 30, 1991             12.5                57.5                  19.1
Dec. 31, 1991              13.5                71.0                  23.7
March 31, 1992             13.8                84.8                  28.3
June 30, 1992              13.8                98.6                  32.9
FY93
Sept. 30, 1992             20.9               119.5                  39.8
Dec. 31, 1992              27.0               146.5                  48.8
March 31, 1993             23.7               170.2                  56.7
June 30, 1993              23.3               193.5                  64.5
FY94
Sept. 30, 1993             18.0               211.5                  70.5
Dec. 31, 1993              17.5               229.0                  76.3
March 31, 1994             17.3               246.3                  82.0
June 30, 1994              17.0               263.3                  87.8
FY95
Sept. 30, 1994             10.0               273.3                  91.1
Dec. 31, 1994               8.3               281.6                  93.9
March 31, 1995              8.1               289.7                  96.6
June 30, 1995               7.0               296.7                  98.9
FY96
Sept. 30, 1995              2.1               298.8                  99.6
Dec. 31, 1995               1.2               300.0                 100.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   LINEAMIENTOS PARA EL PROGRAMA NACIONAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO. C.N.A. 1989.
2.   COSTOS INDICE - SISTEMAS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO.
3.   INFORME DEL CURSO SOBRE OPERACION, MANTENIMIENTO Y ADMINISTRACION
DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO EN COMUNIDADES
RURALES. BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
INSTITUCION DE BANCA DE DESARROLLO. MAYO 1990.
4.  EVOLUCIONES Y PERSPECTIVAS SECTORIALES.  JUNIO 1990.
S.   MEXICO: DESARROLLO REGIONAL Y DESCENTRALIZACION DE LA VIDA
NACIONAL. EXPERIENCIAS DE CAMBIO ESTRUCTURAL 1983-1988.
6.   APPRECIACION DE LA SITUACION AL FINAL DE DECENIO INTERNACIONAL DE
ABASTECIMIENTO DE AGUA Y SANEAMIENTO EN MEXICO Y PERSPECTIVAS PARA
EL FUTURO. ING. ALFONSO CAMARENA LARRIVA. MAYO 1989.
7.   ESQUEMA DE OPERACION DEL PROGRAMA SECTORIAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO. AGOSTO 1989.
8.   PROGRAMA NACIONAL 'DE CAPACITACION PARA AGUA POTABLE Y
ALCANTARILLADO. JUNIO 1990.
9.   POTENCIAL DE LA INVERSION PRIVADA EN LA INFRAESTRUCTURA HIDRAULICA
EN MEXICO. C.N.A. SEPTIEMBRE 198.
10   PROGRAMA DE FINANCIAMIENTO PARA EL EQUILIBRIO ECOLOGICO Y LA
PROTECCION DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE. DIAGNOSTICO Y LINEAS DE ACCION.
11. REPORTE SOBRE LA VISITA A ORGANISMO' OPERADORES DE AGUA POTABLE DE
LOS ESTADOS HIDALGO Y MICHOACAN PAR LA ADECUACION DE PROYECTOS DEL
PROGRAMA AGUA, MJER, DESARROLLO. MAYO-JUNIO 1989.
12. HACIA UNA TIPOLOGIA ESTATAL - INDICADORES BASICOS DE DESARROLLO
ECONOMICO EN MEXICO, POR ENTIDAD FEDERATIVA UN ANALISIS GRAFICO.
OCTUBRE 1989.
13. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA 1. ESTRATEGIAS. 1990-1994. ENERO 1990.
14. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA 2. PROGRAMA DE ADMINISTRACION Y USO
EFICIENTE DEL AGUA. 1990-1994. ENERO 1990.



- 69 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 5
15.  ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA LE
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO A LA
POBLACION DE TUXTLA GUTIERREZ, CHRIS. CONTRATO NO. UI-89-385 D
FEBRERO 1990.
16. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA. ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE IXTAPA - ZIHUATANEJO, GRO.- INFORME FINAL.
MAYO DE 1990.
17.  ESTUDIO DE FACrIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE H!tRMOSILLO, SONORA.
18. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE COMITAN, CHRIS. CONTRATO NO. 129-22.
MARZO, 1990.
19. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LAS POBLACIONES DE GUAYMAS, EMPALME Y SAN CARLOS, SON.
CONTRATO NO. UI-89-365-D. FEBRERO 1990.
20. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNTCA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE OAXACA DE JUAREZ, OAXACA. CONTRATO NO. 2281-M3.
MAYO 1990.
21. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO A LA
CIUDAD DE TUXTEPEC, OAXACA.  ABRIL 1990.                    a
22.A ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE LEON, GUANAJUATO. ENERO DE 1990 - SAPAL.
22.B ESTUDIOS DA FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE LEON, GTO. RESUMEN EJECUTIVO - SAPAL.
22.C INFORME DE AVANCE SOBRE LAS GESTIONES REALIZADAS POR EL CONSEJO DE
ADMINISTRACION EN EL PERIODO 1988-1989. SAPAL
22.D SISTEMA DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DEL MUNICIPIO DE LEON,
GTO. ESTADOS FINANCIEROS. DICIEMBRE 1989. SAPAL.
22.E SISTEMA DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DEL MUNICIPIO DE LEON,
GTO. ESTADISTICAS DE CONSUMOS. DICIEMBRE 1989. SAPAL.
23. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE LOS CABOS, B.C.S. CONTRATO NO. 2281-ME. MAYO 1990.



- 70 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
24. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA CIUDAD DE MAZATLAN, SINALOA. MARZO 1990.
25. ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE
LA LOCALIDAD DE XOXONACATLA, MUNICIPIO DE ZACATLAN ESTADO DE
PUEBLA. MAYO 1990
26.  ESTUDIO DE FACTIBILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIEN DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LA COLONIA
INDEPENDENCIA. MUNXCIPIO DE TEPEOJUMA ESTADO DE PUEBLA. MARZO
1990.
27. ESTUDIO DE FACTABILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LA CIUDAD DE PORTO
PROGRESO, YUC. CONTRATO NO. 29-14. MAYO 1990.
28. ESTlJDIO DE FACTABILIDAD TECNICA, ECONOMICA Y FINANCIERA PARA EL
MEJORAMIENTO DEL SISTEMA DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO DE LA
CIUDAD DE CHILPANCINGO, GRO.
29. AMPLIACION Y ADECUACION DE LA PLANTA DE TRATAMIENTO DE AGUAS
RESIDUALES DE EPCCA. - RESUMEN EJECUTIVO - ABRIL 1990.
30. WATER PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT IN MEXICO. JUNE 1990.
31. MEXICO- URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR STUDY.
INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL CONSTRAINTS. JUNE 1988.
32. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - PAPANTLA,VER. INGENIERIA Y
PROCESAMIENTO ELECTRONICO, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
33.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - MERIDA, YUC. TECNOLOGIA EN OBRAS Y
PROYECTOS, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
34. COMISION NACTONAL DEL AGUA - TAPACHULA, CHIS. PROYECTOS Y
CONSTRUCCIONES HUERTA, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
35. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - TLAXCALA, TLAX. ROSU APPLICACIONES DE
INGENIERIA, S.A. DE C.V. FEBRERO 1990.
36.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - ACAPULCO, GTO. SISTEMAS HIDRAULICOS Y
AMBIENTALES, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
37. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CUAUTLA, MOR. DIRAC, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
38. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - COLIHA, COL. ALARCON FERRER, COSTAL
BARRIONUEVO Y ASOCIADOS, S.C. MARZO 1990.
39. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - APIZACO, TLAX. TECNOLOGIA EN OBRAS Y
PROYECTOS, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.



- 71 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 5
40. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - LAGOS DE MORENO, JA. INGENIERIA Y
PROCESAMIENTO ELECTRONICO, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
41.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CORDOBA, VER. IDESA, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
42. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - MEXICALI, B.C. CHATUM, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
43.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CIUDAD DE JUAREZ, CHIH. ECO
INGENIERIA, S.A. (CONSULTORES)
FEBRERO 1990.
44.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - PIEDRAS NEGRAS, COAH.  ANALISIS Y
PROYECTOS DE INGENIERIA, S.A. FEBRERO 1990.
45. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - TULA, HGO. ROSU APLICACIONES DE
INGENIERIA, S.A. DE C.V.
FEBRERO 1990.
46.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CELAYA, GTO. BUFETE DE ASESORES EN
INGENIERIA, S.A. DE C.V.
FEBRERO 1990.
47. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - PUERTO PROGRESO, YUC. SERVICIOS DE
AGUA POTABLE, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
48. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - ZACATECAS, ZAC. GINFOS. S.A. DE C.V.
FEBRERO 1990.
49.  COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - SALTILLO, COAH. GINFOS, S.A. DE C.V.
FEBRERO 1990.
50. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CIUDAD DEL CARMEN, CAMP. THORSA,
INGENIEROS, CONSULTORES Y CONSTRUCTORES, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
51. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - TEPIC, NAY. IDESA, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
52.  COHISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - PACHUCA, HGO. DEMM CONSULTORES, S.A.
DE C.V.
FEBRERO 1990.
53. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - DURANGO, DGO. PROYECTOS Y
CONSTRUCCIONES *EL CENTENARIO, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
54. COMISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - CIUDAD VICTORIA, TAMPS. APOYOS
EMPRESARIALES ESPECIALIZADOS, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.



- 72 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 5
55. COMISION ESTATAL DEL AGUA - CIUDAD GUZMAN, JAL. SERVICIOS DE AGUA
POTAWLE, S.A.
FEBRERO 1990.
56.  COMISION N&CIONAL DEL AGU  - BEYNOSA, TAMPS. SISTEMAS HIDRAULICOS Y
AMBIENTALES, S.A. DE C.V.
FEIRERO 1990.
57.  COHISION NACIONAL DEL AGUA - PUERTO VALLARTA, JAL. ARQUITECTO
GUILLERMO ORTIZ FLORES Y ASOCIADOS.
FEBRERO 1990.



MAP SECTION
I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



_10                                                              M EXIC O                        IBRD 22594
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
y |    t '<tc1                   r---SECTOR PROJECT
> AdIFR4/A W s   \ \ Noguim*                J a p
841A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
CAIFRNA44                                                                                                              iMd egIwy
^<Xuso~asV                     \    N-i -                                                                              R       ,,l'ro- 
capt btw,_,ital
4 Porat                                                                                       tg  Nctbnolcopi0cs
R4-r          <J.\                                           uttr                                            Drivied igihxew s
toeLem|_|S
ge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,i+cpa z/ /   taSr /air  <O                                 |
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                      Stat bKwies
tt.                                                                      -' "I
___~~~~~~~~~~~~.",                                                                                       GUATEMALA  ,
UIt.Et >0   tOOr     ,, 20   20
to,t ~ t%  ottO ..ototI~' ~ 0.                                            Pa.ttaE.madd                            HAONURAS
L                     s                                                       tr                                          \v f                 AUGU' 79sc 



