CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 284 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railways Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 284 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railways Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1972, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Egyptian Railways Organization
(hereinafter called ER) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to ER the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and ER;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (I) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
1.3. The term Project Agreement shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."; and


﻿4
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ER pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "ER" means Egyptian Railways Organization as constituted by the
Presidential Act No. 366 of 1956 of the Borrower;
(d)   "Railway Investment Program" means the proposed investment
program of ER for fiscal years 1972 to 1976 estimated to cost about LE137 million
as described in Schedule 3 hereto and as such Schedule may from time to time
be amended in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(e)   "fiscal year" means the period of 12 months commencing on July I
of the previous year and ending on June 30 of the indicated year; and
(f)   "Egyptian Pound" and the letter and sign "LE" mean pounds in the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lpnd to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, fo.r expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the


﻿5
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the tefritories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be: (i) with respect to amounts for
the Project other than for signalling and telecommunications equipment and
installation, December 31, 1973, and (ii) with respect to amounts for signalling
and telecommunications equipment and installation included in the Project,
September 30, 1976, or such other date or dates as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1982 and ending November 15, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Chairman of the Board of ER is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ER to carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the Project Agreement, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ER under
a subsidiary loan agreen.nt to be entered into between the Borrower and ER
for a period of about 20 years including about 4 years of grace at an interest
rate of four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum and under such other terms
and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable ER to perform all of its
obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and work schedules for
the Project and contract documents for goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and any material modifications or amplifications
thereof, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause ER to: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, within six months after the date of this
Agreement, make satisfactory arrangements for the mutual settlement and payment
of outstanding dues and unpaid balances of debts existing between ER on the
one hand and departments, agencies and public undertakings of the Borrower on
the other.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action
necessary to ensure that: (i) no substantial changes are made in the Railway
Investment Program except by agreement between the Borrower, the Association
and ER, and (ii) ER shall be provided, promptly as needed, with funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the said purpose.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) hereof, a change shall be considered
substantial when it shall involve either increases or decreases of more than twenty
per cent (20%) in the estimated costs of any of the groups of expenditures set
forth in the Annex to Schedule 3 hereto.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
all outstanding loans made by the Borrower to ER are converted, not later than
March 31, 1972, into capital investment of the Borrower in ER; provided that
there shall not be included in any such loans any obligations resulLing from
payments of principal or interest to foreign suppliers or parties.
(b)   The Borrower agrees: (i) that ER shall pay out of its gross profits
to the Borrower on all of the Borrower's capital investment in ER only a fixed
return at the rate of 2% per annum on a cumulative basis if necessary, or such
other rate as the Borrower shall decide upon in consultation with ER; and (ii)
to permit ER in any case both to internally generate funds and utilize them in
accordance with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1972, establish and maintain facilities
and procedures adequate to collect, record and analyze, in accordance with
appropriate methods, such data relating to traffic and costs of transport by different
modes of transportation as is required for the formulation of overall transport
policy and the making of sound decisions for future investments ig the
transportation sector.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ER of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of ER and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economkc
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of ER.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by th- Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by ER of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents of ER and to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ER shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of ER under the Project Agreement.
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant,
agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower or ER under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c)   Presidential Act No. 366 of 1956 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of ER to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ER or for the suspension
of its operations.
(e)   ER shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by ER or by others whereby any of


﻿10
the property of ER shall or may be distributed among its creditors and such event
shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ER will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and ER.
(b)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (c), (d) or (e) of this Agreement
shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on
behalf of ER or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and ER, respectively, or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ER, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ER in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ER,


﻿11
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ER in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date May 10, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03
and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (e) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Boriower:
Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Ecotrade
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Youssef Sharara
Auithorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services provided
from abroad financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Signalling and telecommunications                7,600,000
equipment and installation
II.        Track materials                                 13,300,000
III.        18 diesel locomotives (2,200 hp)                6,500,000
and spare parts therefor
IV.        Air brake equipment                                400,000
V.         Spare parts for ER's present fleet               1,200,000
of locomotives and railcars
VI.        Consultants' services                              100,000
VII.       Training abroad of ER's key                         25,000
personnel
VIII.      Unallocated                                        875,000
TOTAL               30,00000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;


﻿14
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which forms the first phase of the Railway Investment Program,
consists of all investments to be made in accordance with the said Program in
the fiscal years 1972 and 1973, the complete installation in the fiscal years 1972
to 1976 of electric signalling, interlocking and automatic block, and centralized
traffic control, estimated to require the expenditure of about fE58,000,000,
including contingencies. The Project consists of the following Parts, the estimated
expenditures on each of which are set forth in the Annex hereto:
(A)   Complete installation of electric signalling, interlocking and automatic
block on Cairo/Kobri El Leimoun-El Marg-Gabal El Asfar and Cairo-Giza and Ausim
sections and of Centralized Traffic Control on the Sohag-Nag Hammadi sections
(including necessary track modifications).
(B)   Completion of the already commenced work on the installation of
electric signalling, interlocking and automatic block on Cairo-Qualyub section and
the commencement of work for electric signalling, interlocking and automatic block
on Qualyub-Benha section; modification of mechanical signalling installations and
*        introduction of token-less block in some sections; and installation of automatic
telephone system on ER's system.
(C)   Relaying of about 400 km of track with 52 kg/m rails and about
100 km of track with reconditioned rails (about 260 km on main lines in Upper
Egypt, about 160 km on main lines in Lower Egypt and about 80 km on other
lines in the Delta); acquisition of mechanized track laying and maintenance
equipment; and   stabilization of embankments, and construction/renewal of
buildings and structures.
(D)   Acquisition of 18 diesel locomotives of 2,200 hp, 25 diesel locomotives
of 1,000 hp, 25 electric rail car sets, together with spare parts for all preceding
items, 5 breakdown cranes or other rerailing equipment, about 270 passenger
coaches and about 300 freight cars; installation of air brakes on about 400 freight
cars, and improvement in train lighting.
(E)   Modernization or construction of marshalling yards, including the new
central marshalling yard at Qualyub or Ausim; remodelling of station facilities and
yards.
(F)   Reconstruction of workshops for passenger coaches at Bulaq and for
freight cars at Gabal el Zeitoun; modernization of the locomotive workshop at


﻿16
Bulaq and other workshops; reconstruction and improvement of running sheds for
passenger coaches at Abu Ghatis and for rail cars at Kobri El Leirnoun; and the
construction of a new running shed for diesel rail cars at El Farz.
(G)   Acquisition of road vehicles, reorganization of stores facilities and
augmentation of stocks of essential stores including spares, improvement of electric
power supply on the Helewan line, training center facilities, training abroad of
key personnel of ER, and employment of consultants for the introduction in ER
of costing procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973 (except for Part
A, which is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976).


﻿17
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Estimated expenditure for each Part of the Project
Part                                      ZE million
A                                            5.9
B                                            1.8
C                                           16.6
D                                           22.5
E                                            2.4
F                                            3.1
G                                            3.4
Contingencies                                      1.9
TOTAL            57.6


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Description of Railway Investment Program
The Railway Investment Program to be implemented during fiscal years 1972
to 1976, estimated to require the expenditure of about LE137,000,000 including
contingencies, consists of the following Parts, the estimated expenditure on each
of which is set forth in the Annex hereto:
A.    Way and structure renewals and improvements: relaying of about 1,000 km
track on main lines with 52 kg/m rail and about 250 km track with reconditioned
rails; acquisition of mechanical track laying and maintenance equipment;
stabilization of embankments; and construction and/or renewal of buildings and
structures.
B.   Increase in station and line capacities: modernization of marshalling yards,
including construction of new central marshalling yard at Qualyub or Ausim;
remodelling of station facilities and yards.
C.   Motive power and rolling stock: acquisition of 45 diesel locomotives of 2,200
hp, 25 diesel locomotives of 1,000 hp, 25 diesel locomotives of 400 hp, 25 electric
rail car sets, 5 breakdown cranes or other rerailing equipment, about 1,940 freight
cars and about 730 passenger coaches; installation of air brakes on about 1,000
freight cars, and improvement in train lighting.
D.   Modernization of workshops and sheds: reconstruction of workshops for
passenger coaches at Bulaq and for freight cars at Gabal el Zeitoun; modernization
of locomotive workshops at Bulaq and other workshops; reconstruction and
improvement of running sheds for passenger coaches at Abu Ghatis and for rail
cars at Kobri El Leirnoun; and the construction of a new running shed for diesel
rail cars at El Farz.
E.   Signalling and telecommunication: completion of installation of automatic
telephone system, completion of electric signalling and automatic block on the
Cairo-Qualyub section; installation of electric signalling and automatic block on
the Cairo/Kobri El Leimoun-El Marg-Gabl El Asfar, Cairo-Giza and Ausim,
Qualyub-Benha and Alexandria-Sidi Gaber, and of Centralized Traffic Control on
the Sohag-Nag Hammadi sections (including necessary modification of track);
modification of mechanical signalling installations and introduction of token-less
block on some sections.
F.   Miscellaneous: acquisition of road vehicles, reorganization of stores facilities
and augmentation of stock of essential stores including spares, improvement of


﻿19
electric power supply on the Helewan line, training center facilities, training abroad
of key personnel of ER, and the employment of consultants for the introduction
of costing procedures in ER.


﻿20
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
Estimated expenditure for each Part
of the Railway Investment Program
Part                                       LE million
A                                            41.4
B                                             9.7
C                                            53.0
D                                             7.8
E                                             9.6
F                                             6.3
Contingencies                                       9.2
TOTAL             137.0


