CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 284 UAR
Project Agreement
(Railways Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 284 UAR
Project Agreement
(Railways Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9,1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EGYPTIAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION (hereinafter called ER).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) between Arab
Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that ER agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and ER, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ER on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ER, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ER shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, engineering and railways management practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credit,, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)   ER undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by ER to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ER shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) ER shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project and
contract documents for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and any material modifications or amplifications thereof, in such
detail as the Asso.iation shall reasonably request.
(b)   ER: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.04. ER shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ER shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of ER
Section 3.01. ER shall at all times manage its affairs and conduct its
operations in an efficient manner under experienced and competent management
and in accordance with sound business, financial and railways practices.


﻿5
Section 3.02. ER shall: (i) operate and maintain its plant, equipment and
property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
in accordance with sound engineering and railways management practices; and (ii)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. ER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound railways practices.
Section 3.04. Except in the ordinary course of business, ER shall not, without
the consent of the Association, sell or otherwise dispose of any of the property
or plant financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit or necessary
to ER's operations.
Section 3.05. ER shall carry out the Railway Investment Program with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and railways management practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ER shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. ER shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by competent and independent auditors and in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (13)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of FR
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ER shah
take or cause to be taken from time to time all necessary measures satisfactory
to the Association (including but not limited to adjustments of the tariff structures


﻿6
and rates) as shall be required to enable ER, out of internally generated funds:
(A) to meet interest on and to amortize its debt, (B) to maintain adequate working
capital, (C) to establish and maintain reserves adequate to meet contingencies, (D)
to meet the fixed return on the Borrower's investment in ER, and (E) to finance
a reasonable proportion of its capital expenditures, including the replacement of
assets.
(b)   To meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this Section ER shall
earn an adequate annual rate of return. Such rate shall not be less than 4.5%
from the fiscal year 1974. A revision of this rate of return may be agreed upon
by the Association and ER when the assets of ER are revalued pursuant to Section
4.05 of this Agreement, or a revision is otherwise considered necessary to meet
such requirements.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
net operating income for the fiscal year in question to the
average of the values of the net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year.
(ii)        The term  "value of net fixed assets in operation" means the
gross book value of such assets, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, as determined from time to time in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Association.
(iii)       The term "net operating income" means the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from  services and any
incidental income of ER; and
(B)   operating, maintenance and administrative expenses, taxes
(if any) and adequate provision for depreciation, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt and the fixed
return on the Borrower's investment in ER.
(iv)        The term  "internally generated funds" means the total of net
operating income plus the provision for depreciations.
Section 4.04. ER shall: (a) introduce by March 31, 1)73 or such other date
as may be agreed by the Association a cost accounting system satisfactory to the


﻿7
Association to determine the relevant costs of the services provided by ER; and
(b) for that purpose employ consultants satisfactory to the Association on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association to assist in the installation of said
system.
Section 4.05. ER shall by June 30, 1973: (a) have its fixed assets revalued
in accordance with sound valuation principles for railway operations satisfactory
to the Association; and (b) furnish the Association with a full report on the said
revaluation prepared by the auditors required to audit ER's accounts and financial
statements under Section 4.02 hereof.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association and ER shall otherwise mutually
agree, ER shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue of ER, for the fiscal
year or for the twelve consecutive months, immediately preceding the date of'such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.2 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of ER, including
the debt to be incurred. For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The term "debt" means obligations of ER which involve interest
or amortization payments, excluding debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business, and maturing not more than one
year after its date.
(ii)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt, includes any
modification of the terms of payments of such debt.
(iii)       Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a loan agreement or, in the case of a guarantee
of debt, on the date of execution and delivery of the agreement
providing for such guarantee.
(iv)        The term "net revenue" means gross operating revenue, adjusted
to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence
of debt even though such tariffs were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such revenue relates,
less all operating, maintenance and administrative expenses and
taxes, but before provision for depreciation and interest and
other charges on debt.
(v)         The term    "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization, interest and other charges on debt
excluding fixed return on the Borrower's investment in ER.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ER shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ER shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ER and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ER shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and ER of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ER shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of ER and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ER thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ER of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿9
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ER:
The Chairman of Egyptian Railways
Ramses Square
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Egyptian Railways
Ramses Square, Cairo


﻿10
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement on behalf of ER may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of ER or such other person or persons as said Chairman shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. ER shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of ER, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by ER pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
EGYPTIAN RAILWAYS
By /s/ YoussefSharara
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    With respect to contracts relating to Categories 1, 11 and III of the table
to Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, the following procedures
shall apply:
1.    With respect to any contract for goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more:
(a)   before bids are invited, ER shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to be followed
for the bidding (including a list of publications in which the advertisement will
appear and the time to be allowed for bid preparation) and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification or addition to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ER shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received. The Association shall promptly inform ER whether it has
any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection
it may have.
(c)   If a contract shall be awarded according to procedures inconsistent
with those set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement or over
the Association's objection or if the terms and conditions shall, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked,
no expenditures thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(d)   Two copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution.
2.    With respect to any contract for goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent,
ER shall, promptly after the contract is awarded and prior to submitting to the
Association the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit in respect
of the contract, furnish to the Association two copies of the contract as well as


﻿12                                           C
a copy of the invitation to bid, the record of opening of the bids and the bid
evaluation report. The Association shall promptly inform ER if it finds that the
award of the contract is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and, in such event, no expenditures thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
B.    With respect to contracts relating to Categories IV and V to said Schedule
1, negotiated contracts would be eligible for financing under the Credit, subject
to the following conditions:
(a)   the contract is in conformity with the standard form  of contract
adopted by ER;
(b)   the terms and conditions of the contract (and any amendments thereto)
and the parties with whom they are negotiated have been agreed with the
Association.


