Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3411 
Operation Name 
BI-ERSGII 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%); general industry and 
trade sector (30%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(5%); mining (5%) 
Project ID 
P102508 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Tel: +257 223988 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Burundi 
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 30, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 5, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With an estimated per capita income of US$125 in 2006, Burundi remains one of the poorest countries in the 
world. In the mid 1990s, political turmoil over the sharing of power and access to opportunities resulted in ethnic 
violence which has marked much of the recent history of the country. A 2001 peace plan was relatively successful 
in securing a transitional government.  In 2005, elections led to a democratically elected president and Parliament.  
The country is currently in a fragile peace, with the authorities trying to finalize the peace process with the last 
rebel group.   The government is committed to move the country from a post-conflict stage  towards a normal, 
steadily-growing economy.  The reforms have encompassed demobilization, public finance ,private sector 
development, procurement, and coffee sector reforms.    While progress has been made in several of these areas, 
the pace of reform has been slow, as it has been affected by the 2006 and 2007 internal political struggles and 
three governments reshuffle (the last in July 2007).  Continued structural and public finance reforms are needed to 
help the country graduate from a post-conflict environment.  
 
In September 2006, a full PRSP 
–
the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty was approved.  It 
aims to strengthen political stability, consolidate peace, and reduce poverty through accelerated, sustainable, and 
equitable growth.  The principal strategic axes of the PRSP are: (i) improving governance and security; (ii) 
promoting sustainable and equitable economic growth; (iii) developing human capital; and (iv) combating 
HIV/AIDS.  Key structural measures pursued by government to achieve higher and sustained rates of economic 
growth have included some improvements in the business environment; privatization of some smaller public 
enterprises; the agricultural sector, including coffee. 
 
In this post-conflict and fragile context, IDA has provided critical and continued budget support to the 
Government of Burundi to help the transition from a post-conflict economic environment to one that is focused on 
economic development driven by private sector growth.  IDA provided the Emergency Economic Recovery 
Page  2
Credit (EERC, 2000), the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC, 2002), and the Economic Reform Support Grant 
(ERSG, 2006).   
The rationale for Bank’s continued involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide significant resources (from IDA 
and three bilateral donors) to narrow the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the 
government program and available resources from Burundi’s own sources and other donors,  (b) its technical 
contributions to the policy dialogue, grounded in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a 
track record of work in post-conflict  country, and (c) the preference by the Burundi authorities to receive a 
significant part of IDA resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, 
capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by using the 
government’s budget process for the use of donor resources. 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The overall objective of  ERSG II  is to help the transition from a post-conflict economic environment to one that 
is focused on economic development driven by private sector growth.  The specific objectives of the proposed 
Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG II) are to continue supporting the government in (i) reforming the public 
finance management (PFM) to improve accountability and  transparency in public spending; and (ii) reforming 
the business legal and institutional environment to foster private-sector-led growth; (iii) fostering traditional 
exports by supporting reforms in the coffee subsector and modernizing the legal framework of the mining 
subsector. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The program content of the proposed ERG II builds on the Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG, 2006).  The 
first component will focus on consolidating the PFM reforms in budget preparation,, execution, and reporting .  
The second component will support efforts to modernize the business legal and institutional framework (such as 
investment code, commercial codes, and the guichet unique). The third component will focus on fostering exports 
by providing continued support to the coffee reforms and modernizing the legal framework of the mining 
subsector.  This last component is based on the central role of coffee in the country’s economy as a source of 
employment and income.  The current dysfunctional production and marketing system is a handicap to 
diversifying to higher value added coffee production, which could improve the earning potentials of many farmers 
and their dependents.   Also, in the medium to long term, Burundi needs to diversify its income source and the 
resiliency of its economy to external shocks.  One such source of diversification is the burgeoning mining sector, 
where there are international investors interested in exploring the country’s potentially significant natural 
resources (mining and gas).   
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
As the DPL focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on Burundi’s 
environment, forests, and other natural resources.  The DPL – in coordination with a newly approved IDF - will 
support modernizing the legal framework and strengthening the institutional framework of the mining sector, 
which is currently artisanal, ensuring that environmental concerns are taken into account in the draft law and its 
related regulations. In the coffee sector, the reform aims at increasing the share of producers in the border price 
and increasing both the production and quality of coffee through liberalization, privatization, and revamping of 
services.  The increase in production is expected to come from an improvement in the current extremely low 
productivity and more efficient use of land not through clearing of forests, nor extending cropping into marginal 
lands and commons.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
Page  3
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
Contact point 
Contact: Dorsati H. Madani 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-7925 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: Dmadani@worldbank.org 
 
