Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H422-BI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Economic Reform Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 19, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H422-BI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 19, 2008 entered into between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of: 
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to eighteen million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000
)
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-withdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Development Cooperation 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Facsimile: 
257 22 22 38 27 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 
248423(MCI) or 
1 202 477 6391 
Washington, DC 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By /s/ Clotilde NIZIGAMA 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane SOW 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
A. Budget 
Management
1. 
Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new draft organic budget 
law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association and reflecting relevant 
current international standards, in accordance with paragraph 36 of the LDP. 
2. 
Establishment of a budget preparation timetable, related responsibilities of 
various entities, and the principal elements of a future framework letter for 
purposes of improvement of timeline and efficiency of budget preparation 
process, all through the promulgation of legislation, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 37 of the LDP. 
3. 
Improvement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, of the identification 
methodology applicable to poverty reduction expenditures, through revision of 
the criteria for functional classification of such expenditures on the basis of the 
Recipient’s 2006 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, in accordance with 
paragraph 38 of the LDP. 
4. 
Preparation and implementation, by the ministry at the time responsible for 
finance, in consultation with the Recipient’s ministries at the time responsible for 
public security, national defense, and ex-combatants, national education, 
agriculture, health, and AIDS control, commencing the second quarter of 2008, 
of revolving quarterly cash flow plans, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, based on realistic revenue forecasts and assessments of seasonal 
expenditure requirements, and providing said ministries quarterly commitment 
ceilings, in accordance with paragraph 40 of the LDP. 
5. 
Submission, to the Audit Court, of the 2006 and 2007 general and extra-
budgetary government accounts, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with paragraph 43 of the LDP. 
6. 
Reestablishment, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, of an internal 
inspection and verification unit under the supervisory authority of the ministry at 
the time responsible for finance, with an institutional framework, functions, and 
resources satisfactory to the Association, including adoption of a 2008 work 
program, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and transmittal to 
Page  7
-
6
-
the Association of a draft procedures manual governing the functioning of said 
unit, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with 
paragraph 42 of the LDP. 
B. Business 
Growth
7. 
Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new draft investment code, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association and reflecting relevant 
current international standards, in accordance with paragraph 44 of the LDP. 
8. 
Re-launch of a public-private consultation framework with regard to economic 
policy relating to private sector development, through the promulgation of 
legislation, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance 
with paragraph 45 of the LDP. 
9. 
Launch, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, of a study analyzing the 
institutional capacity of the Recipient for public enterprise reform and including 
a
related action plan for purposes of improvement of said capacity, in accordance 
with paragraph 46 of the LDP. 
10. 
Publication, in French and Kirundi, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, 
of green coffee export sales regulations, setting out the rules applicable to 
marketing during the Recipient’s 2008 coffee season and approved by the 
Council of the Coffee Office of Burundi, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, in accordance with paragraph 47 of the LDP. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General.   
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amount of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
18,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
18,500,000 
Page  8
-
7
-
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association
 (“Deposit Account”); and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any 
 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.  Amounts refunded to 
 
the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  9
-
8
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another financing, credit, grant, or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)  
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, un-
worked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the  
United Nations; and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that  
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
2. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules, and agreements supplemental 
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credit and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Letter of Development Policy” or “LDP” means the letter referred to in paragraph 6 of 
this Section. 
5. 
“Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper” means the document setting out a country's 
macroeconomic, structural, and social policies and programs to promote growth and 
reduce poverty, as well as associated external financing needs, prepared by governments 
through a participatory process involving civil society and development partners, 
including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to  
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred  
to in the letter dated June 19, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program.” 
__________
 
