Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
Rqepot No. 12713
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2927-MAS)
JANUARY 31, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                    Mauritian Rupee (Rs.)
US$ 1.00
Appraisal                   =Rs. 12.50
June 1988                   =Rs. 13.95
June 1989                                       PRs. 15.62
June 1990                                        Rs. 15.41
June 1991                                        Rs. 16.91
June 1992                   =Rs. 15.10
June 1993                   =Rs. 17.59
ACRONYMS
BOM        =     Bank of Mauritius
CPI        =     Consumer Price Inflation
DBM        =     Development Bank of Mauritius
DFC        =     Development Finance Company
ECU        =     European Currency Unit
EEC        =     European Economic Community
EPZ        =     Export Processing Zone
ERR        =     Economic Rate of Return
FRR        =     Financial Rate of Return
FY         =     Fiscal Year
GDP        =     Gross Domestic Product
MBRD       =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISAL       =     Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
MCB        =     Mauritius Commercial Bank
MCBFC    =       Mauritius Commercial Bank Financing Corporation
MLC        =     Mauritius Leasing Company
MEDIA    =       Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
PFI        =     Participating Financial Intermediary
SAL        =     Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR        =     Staff Appraisal Report
SCB        =     State Commercial Bank
SEM        =     Stock Exchange of Mauritius
SIL        =     State Informatics Ltd.
DBM's FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Oeneral
Operatons Evaluatlon
January 31, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Mauritius
Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2927-MAS)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mauritius - Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2927-
MAS) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II, contributed by the Borrower, highlights the positive
aspects of project outcomes and institutional strengthening.
One objective of the project was to promote employment and foreign exchange earnings through
investments in key industry and infrastructure subsectors. Another objective was to improve the financial
sector by increasing competition in the supply of term credit. Bank funds were to be supplied to the
Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM), and to a commercial bank through an apex mechanism that could
later be expanded. A third objective was to strengthen the two participating financial intermediaries.
The benefits of the investment operations did not materialize in a number of cases where
subprojects made losses and produced arrears in DBM's portfolio. Overall, the cost of investment per job
is high. In the financial sector, the apex mechanism was not implemented, because the sector was still
highly regulated and not conducive to more competition through apex. DBM became the only intermediary
for the Bank loan. It did not operate in a competitive environment and had no market incentive to improve
substantially its management and operations. Therefore, its institutional strengthening has been slow. Now
that the financial sector is being liberalized, the sustainability of DBM depends upon its capability to
further increase efficiency.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain, and its
institutional development impact as partial.
The PCR provides a frank account of project outcomes, and rightly places them in the framework
of financial sector liberalization.
The operation may be audited together with previous DFC projects in Mauridus.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. ha conteds
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURIIIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2927-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO,
PREFACE             ..................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity.                                               1
2. Background.                                                      1
3. Project Design and Organization.                                4
4. Project Objectives and Description.                             5
5. Project Implementation                    .5
6. Project Results.                                                7
7. Sustainability .12
8. Bank Performance .15
9. DBM's Performance .15
10. Project Relationship    ..20
11. Project Documentation and Data   .          .20
12. Lessons Learned    ..21
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.                                 23
A. DBM's Perspective on the Development Impact,
Design and Implementation of the Project .23
B. Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual Information
in Parts I and m .24
C. DBM's Analysis on Contents of Part I .24
D. DBM's Own Performance During the Evolution and
Implementation of the Project .25
E. The Effectiveness of the Relationship Between
the World Bank and the DBM .27
F. Strategic Planning .27
G. Procedures and Systems .28
H. Human Resource Base .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAGE NO.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                     .......................... 30
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ................ 30
Table 2: Project Timetable  ..........................  31
Table 3: Loan Disbursements ......................... 33
Table 4: Project Implementation ....................... 33
Table 5: Project Cost and Financing  .................... 34
Table 6: Project Results    ..........................  35
Table 7: Status of Compliance with Major Covenants ....     ...... 36
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources ....................... 38
Annex 1: Profile of Banking System  .................... 39
Annex 2: Profile of Subprojects Financed  ................. 40
Annex 3: DBM: Arrears Analysis ...................... 42
Annex 4: Comparison of Level of Supervision Effort
with Other Projects Involving DBM  ....      ........ 44
Annex 5: DBM:  Comparative Operations 1988-1992 .45
Annex 6: DBM:  Projected and Actual Income
Statements 1988-1992.                        46
Projected and Actual Balance
Sheets 1988-1992 .47
Projected and Actual Sources and
Uses of Funds 1988-1992 .48
Projected and Actual Financial
Ratios 1988-1992 .49



- i -
MAURPlUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2927-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
PREFACE
This project completion report (PCR) reviews the performance of the Industrial Finance
Project in Mauritius, for which Loan 2927-MAS (US$10 million) was approved by the Board on
March 14, 1988. The proceeds of the loan were channelled through the Bank of Mauritius (BOM),
the apex agency, for relending by participating financial institutions (PFIs) to private enterprises in
the industrial, tourism, transportation, and construction sectors. The loan was closed with the
cancellation of US$0.92 million on March 5, 1993.
The Industry and Energy Operations Division of Country Department Im, Africa Region
prepared Parts I and HI of this PCR. The Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM), the only PFI
ultimately to intermediate any project funds, and the project coordinating unit at BOM prepared Part
II.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and DBM; internal Bank
memoranda; DBM's audited financial statements; and a project completion mission.






- iii -
MAUIBTIUS
NDUSRAL FINANCE PROE
LOAN 2927-MAS
PROJECT COMPLETON RPR
EVALUATIONUMMARY
Bacipui
1.    At the time of project preparation (1987), the Mauritian economy was in its fourth year of rapid
expansion, propelled by manufactured exports and tourism. The banking system was already fairly well
developed, although segmented and highly regulated. Monetary policy was based on instruments of direct
control, with banks other than Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) subject to credit ceilings, credit
allocation directives, and liquidity requirements. The Government's export-led industrialization strategy
provided a comprehensive package of incentives to exporters, including preferential access to credit and
serviced industrial sites. The Bank's country assistance strategy included: (i) support for structural
adjustment efforts, and (ii) assistance to make the financial sector more responsive to the requirements
of an expanding economy by broadening and strengthening the financial intermediation process and by
the development of capital markets (Part I, paras. 2.1-2.7).
OfJjcdves
2.    The main objectives of the project were to assist in: (a) creating employment and increasing
foreign exchange earnings through investments in the industrial, tourism, transport and construction
sectors; and (b) diversifying the financial sector by (i) improving competition in the supply of term
fmance, and (ii) giving access to long-term foreign currency resources to banking institutions. The
project also sought to strengthen the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM) institutionally. Under the
apex arrangement, the Bank of Mauritius (BOM), the borrower, was to on-lend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to two Government-owned financial institutions, DBM and State Commercial Bank (SCB), for
relending to eligible medium- and large-scale sub-bofrowers (Part I, paras. 4.1-4.2).
Proied Implementation
3.    The project was implemented in a financial sector characterized by extensive regulations, which
precluded full attainment of the project's objectives related to financial broadening. However, as the
sector has since been liberalized significantly, the same project if initiated today would perhaps have a
better chance of achieving greater success. As a result of this aspect of timing, the results and lessons
of the project - especially those related to DBM's institutional strengthening - should not be interpreted
simply in retrospective, but more appropriately, as a guide for the future (Part I, para. 5.1).
4.    Disbursements took place over four fiscal years, and the undisbursed balance of US$917,731 was
cancelled on March 5, 1993. The pace of disbursements initially lagged behind that anticipated at
appraisal, but later picked up. Although the project did not involve any unusual risks, the excess liquidity
in the banking sector significantly undermined the achievement of the project's objectives regarding
financial sector development. This excess liquidity resulted from the large accumulation of foreign
reserves; strict foreign exchange controls; and credit ceilings, which formed the basis of monetary policy.
Because the commercial banks could roll over short-term working capital lines, this excess liquidity could



- iv -
be transformed into quasi-term finance, thereby producing alternative sources of locally-mobilized
financial resources vis-a-vis the proceeds of the Bank loan (Part I, para. 5.2). Ultimately, the apex
concept never materialized in practice, as SCB, for various reasons, did not use any IBRD resources.
SCB felt that its inclusion in the project was driven mainly by the need to fulfill the institutional aspects
of the apex mechanism, and not in response to market incentives (Part I, para. 5.3). Administratively,
the project unit of the BOM acted efficiently in its capacity as the conduit of IBRD funds, but felt its role,
and the apex concept itself were superfluous (Part I, para. 5.4).
Results
5.    Expansion of Private Sector Investment: In terms of direct benefits, the project supported the
development of the private sector by providing US$9.1 million in financing to 28 sub-borrowers to
facilitate investments with total capital costs of US$77.7 million. A large majority (72 percent) of IBRD
funds went toward subprojects in tourism, compared with lending for industrial subprojects, which was
considerably lower (seven percent). Overall, the subprojects had ex-ante economic rates of return ranging
from 15.0 percent to 38.6 percent, and a median of 18.4 percent. Financially, the subprojects had ex-
ante returns between 12.0 percent and 40.0 percent, with a median of 17.0 percent. Although ex-post
returns were not calculated, they were probably lower than initially expected, given the low occupancy
rates of hotels and the mixed performance indicators of export processing zone and import-substituting
companies (Part I, paras. 6.1-6.2, 9.3, 9.7).
6.    Job Creation: The project helped facilitate the creation of 1,402 jobs, for an average of 50 per
company, and around US$55,000 per job. The greatest estimated job creation occurred in the tourism
sector, where the incremental employment could potentially surpass 1,050, and in industry, where 334
new jobs were spawned (Part I, para. 6.9).
7.    Institutional Strengthening: The greatest success of the project is related to DBM's institutional
strengthening, which covered principally (i) organization, management, and human resources;
(ii) financial and accounting policies; (iii) procedures; and (iv) electronic data processing systems (Part
I, para. 6.10), as explained in the paragraphs below.
8.    Organization/Management/Human Resources: The most important qualitative improvements
followed DBM's initiative to incorporate under the private Companies Act, and its hiring a new,
expatriate Executive Director. These measures resulted in the bank's operating under a greater measure
of commercial discipline as reflected in more prudent financial and portfolio management than in the past.
The new Executive Director carried out a thorough institutional review, resulting in an organizational
restructuring designed to decentralize management and delegate greater responsibility downward.
Important changes regarding human resources also followed with the introduction of: (i) greater planning
in recruitment, (ii) promotion criteria based on performance rather than seniority, (iii) individual
performance appraisals, and (iv) an operational manual (Part I, paras. 6.11-6.12).
9.    Financial/Accounting Policies: Another vitally important development was DBM's change of
external auditors in 1989 from a small firm to the largest local auditing firm, with an international
association. This firm has conducted an "ongoing audit' to help improve DBM's internal controls.
Regarding accounting policies, for example, the auditor has convinced DBM to apply more prudent
practices relating to income recognition and provisions, to avoid accrual of certain unrealized amounts
and to rationalize its equity base (Part I, paras. 6.13-6.15).
10.   Procedures: DBM has strengthened procedures in the accounts department and in other areas
of operations. For example, it has improved portfolio management and follow-up of long overdue
accounts, through tighter debt workout, recovery, and wind-up procedures (Part 1, paras. 6.16-6.19).



-v -
11.   Svstems: Although a protracted process, DBM's improved computer systems - covering loan
management, expense and revenue analysis, financial and management accounts, and management
information systems - is a major institutional advancement (Part I, 6.20-6.21).
Sustainabgli
12.   With its institutional improvements, there is no doubt that DBM is in a better position now to deal
with the prospect of increased competitive pressures emanating from the evolving liberalization and
innovation in the financial sector, both in terms of instruments and institutions (Part I, paras. 7.2-7.4).
However, growth opportunities in domestic banking will continue to be constrained by the size of the
island, in spite of Mauritius' move into a new, higher value-added phase of development. In the future,
these forces could expose DBM and the financial sector in general to increased competition. Meanwhile
these pressures will be compounded by the deepening that has occurred in the financial sector in recent
years with the advent of equity markets and leasing, which, at the margin, could substitute for term
lending (Part I, para. 7.5). Despite some important accomplishments since its corporatization, DBM
must, nevertheless, continue to seek greater operational efficiency and quality in order to prosper in a
more deregulated, competitive environment. Areas DBM still needs to focus on include, among others:
-     improving the efficiency and profitability of its financial intermediation;
-     strengthening its financial management and capital structure;
-     adopting greater strategic planning and vision for future;
-     consolidating and accelerating its incipient improvements in organization, procedures and systems
before experiencing significant portfolio growth; and
-     reinforcing its human resource base (Part I, paras. 7.6-7.8).
Lessons
13.   There are several lessons (Part I, paras. 12.1-12.5):
(i)          There was a mismatch between the Government's and the Bank's objectives. The Bank's
view was that competition would help DBM improve its performance. The Government,
on the other hand, was keen on maintaining DBM as the sole source of long term
financing. The Government eventually prevailed, but the project failed to achieve
broader objectives. The apex concept was discarded and for lack of competition, DBM
did not make as significant a contribution to Mauritius booming export-led industrial
development as could have been the case.
(ii)         In any event, the Bank's objective of enhancing competition in the financial sector could
not be achieved in the absence of an agreement with the Government on an agenda for
sector reform, including deregulation and liberalization. Such reform, which is now
being implemented, was the key to mobilizing adequate savings and to their efficient
allocation for term investment.
(iii)        Although DBM was covered by a Government guarantee, the magnitude of its foreign
exchange losses reinforces the rationale underlying generally applied Bank policy of not
accepting that financial intermediaries bear foreign exchange risks, unless there is an
adequate forward market to hedge against them.






MAURITIUS
DUSTRLAL INANCE PROET
LOAN 2927-MAS
PROJECT COMPLMON REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Projed Identify
Name         :Industrial Finance Project
Loan Number :2927-MAS
RVP Unit   :Africa Region
Country      :Mauritius
Sector       :Industry
Subsector    :Industrial Finance
2. Background
2.1          Economic Structure and Performance: Mauritius, a small country of 1,860 square
kilometers, has a population of roughly 1.1 million, growing at a slow rate of around 1 percent per year.
In 1987, when the project was under preparation, GDP at market prices was approximately US$1.9
billion equivalent, and had been increasing at a brisk yearly average rate of 6.3 percent. Total industry's
share of GDP was about 33 percent at factor prices, with manufacturing alone accountng for around 25
percent. Roughly half of value of manufacturing output was coming from the Export Processing Zones
(EPZs), which were overwhelmingly dominated by clothing and textiles. Manufactured exports in 1987
amounted to US$486 million, or more than half of the country's total exports of US$918 million.
2.2          Rapid Export-Led Growth In the 1980's: In 1987, the Mauritian economy was in its
fourth year of rapid expansion, following a period of stagnation from 1979-1983. Driving the remarkable
performance was a boom in manufactured exports, which were growing at a yearly rate of 30 percent in
real terms. Based on the EPZ, the Mauritian economy was one of the true success stories of export-led
manufacturing growth, as the external sector benefitted from an outward-oriented, free-trade, investor-
friendly framework conducive to international competitiveness. In addition, the tourism sector was
making important contributions to growth in the economy. As a result of an ongoing investment boom,
the demand for foreign exchange to finance new investments in productive sectors had grown
considerably. The incentives and trade regime was strongly dualistic, however, as the domestic market
production, outside the EPZ, remained highly regulated and protected.
2.3          Mauritius' Finandal Sector: The financial sector was already fairly well developed.
The main actors in financial system were commercial banks and the Development Bank of Mauritius
(DBM), which together accounted for nearly 75 percent of the sector's assets at the time of appraisal
(Annex 1). The banking system was highly concentrated with the three largest banks - Mauritius
Commercial Bank (MCB), Mauritius Commercial Bank Financing Corporation (MCBFC) and State



- 2 -
Commercial Bank (SCB) - holding 69 percent of commercial bank loans to the private sector.Y The
banking system was specialized as reflected in the maturity profile of the respective institutions' deposits:
commercial banks mobilized shorter-term deposits and concentrated on overdrafts and loans of less than
three years; SCB focussed on deposits with an average maturity of about three years and lent
predominantly medium-term (five to seven years); MCBFC funded itself from time deposits averaging
three to four year years, which it used for medium-term lending; and DBM, the only financial institution
authorized to contract loans abroad, concentrated on longer-term loans with an average maturity of eight
years, although it could lend for up to 15 years.
2.4           Financial Sector Policies: Until recently, the banking system in Mauritius was highly
regulated. Monetary policy was based on credit ceilings and credit allocation directives. Commercial
banks were requested to channel 75 percent of their lending at low interest rates to priority sectors, which
included sugar and EPZ activities. In addition, commercial banks were subject to liquidity requirements
amounting to 30 percent of total deposits, thereby constraining their levels of lending. Although the
interest rate structure had been liberalized, the Government still exercised control over minimrum deposit
rates and over lending rates through significant moral suasion. DBM, however, was not subject to either
the credit ceilings or to liquidity requirements.
2.5           Bank Support for Export-led Growth: The Government's export-led industrialization
strategy had received support from two IBRD structural adjustment loans (SALs) in 1981 and 1983, and
the 1987 Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL). Under the two SALs, the Government implemented
a number of policy reforms aimed at restoring the competitiveness of Mauritius' industrial exports and
encouraging foreign and local investment. The price liberalization and elimination of quantitative import
restrictions under SAL II (1983) were important steps toward reducing protection to import-substituting
manufacturing.  The ISAL, to which the Government viewed the Industrial Finance Project as
complementary, included a set of medium-term policy reforms aimed at greater outward-orientation in
the trade regime to improve further Mauritius' industrial competitiveness. These measures focussed on:
(a) appropriate exchange rate and wage policies; (b) extending the investment incentives to non-EPZ
firms; (c) reducing protection to import-substituting manufacturing by eliminating quantitative import
restrictions, and reducing price controls and some tariffs; (d) facilitating foreign investment and
technology transfer; and (e) encouraging private investment by lowering corporate income taxes. In
addition, the Government's comprehensive package of incentives to exporters, based on the East Asian
model, included preferential access to credit and serviced industrial sites.
2.6           Bank Strateg: The Bank's country assistance strategy at the time had two objectives.
First, the Bank sought to identify policy reforms to increase investment and employment, and to promote
economic diversification and the efficient use of Mauritius' scarce resources. In this connection, the Bank
strove to make the financial sector more responsive to the requirements of an expanding economy, by
broadening and strengthening the financial intermediation process and, ultimately, by developing capital
markets. The Industrial Finance Project was an important element of the strategy to achieve this
objective. Second, the Bank endeavored to assist the Government in designing and financing investment
projects that would build on reforms under Mauritius' structural adjustment program and the ISAL.
Thus, in addition to the Industrial Finance Project, the Bank was preparing lending operations in
infrastructure, environmental protection, agricultural diversification and manpower training.
I/ Thi concentsrion has persinted, as the the largest banks accounted for 65 percent of the loans to te private sector as of June
30, 1992.



- 3 -
2.7          Rationale for Bank Involvement: In addition to supporting Mauritius' export-led
industrialization strategy through adjustment lending, the Bank assisted the industrial sector through
several lines of credit to DBM. In general, the financial sector had responded well to the financing
requirements of the industrial sector. However, the rapid economic expansion in the mid-1980s had
strained the ability of the commercial financial institutions to expand or even continue lending at the same
level. Until 1986, the main sources of term financing other than DBM were two finance corporations
organized outside the purview of banking regulations. However, the incorporation of the latter into the
regulated commercial banking systemn obligated them to comply with liquidity ratios and credit ceilings,
thereby significantly decreasing their levels of lending. DBM, however, did not have the absorptive
capacity to handle the projected financial demand by itself, having already grown 30 percent in real terms
since 1984. Accordingly, the capacity of the financial sector to provide adequate term financing in
support of continued export-led growth was being constrained by: (i) DBM's staffing and organizational
limitations; (ii) commercial banks' limited project appraisal capability; and (iii) the lack of adequate long-
term resources, particularly in the form of deposits, in the commercial banks. The Bank sought to help
address these constraints by setting up a mechanism whereby two banks, DBM and SCB, would have
access to long-term foreign currency resources to lend for long-term investments. Through the project,
the Bank would also be in a position to help strengthen DBM's organization and management, and to
develop SCB's project evaluation capacity.
2.8          Performance Under Past Loans in the Sector:  Project implementation had been
generally satisfactory in Mauritius, as the country had the administrative and technical capacity to handle
most project responsibilities. There had sometimes been delays, because of weaknesses in coordination
among ministries and entities responsible for project formulation and execution.  Disbursement
performance had been close to the Bank-wide average.
2.9           By and large, the results of the previous credit lines as well as DBM's performance had
been considered acceptable. The objectives of DBM II, II and IV (Report No. 6206-MAS, May 27,
1986) had been largely met, and DBM had proven itself to be one of the more successful development
finance companies (DFCs) with which the Bank had been associated. Nevertheless, there was still room
for improvement, particularly regarding supervision and arrears. The real sector impact of these credit
lines was generally favorable, as investment cost per job varied between US$7,200 and US$28,800.
Overall, DBM V and VI had assisted in sustaining DBM as a strong, viable local institution to serve as
a catalyst for industrial development in Mauritius (Report No. 10207-MAS, December 27, 1991). The
performance of subprojects seemed adequate, and DBM had achieved some institutional strengthening.
During this time, the devaluation of the rupee (and the expectation of further devaluation) had increased
the subloans' foreign exchange risk - resulting in large actual and potential foreign exchange losses for
sub-borrowers - and, consequently, had rendered the Banks' loans unattractive. Therefore, DBM
instituted a foreign exchange risk cover scheme, with the Government assuming most of the foreign
exchange risk. Portions of the last two credit lines, however, were cancelled by DBM because of the
high cost of IBRD funds, compared with other donors. Meanwhile, results under the ISAL, were mixed
(Report No. 10653-MAS, May 19, 1992), as average tariff rates - over which there was considerable
disagreement between the Bank and the Government - fell, but remained high. During 1989-1991,
moreover, the number of products subject to price controls increased. These developments affected
mainly the non-EPZ sector, while EPZ activities continued to expand under a free-trade regime.
a/ One of these, State Commercial Bank Financing Corporation, was absorbed by its pamat, SCB, and the other, MCBFC,
acquired a banking license.



3. Project Design and Organization
3.1          Overiew: In addition to supporting private sector investment, the Bank's objective in
proposing the apex format of the project was to broaden the institutional base for, and increase
competition and efficiency in, long-term investment financing by promoting on-lending through a wider
range of intermediaries. The Bank thus aimed to move beyond traditional lending to a DFC as had been
the case in six prior operations with DBM dating back to 1972, involving US$39.5 million (Table 1).
Preparation of the project took place at a time when the Bank itself was shifting to apex fmnancing-V
mechanisms globally. The Bank had already financed several such operations in the Africa region. In
addition to the project's broader macroeconomic and sectoral goals, the design of the institutional
strengthening measures for DBM were appropriate in light of its continuing weaknesses, despite the
Bank's generally satisfactory experiences with DBM since 1972, and the prospects of continued rapid
growth in its activities.
3.2           Preliminary discussions about the project began in December 1985 during supervision of
the DBM V and VI credit lines, when DBM requested a seventh line of credit, and the Mauritius Export
Development and Investment Authority (MEDIA) requested Bank funding for its industrial estate
development program. As originally designed, the project consisted of two elements: (i) an apex line of
credit of US$9 million to BOM for on-lending to DBM and several public and private commercial banks;
and (ii) an industrial estate development component amounting to US$5 million, for the construction of
industrial buildings.
3.3          The Bank sought to encourage competition in long-term financial intermediation by
making funds available to qualifying institutions through the Bank of Mauritius (BOM).  The
Government, however, preferred instead to continue to channel all foreign loans through DBM - either
through a direct line of credit or with DBM acting as the apex institution (Table 2). After initially
objecting to the apex component of the project following appraisal, the Government finally agreed to the
apex concept, but with some reservations. Since the Government was not ready at that time to guarantee
loans to the private banking sector, the Bank agreed to limit the scope of the project to the two state-
owned banks, despite the fact that during appraisal, MCB, a commercial bank, and its subsidiary,
MCBFC, had been deemed qualified to participate in the apex scheme. The Government, however,
indicated that it would consider allowing other banks to have access to the apex mechanism at a later
stage (para. 12.2). The industrial estates development component ultimately was dropped from the
project since MEDIA had sufficient funding from bilateral agencies.
3.4          Main Design Elements: Operationally, the project had a standard two-tier design. A
project coordinating committee was established at the Bank of Mauritius, the central bank, responsible
for project administration, accreditation of participating financial institutions (PFIs), maintenance of loan
accounts, and enforcement of Subsidiary Financing Agreements with PFIs. Subprojects eligible for
financing included investments in fixed assets and initial working capital, but excluded debt refinancing.
As agreed at negotiations, the minimum acceptable financial rate of return was 12 percent. Projects with
a total investment cost greater than US$600,000 were required to have an economic rate of return of at
least 14 percent. PFIs were obliged to submit full project investment appraisals, including information
regarding procurement, to IBRD for its approval for sub-projects above the free-limit amount of
2/ Whercby the Bank loan would be paed on to an apex agecy, typically the Ctral Bank, which administea the loan and on-
lends to participating fuancial intermedianra, which, in tum, relend to sub-borrowen for inveat projects.



US$600,000. In addition, all PFIs other than DBM were to send the first two subprojects to IBRD for
its approval, after which free-limit procedures would apply. PFIs were responsible for supervising
subprojects and for preparing semi-annual progress reports.
4. Project Objecives and Descnption
4.1          The main objectives of the project were to assist in: (a) creating employment and
increasing foreign exchange earnings in the industrial, tourism, transport and construction sectors; and
(b) broadening the financial sector by (i) improving competition in the supply of term finance; and
(ii) giving access to long-term foreign currency resources to banking institutions. Another key objective
was to strengthen DBM institutionally with an emphasis on expanding its capability for responding to the
economy's growing need for term finance, and by subjecting it to increased competition.
4.2          Under the apex arrangement, the Bank of Mauritius was to be the borrower, and to on-
lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to two Government-owned financial institutions, DBM and SCB.
These two banks, in turn, were to relend the proceeds of the loan to eligible medium- and large-scale sub-
borrowers. IBRD funds were to be available to PFIs according to demand on a "first come first served'
basis, although there was a notional preallocation of the credit line of US$6 million to DBM and US$4
million to SCB, in order to apportion the commitment fees each institution should pay on the undisbursed
balance of the IBRD loan.
5. Project Implementation
5.1          Context: To appreciate the lessons and results of the project, it is important to bear in
mind the circumstances under which it took place. The project represented part of an effort to support
a diversification of the financial sector (paras. 2.6-2.7 and 3.1). However, the project was implemented
in a highly regulated environment, which precluded full attainment of its objectives related to financial
broadening. Although support to private sector investment may have been needed at the time, the
enabling conditions for supporting greater competition in investment financing through a financial
intermediary loan were not propitious. Credit ceilings and liquidity requirements provided banks with
no incentive to mobilize long-term resources, because liquidity requirements were the same for demand
as for term time deposits. In fact, these monetary policy instruments themselves served to crowd the
private sector out of the very type of long-term bank lending that the project intended to support, insofar
as commercial banks held large portfolios of government bonds of 15-20 year maturities, because these
met their legal liquidity requirements. The sector has since been liberalized significantly, as the
Government's policies regarding the financial sector have evolved (paras. 7.2-7.5). Hence, if today's
more liberalized regulatory framework had been in place during implementation, perhaps the apex project
could have had a better chance of more fully achieving its developmental objectives. As a result of this
aspect of timing, the findings of the report - especially those related to DBM's institutional strengthening
- should not be interpreted simply in hindsight, but more appropriately, as a guide for the future.
5.2          Disbursements: Disbursements took place over four fiscal years, and the undisbursed
balance of US$917,731 was cancelled on March 5, 1993. The pace of disbursements initially lagged



- 6 -
behind that anticipated at appraisal, but later picked up.# As a result, the Bank extended the completion
date for submitting subprojects from June 1991 to December 1991. In part this was due to the excess
liquidity in the banking sector, resulting from the large accumulation of foreign reserves in the economy;
strict foreign exchange controls; and the existence of quantitative credit restrictions, which formed the
basis of monetary policy. Because the commercial banks could roll over short-term working capital lines,
this excess liquidity could be transformed into quasi-term finance (para. 9.2), thereby producing
alternative sources of locally-mobilized financial resources vis-a-vis the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Meanwhile the supply of investment opportunities was below expectations at appraisal, because of some
slackening of investment and mounting labor shortages. As all of its subloans were made in local
currency, DBM bore the corresponding foreign exchange risk, for which it charged a three percent per
annum premium (para. 2.9). The subloans initially carried narrowly positive real interest rates, as
indicated below, although since 1990, inflation has subsided considerably:
Calendar       Interest Rate of Subloans Approved that Year        Consumer Price Inflation
Year                           (percent)                                 (percent)
1988                             13.7                                       9.2
1989                             13.4                                       12.6
1990                             14.8                                       13.5
1991                     no subloans approved                               7.0
1992                     no subloans approved                               4.6
As the rupee has devalued nearly 30 percent against the U.S. dollar since 1988, it would appear in
retrospect that the premium charged by DBM was insufficient to cover fully for its assuming the foreign
exchange risk on the subloans. The Government, however, guaranteed to reimburse DBM for any related
losses in excess of its foreign exchange fluctuation fund (paras. 2.9, 9.12, and 12.5).
5.3            Ultimately the project turned into a traditional DFC operation, since SCB did not use any
loan proceeds. IBRD disbursed US$9.1 million through DBM, while the undisbursed amount of US$0.9
million was cancelled at the request of DBM as part of its treasury strategy, given that other donor funds
were cheaper to access. SCB requested no funds, because: (i) it was against the apex institutional
arrangement whereby it had to submit investment proposals through the BOM, preferring instead to
maintain more commercial autonomy; (ii) it had excess liquidity; (iii) it had no demand for sub-
borrowings in foreign exchange, and since it did not have a foreign exchange fluctuation fund, unlike
DBM, SCB was not in a position to absorb the foreign exchange risk by charging the sub-borrowers a
premium; and (iv) it was also concerned about the repayment risk associated with IBRD's currency
pooling. From the start, SCB - which was reluctant to accept the operational oversight associated with
4/ During supervision, disbursements were measurcd against the original June 1991 project completion date (for submision of
subprojects), although the estimated disbursement schedule (Table 3) from the Staff Appraisal Report was based on the standard
profile for industrial development and funnce projects for the Africa region, which spanned nine fucal yearn.
5/ In fact, MCB estimated that even if it had been allowed to participate in the project, its cventual demnand for IBRD funds would
have been only about one-fourth of its anticipated demand at appraisal, because of its cxccs liquidity.



lBRD's subproject reporting requirements (para. 3.4) - did not feel comfortable with the project,
because, unlike DBM, it did not have an existing relationship' with the Bank. Moreover, SCB
perceived that IBRD was being inflexible by imposing a standard apex arrangement. Consequently, SCB
felt that its inclusion in the project was driven mainly by the need to fulfill the institutional aspects of the
apex mechanism, and not in response to market incentives. In retrospect, SCB and the Bank refused to
understand each others' concerns.
5.4            Administratively, there were no problems with implementation. The project unit of the
BOM acted efficiently in its capacity as the institutional conduit, but felt its role, and the apex concept
itself were superfluous, as the Bank already had a long-standing working relationship with DBM. That
the apex mechanism did not work ultimately as planned, however, does not necessarily mean that it was
inappropriate for the Mauritian financial system. Instead, given the targeted medium- and large-scale
corporate market, the enabling environment for the project was inauspicious, because of the existence of
quantitative lending restrictions and alternative sources of funds. Subsequently, the European Economic
Community (EEC) has been able to implement a well-disbursing ECU8 million credit line (Lome HI Line)
based on the apex concept, channelled through the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, with
DBM and Mauritius Co-operative Central Bank as the financial intermediaries." Although it is
earmarked for a different market (small industrial and agricultural projects) and lends at below-market
rates, the Lome III Line has, however, been able to introduce a measure of competition in this particular
niche of the term lending market.
6. Project Results
6.1            Overall Assessment of Investment Impact: The project contributed principally to start-
up investments in the tourism and construction sectors. However, the overall economic impact of these
subprojects has been mixed, insofar as a significant proportion of projects has achieved much lower than
expected capacity utilization, has incurred financial losses, and has produced arrears in DBM's portfolio.
In part, this has been due to generalized over capacity problems in the hotel industry in Mauritius and,
in some cases, unanticipated shifts in demand in foreign markets (e.g., in an EPZ-based optical frames
manufacturing project) and low capacity utilization. Meanwhile, DBM has attained a negative net
financial margin (after provisions and write-offs for bad debts) on its overall lending operations over the
past five years (para. 9.10 below) - although this was in part due to improved accounting policies leading
to recognition of past losses (para. 6.15). In fact, only DBM's industrial estate operations (not financed
by the project) have remained profitable. Investment cost per job (average of $55,000) was very high
by international standards (para. 6.9), particularly for an economy which until recently had abundant
labor and taking account of experience with previous lines of credit to DBM.
6.2            Expansion of Private Sector Investment:  The project succeeded in contributing to
private sector investment, although it did not achieve its objective of broadening access to longer-term
funds. In terms of direct benefits, the project was able to support the development of the private sector
by providing financing to 28 sub-borrowers. In total, DBM extended 30 subloans amounting to US$9.1
6/ Relationships seem to be especially important in the context of Mauritian banking with its emphasis on character-lending.
7/ The EEC lends to the Government at one percent, which on-lends to the banks at four percent, which, in tum, relend to sub-
borrowers at seven to ten percent, depending on the sector. The average term is five to seven years, with final maturity up to 10
years. The main conceptual difference between Lome Ill and the Industrial Finanec Project is that the Government bear the foreign
exchange risk, itself, and not the PFI or the sub-borrower.



- 8 -
million to facilitate investments with total capital costs of US$77.7 million, as summarized in the table
below and detailed in Annex 2. A large majority of IBRD funds, 72 percent, went to subprojects in
tourism (para. 6.5), while lending for industrial subprojects was only seven percent of the total (para.
6.7). Overall, the subprojects had ex-ante economic rates of return ranging from 15.0 percent to 38.6
percent, and a median of 18.4 percent. Financially, the subprojects had ex-ante returns between 12.0
percent and 40.0 percent, with a median of 17.0 percent. Ex-post rates of return and export indicators
were not calculated, but were probably lower than initially expected, given the low occupancy rates of
hotels and the suboptimal performance indicators of some of the subprojects (compared with the
assumptions used at appraisal), as noted below and in para. 6.1. The impact of these subprojects on the
real sector of the economy, however, appears somewhat mixed, as indicated by the fact that:
-     most of the subprojects visited by the project completion mission were losing money and had low
levels of capacity utilization;
-     the total portfolio of subprojects affected by arrears is considerably larger than for DBM's overall
portfolio (para. 9.7);
-     there is a heavy concentration of exposure in hotels, an over-saturated industry suffering from
low occupancy rates. As a result, their performance has been weak. Arrears on hotel
subprojects alone stood at Rs. 12.3 million, or 68 percent of the subprojects' total arrears of
Rs. 18.3 million, and 9.6 percent of the total subloans outstanding as of June 30, 1993.
Median Ex-Ante
IBRD       Rate of Return     Job
Subprojects     Financing      (Percent)       Creation
Total Cost    US$                         Number
Subproject Type     Number   US$ Mn.    Million       ERR      FRR      of Jobs
All                        28        77.7        9.1      18.4      17.0     1,402
Tourism                    9         72.4        6.5      18.4      16.8     1,052
Construction               10        3.6         1.9      n.a.      13.6       3
Industry                   5         1.6         0.6      27.4      33.6      334
Transport                  4         0.2        0.1       n.a.      n.a.       13
New                        23        41.8       6.5       18.7      16.1     1,178
Expansion/Modernization    5         35.9        2.6      17.7    40.0'       224
Above Free-limit           5         60.2       5.1       18.0      15.0      800
Below Free-limit           23        17.5        3.9      18.4      17.7      602
6.3          Project costs ranged from US$29,000 to US$19.6 million, with an average project cost
of US$2.6 million. The 30 subloans from the credit line ranged extensively from US$13,000 to US$1.7
8/ FRR is available for only one invesment.



- 9 -
million, and averaged US$303,000. These subloans had an average repayment period of 8.1 years and
an average interest rate of 13.7 percent.
6.4          The project financed 23 new subprojects, whose capital investments amounted to US$41.8
million, with US$6.5 million. Five expansions/modernizations, amount;ng to US$35.9 million, were
supported with subloans equal to US$2.6 million. The ex-ante rates of return on the greenfield
subprojects closely reflected the overall returns of the 28 subprojects, since for the
expansions/modernizations, ERRs and FRRs were calculated for only two and one of the subprojects,
respectively. Five subloans, totalling US$5.1 million, were above the free limit of US$600,000. In
general, the ex-ante economic and financial rates of return for subprojects which borrowed more than
US$600,000 of project funds were marginally lower, and varied more narrowly, than those for
subprojects which utilized less than US$600,000 of IBRD financing.
6.5          Tourism: The project supported nine tourism sub-projects, whose capital costs totalled
US$72.4 million, with financing of US$6.5 million. The relatively small proportion of IBRD financing
relative to total subproject costs - only 9 percent versus 48 percent for non-tourism projects - was a
function of (i) the comparatively large capital costs involved, and (ii) disbursement regulations, which
permitted the subloan to finance 65 percent of expenditures for works and 70 percent for locally produced
goods, compared with 100 percent for imports. Ex-ante ERRs ranged from 15.0 percent to 30.6 percent,
with a median of 18.4 percent, while ex-ante FRRs varied from 14.3 percent to 34.0 percent, and had
a median of 16.8 percent.
6.6          Constructioo: IBRD funds totalling US$1.9 million helped finance 10 investments in
the construction sector amounting to US$3.6 million. Ex-ante ERRs are not available for these
subprojects. Ranging from 12.0 percent to 17.0 percent, ex-ante FRRs for these subprojects, however,
were the lowest across the various sectors. The median FRR of the 10 industrial buildings was 13.6
percent.
6.7          Indwty: Five industrial subprojects received a total of US$0.6 million from the credit
line to help effect capital investments amounting to US$1.6 million. These subprojects had the most
robust ex-ante rates of return, which fluctuated between 16.1 percent and 38.6 percent for ERRs, and
between 22.0 percent and 40.0 percent for FRRs. The median returns were 27.4 percent and 33.6
percent, respectively.
6.8          Transportation: In the transportation sector four subprojects totalling US$0.2 million
were assisted with US$72,000 from IBRD resources. The credit line was not confined only to long-term
project financing, inasmuch as three of these four subprojects financed the purchase of one bus, with
maturities of five to six years. Rates of return for these are not available.
6.9          Job Creation: The project helped facilitate the creation of 1,402 jobs, although 200 of
these are pending the completion of one hotel whose construction has stopped (para. 9.7), for an average
of 50 per company, and around US$55,000 per job. The greatest estimated job creation occurred in the
tourism sector where the incremental employment could potentially surpass 1,050. In the non-tourism
sectors, 334 new jobs were spawned in industry, and 13, in transportation.
6.10         Institutional Strengthening of DBM: The impact of the project has been greatest in
terms of its support for the institutional strengthening of DBM, which is now well underway. This
process will need to be rigorously pursued in the next one to three years for DBM to adjust effectively



- 10-
to operating profitably in a more competitive commercial environment. During project implementation,
important steps were taken in the areas of organization, management, and human resources; financial and
accounting  policies; procedures; and  electronic data processing  systems.   Specifically, DBM:
(i) implemented some organizational restructuring measures, including a management reorganization and
decentralization; (ii) established a new division to monitor clients in arrears; and (iii) adopted improved
financial and accounting policies. Following the implementation of streamlined accounting procedures,
for example, DBM was able to generate its financial statements within three months for the first time
ever, compared with nine months in previous years.
6.11            Corporatization:  The most important improvements followed DBM's initiative to
incorporate as a joint stock company under the private Companies Act, and its hiring a new, expatriate
Executive Director. Intended primarily to strengthen its management by giving DBM greater flexibility
to determine salarie? and recruit staff, this corporatization,9' combined with the leadership provided
by new senior management and DBM's Directors, has resulted in greater commercial discipline as
reflected in more prudent financial and portfolio management and attention to operational efficiency.
6.12            Organizational Restructuring: Uponjoining DBM in 1989, the new Executive Director
carried out a thorough institutional review. This study resulted in an organizational restructuring designed
to decentralize management and provide greater delegation of responsibility downward. In line with this
objective, DBM created four new Chief Manager posts for: (i) medium and large industries,
(ii) agricultural and small enterprises, (iii) finance and administration and (iv) industrial estates. The new
management structure was also designed to improve internal coordination, monitoring of operations, and
the efficiency of the bank. In addition, the position of internal auditor, reporting directly to the Executive
Director, was created, but was filled only in 1992. To improve loan appraisal and recovery, DBM also
hired additional engineering, accounting, legal and computer staff. Important changes regarding staffing
and personnel management were adopted including greater planning in recruitment, and promotion criteria
based on performance rather than seniority (individual performance appraisals were designed, and are to
be implemented starting 1993). In addition, DBM sought to: (i) develop its internal human resource base
by formalizing in-house and external training; and (ii) strengthen its banking practices by adopting an
operational manual prepared by an expert from the Industrial Development Bank of India.
6.13           Flnancial/Accountinf Policies:  Another vitally important development following the
incorporation of DBM was its change of external auditors in 1989 from a small firm to De Chazal du
Mee, the largest local auditing firm, affiliated to a prominent international auditing and accounting group.
In addition to carrying out the yearly statutory audit, the external auditor has been retained to perform
an 'ongoing audit' of DBM's operations, which, through several management letters and verbal
recommendations, has helped significantly to improve DBM's internal controls. These improvements
have centered mainly on accounting policies, systems and procedures.
2/ Salary levels continue to posc a significant obstacle to institutional strengthening, which incorporation was supposed to help
addres. At incorporation, there was a 10 percent across-the-board increase in salary levels as an incentive to aff, and also to
ensure that pay levels would not be less favorable than when DBM was a parastatal. Yet, over the 1988 to 1992 period, the avcrage
salary for senior management increased by 7.1 percent per year, while that of staff incread by 15.2 percent per yer.
1Q/ DBM  till remains owned 100 percent by public sctor shareholders, although the individual proportions have changed ightly
since appraisal.



- 11 -
6.14         Accounting Policies: Regarding accounting policies, for example, DBM followed the
auditor's advice to apply more prudent practices relating to income recognition and provisions, to avoid
accrual of unrealized amounts and to rationalize its equity base. Since 1991, the auditor has required
DBM to adopt a more stringent policy on past due amounts, thereby precluding that interest arrears
automatically pass through the income statement. Instead DBM has been placing interest on loans whose
collection is considered doubtful in an interest suspense account, and has begun recognizing income only
on a cash basis.
6.15         Provsions Policy: To improve financial management, reduce the bank's tax liabilities,
and strengthen its equity base, the auditor has also convinced DBM to amend its provisions policy. As
there was no loan classification system in the past, provisions used to be established based solely on
portfolio size, instead of by an assessment of individual risks. Instead, DBM used to maintain general
provisions, which are not tax-deductible, amounting to five percent of its loan portfolio. However, DBM
has changed its policy now so that all loans above Rs.100,000 which are in arrears are reviewed
individually, and others are checked randomly so as to establish specific provisions and write-offs on a
case-by-case basis. During 1991 and 1992, this procedure resulted in DBM's declaring specific
provisions of Rs. 15 million and Rs. 17 million, respectively; and writing off Rs.24 million and Rs.23
million, respectively. These measures have had the effect of decreasing income reported on the profit
and loss statement, thereby reducing tax liabilities. These prudent accounting policies have also permitted
DBM to establish a more rational portfolio position and equity base.
6.16         Procedure: In addition, DBM has made strides to improve other areas of operations.
It has improved its accounting procedures, for example, relating to bank reconciliations, registering of
transactions, and recording foreign lines of credit. The bank has defined a system of procedures for the
follow-up of long overdue accounts, including the creation of a manual to ensure uniformity in approach.
Finally, DBM has also adopted tighter debt workout, recovery, and wind-up procedures.
6.17         Following the marked deterioration in portfolio quality during FY90 and FY91 (Annex 3),
in October 1991 DBM instituted quarterly oversight of the arrears position by a high level Default Review
and Recovery Committee, comprised of DBM's Chairman, three Directors and the Executive Director.
Starting in November 1992, the Committee began setting quantitative targets for arrears reduction, with
the aim that total portfolio affected by arrears greater than six months should not exceed 20 percent of
total portfolio by December 1993. Creation of this committee vigorously revived the goals of DBM's
1987 Debt Recovery Action Plan.
6.18         Complementing this effort, the external auditor recommended that DBM be more rigorous
regarding reschedulings, which in the past were governed by unduly lenient criteria compared with
commercial banks, and that DBM adopt more aggressive debt recovery procedures, including, where
necessary, more active recourse to legal proceedings. These measures have begun to have an important
deterrent effect on willful default, which, by DBM's assessment, has declined to around 10 percent of
total arrears, compared with an estimated 40 percent at appraisal. In parallel, DBM has begun imposing
penalties on arrears, and has moved to billing monthly instead of quarterly. These actions have helped
to reduce arrears from almost 20 percent of portfolio in 1989 to 16.5 percent in 1992 and 15.3 percent
by end March 1993, although arrears declined only marginally in absolute terms from Rs.316 million as
of June 30, 1992, to Rs.307 million as of March 31, 1993. Despite this greater commitment to arrears
management there was non-compliance with Section 3.01 of Guarantee Agreement, as DBM's annual
Debt Recovery Action Plans were not sent to Bank (para. 9.13).



- 12 -
6.19         DBM's improved provisioning, collection and portfolio management constitute significant
steps forward since 1989 (for example, portfolio affected by arrears of over six months was reduced from
33.5 percent to 22.1 percent by mid-1992). However, further progress is needed to reduce arrears to a
manageable level and to enable lending operations to become financially profitable.
6.20         Electronic Data Processing Systems: DBM has also made progress in the introduction
of improved computer systems for loan management, expense and revenue analysis, financial and
management accounts, and management information systems. The loan management system would assist
in supervision by recording disbursements and repayments and producing up-to-date account information,
which will facilitate recovery of arrears. The system would also generate timely, accurate financial and
managerial information, which in the past has been a problem, and thus improve operational efficiency
and portfolio quality.
6.21         The implementation of improvements in DBM's computer systems, however, has taken
some time. In August 1990, DBM appointed State Informatics Ltd. (SIL) to configure a new hardware
system, and to develop and upgrade the bank's entire software applications. DBM installed a new IBM
AS400 mainframe in March 1991, and in July 1991, put the existing software on the new system. In
September 1991, SIL proposed a two-phase software system, and as part of the first phase, began
designing for DBM a tailor-made loan application and loan accounting system which was completed in
June 1993. DBM also completed the interface to the Sun Systems general ledger package, which has
been running in parallel with DBM's manual system for one year. DBM is now embarking on the second
phase of its computerization program, which will cover savings accounts, fixed deposits, and industrial
estates, and will connect DBM's branches on-line with headquarters. This is necessary for DBM to
decentralize branch operations as past of its general business and debt recovery strategies.
7. Sustinability
7.1          Overvj : The project's objectives of supporting export-oriented industrial investment
and increased competition and efficiency in long-term investment finance were not achieved to the extent
or with the speed anticipated at appraisal. Much industrial growth was financed by means other than the
apex project, and the Government has eventually begun to liberalize the financial sector, as described in
the following section. On the other hand, DBM's corporatization has effectively led to progress in
financial and institutional restructuring, although much remains to be done. Ultimately, the sustainability
of DBM as an autonomous, sound and efficient financial institution in the future will be determined by
its response to four factors: (i) the evolving liberalization of financial market conditions and regulations;
(ii) DBM's ability to adjust to new circumstances and be competitive; (iii) diversification of DBM's
resources and private savings subsidization; and (iv) redefinition of DBM's role and corporate strategy.
7.2          Evolving Financial Market Deregulation: Mauritius is now entering a new stage of its
economic development. For this, a more open, competitive, and diversified financial system is needed
to meet the more sophisticated requirements of higher value-added production and services, in terms of
longer-term savings mobilization and a broader range of competitively and efficiently priced term
investment instruments. Responding to this, in the 1990s, the Government has launched a progressive
deregulation and modernization of the financial system, although this may be moving more slowly than
is ideally needed. Until now, regulations have limited competition among banks, which have competed
essentially on service, and not on price. Although BOM no longer manages credit policy via a system
of credit ceilings on each bank, the structure of interest rates continues to be distorted with differential
rates favoring exports and other preferred sectors.



- 13 -
7.3           Nevertheless, the Government has taken steps to develop capital markets by improving
legislation and adopting policies conducive to promoting the supply and demand for securities. The
Government has undertaken further deregulatory measures1l' in 1993 including: (i) abolition of
remaining credit ceilings on non-priority sectors; (ii) liberalization of current account transactions on the
balance-of-payments; (iii) permitting Mauritian banks to invest abroad part of their surplus liquidity as
an incentive to mobilize deposits; (iv) development of a secondary bill market; (v) other actions to
encourage increased financial savings (including new bond instruments and tax allowances); and (vi) steps
to liberalize the leasing market (currently dominated by a single joint public-private sector leasing
company). These measures reinforce previous efforts at capital market deepening since the late 1980's
including: creation of the Mauritius Leasing Company (MLC [1988])W; establishment of the Stock
Exchange of Mauritius (SEM [1989]); start-up of the over-the-counter stock market (1990); founding of
the National Mutual Fund (1990) and two investment trust funds (1991-1992); and launching a Mauritius
Country Fund (1993), quoted on the London Stock Exchange, permitting non-residents to invest in the
SEM.
7.4           With the removal of credit ceilings, the real sector of the economy can begin to benefit
from greater competition in provision of long-term credit, not only from commercial banks and their
subsidiaries, but also from non-bank financial intermediaries such as leasing and factoring institutions.
To improve the regulatory framework, the Government intends to set up a financial services commission
to act as a regulatory and supervisory body to oversee the activities of non-bank financial institutions
active in long-term intermediation. Further actions are still needed, however, to enable the evolving
financial markets to fulfill the investment needs of the private sector. To facilitate development of equity
markets, for example, Mauritius needs to strengthen the Securities and Exchange Commission and create
an efficient clearing system. There is also scope for strengthening prudential supervision and regulation.
7.5           Until now, the Government's financial market regulations have provided DBM with a
privileged and predominant position in Mauritius' long-term investment finance market (paras. 2.3-2.4).
As a result, with rapid growth in the Mauritian economy, DBM experienced very rapid growth (of almost
120 percent) in its term loan portfolio over 1988-1992. However, because of institutional constraints
(para. 7.6), DBM's improvements in lending procedures and efficiency did not keep pace with this
growth. In this changing financial sector environment, DBM will inevitably face increasing competition
from banks and other financial institutions, whose services could at the margin substitute for DBM's term
lending. To respond effectively, DBM will need to: (i) accelerate its financial and institutional
strengthening; (ii) diversify its resource base; and (iii) redefine its role and strategy. Had the apex format
in fact taken hold, it is likely that the increased competition faced by DBM would have accelerated some
of DBM's institutional strengthening.
7.6           Financial and Institutional Strengthening:  With its improvements in systems,
procedures and policies, there is no doubt that DBM is in a better position now to deal with the prospect
of increased competitive pressures emanating from the evolving deregulation and innovation in the
financial sector, both in terms of instruments and institutions. DBM's recent institutional strengthening
measures and enhanced commercial rigor, although long overdue, will be indispensable to its successfully
confronting the challenges that lie ahead.  Despite some important accomplishments since its
11/ Financc Minister's Budget Speech for 1993/1994 delivered on June 21, 1993.
12/ MLC is owned in equal shares by private banks and Govenunent-owned faiancial institutions.



- 14 -
corporatization, DBM must continue to seek greater operational efficiency and quality in order to prosper
in a less regulated, more competitive environment. Areas DBM still needs to focus on include, among
others:
-       improving the efficiency and profitability of its financial intermediation;
-       strengthening its financial management and capital structure;
-       adopting greater strategic planning and vision for future;
-       consolidating and accelerating its incipient improvements in organization, procedures and systems
as a basis for any significant portfolio growth, which should be governed primarily by quality
criteria; and
-       reinforcing its human resource base.
In this respect, DBM is still hampered by an unattractive salary policy compared with the private financial
sector, where investment executives are recruited with base pay levels about 50 percent higher.
Notwithstanding remuneration, DBM's human resource policies have been strengthened under
incorporation, inasmuch as job security is performance-based instead of perceived by staff as guaranteed
because of being public sector (para. 6.12). In addition, a greater level of accountability has been
instilled with the introduction of merit-based promotions and individual performance appraisals.
7.7             Diversification of Resources:  Fortunately DBM  has also been able to enhance its
operational self-sufficiency by beginning to diversify its resource base, since donor lending may not be
as readily available as in the past. Important sources of funds include five-year time deposits at 9.5
percent from the National Pension Fund, and three domestic bond issues totalling Rs. 156.2 million,
ranging from 8-12 percent, mainly held by financial institutions. Such domestic resource mobilization
also has a positive developmental impact on local capital markets. In the changing financial sector
context, reliance on foreign public savings from international donor agencies for long-term lending
resources is declining, to be replaced by increased mobilization of private savings. DBM will thus
inevitably find itself competing for resources with other banks and non-bank financial institutions. It will
need to shift its strategy to mobilizing private savings. Before this happens on a large scale, however,
it will be necessary for DBM to adopt a prudent, long-term investment strategy to build sufficient reserves
to ensure that it has the necessary resources for systematic bond repayments.l' In the future, this will
require that DBM strengthen the sophistication of its financial management.
7.8             Role of DBM: In a competitive environment, DBM probably will continue to have a role
to play in project financing, because of its experience and its ability to lend for up to 15 years, depending
on its sources of funds.L4' In addition, the institution is being asked to support socio-economic objectives
for the Government with its various concessional lending schemes in such areas as agriculture, small- and
13/ The extemal auditor has expressed significant concem in scveral management letters to DBM in this rspeat. Accordingly,
the auditor noted thai for two specific issues of Rs.49.6 million and R. 84.5 million maturing in 1996 and 1999, respectively, DBM
has et aside only Rs. 35.7 million, as of June 30, 1992, versus Rs. 32.2 million the year before. The auditor felt that these reserves
are insufficient with regard to the maturity dates. Despite having received assurnces from DBM that it could invest enough from
future loan repayments outside of the bank, the auditor has not seen satisfactory evidence to buttress the claim.
14/ DBM still has FF7.2 million from the Caisse Francaise de Developpement and UA5.0 million from the African Development
Bank in undrawn lines of credit, as of June 30, 1993.



- 15 -
medium-sized industries, transportation, education, health, energy, environment, and informatics.'
While some of these activities may be inherently commercially viable, such as DBM's enormously
successful personal computer financing scheme, others such as the proposed interest-free loans to religious
institutions are of a more dubious commercial justification. In such instances, DBM's profitability would
be better served by carrying out these sorts of concessional initiatives off its balance sheet with greater
budgetary transparency, either through reliable, direct subsidies or through management fees.
7.9            Donor Involvement: Given the amount of liquidity, the availability of alternative sources
of funds, and the increasing financial deregulation in Mauritius, the donor community is shifting to a
broader approach regarding the financial sector, focussed on technical assistance, studies, human
infrastructure, and support to equity financing, instead of providing traditional medium- and long-term
loans.1-1 The donor community could also assist in the development of the financial sector in terms of
functions, markets and institutions. Functions which need support include underwriting, share issues and
prospectuses, credit rating, factoring, and export credit insurance. To help establish a foreign exchange
market and a secondary market in Government securities, donor assistance could assist in establishing a
merchant bank and an export financing corporation.
8. Bank Performance
8.1            Compared with the two previous credit lines involving direct lending to DBM, the project
had a much lower level of supervision effort. Bank staff spent an average of 3.6 staffweeks supervising
the apex project, versus 5.6 and 16.1 staffweeks, respectively, for DBM V and DBM VI (Annex 4).
Moreover, only two supervision missions were carried out during implementation (Table 8), the last one
occurring in October 1990. The project also experienced a lack of continuity on IBRD's part - in part
because of the Bank's reorganization in 1987 and subsequent internal institutional changes - insofar as
the various task managers responsible for supervision were not involved in preparation and appraisal.
In total, four separate task managers were responsible for supervising the project from effectiveness until
the undisbursed amounts were cancelled. This fact may help to explain the Bank's weak monitoring of
project covenants (para. 9.13).
9. DBM's Performance
9.1            Operations: Actual loan approvals over the FY88-91 periodl' significantly exceeded
projected amounts - by an average of Rs. 106 million per year (Annex 5) - because of the substantial
improvement in the economic environment, which resulted in a larger number of investment proposals
than anticipated at appraisal. Actual annual approvals averaged Rs.397 million, compared with
commitments, which averaged Rs.270 million, or 68 percent of the former. This proportion of
commitments to approvals represented a substantial improvement over FY82-87 (when DBM was able
15/ As noted in para. 9.6, arrears related to two of its older concessional schemes amounted to Rs.60 million, or 20 pecmat of
total arrears. Regarding small entrepreneurs, DBM had a grant of Rs. 124.2 million from the Govenment, whie its small bwiners
finance fund stood at Rs.2 million, as of June 30, 1992.
16/ Commonwealth Development Corporation has apparently disbanded its medium- and long-term lending operations in Mauritius,
and Caise Frnnaise de Ddveloppement is moving in this direction, focussing instead on equity through its private swctor-oriented
subsidiary, Proparco.
17/ Projections at appraisal covered up to 1991 only.



- 16 -
to commit an average of only 50 percent of its approvals), although it is somewhat disconcerting that it
is not higher. Given the restricted scope of competition that DBM faced in the term lending market
(para. 7.5), the large amounts of approved yet uncommitted loans during FY88-91, appear symptomatic
of DBM's continuing underlying institutional weaknesses, which ought to be redressed as the investment
financing market became more competitive. On the other hand, annual actual commitments and
disbursements during FY88-91 were on average only Rs. 10 million and Rs.33 million greater than
projected at appraisal, respectively.Li Accordingly, projections regarding the size of the portfolio were
remarkably close to actuals, as the gross loan portfolio turned out to be only 13 percent greater than
projected in 1991, having grown an average of 18 percent per year from 1988 to 1991 (Annex 6). In
the last two years, however, medium- and large-scale operations have dropped off considerably, reflecting
the difficulties experienced by the EPZ sector, the saturation of the tourism industry, and the impact of
labor shortages.
9.2            In spite of DBM's recent operational improvements, visits to several sub-borrowers
revealed that DBM still confronts operational challenges in project appraisal, portfolio supervision, loan
processing and loan disbursements, among others. Customers' views of DBM ranged from completely
satisfied to completely dissatisfied. The major complaints, consistently noted, included: (i) delays in
disbursement, with the sub-borrower threatening legal action in one case; (ii) excessive guarantee
requirements, in one instance surpassing seven times the loan amount of US$200,000, equivalent; and
(iii) long loan processing, which may, however, be a function of an inadequate appreciation of project
appraisal requirements on the part of the borrower. Whether these views are justified or not, an
important element of success for DBM in an increasingly deregulated environment will be to build the
image in the market of providing high-quality financial services. This imperative is underscored by
anecdotal evidence which suggests that some companies may have preferred to pay effectively two to
three percentage points higher interest rates by contracting indirect, long-term financing through roll-over
working capital lines with commercial banks, rather than deal with the DBM's greater conditionality,
more detailed loan application formalities, and processing delays.
9.3             Visits to sub-borrowers also revealed shortcomings regarding appraisal techniques and
supervision. For example, the commercial justification of one import-substituting subproject was based
on differential import duties on raw materials and finished product, despite the Government's policy of
decreasing protection to import-substituting manufacturing (para. 2.5). In retrospect, the subproject
seems unjustifiable on economic grounds,'9 and has suffered yearly losses since start-up, practically
eroding all the company's equity. Contact with sub-borrowers also revealed weaknesses regarding
supervision, for which DBM's policy is to perform site visits at least once a year, even for companies
performing well.w' Symbolic of DBM's need for additional organizational strengthening, these visits
also revealed some managerial inefficiency and staffing weaknesses at DBM, insofar as the Managing
18/ DBM's imprved actual disbursement perforffaLnce in FY91-92 is explained by several-year lags in committing three large loans
(a textile project, a flour mill, and a hotel), which werc approved over the FY86-88 period.
19/ DBM reported this paricular subproject to have an ERR of 16.1 percent, although I8RD files contain no such record, and an
FRR of 24.0 percent.
20/ Given the small physical dimensions of the country, this is already a rather lax standard. In one instance, for example,
apparently the fiust site visit since the sub-project's start-up three years ago occurred the week before the completion mission
arrived.



- 17 -
Director has been forced to playing an active, hands-on role in handling individual loan work-outs,
because of continuing weakness in middle management.
9.4             Portfolio performance: During the life of the project, the quality of DBM's portfolio
has been a subject of persistent concern, especially given the success of the Mauritian economy. As
summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 3, total arrears decreased from 19.9 percent of total
loan portfolio as of June 30, 1989, to 16.5 percent as of June 30, 1992. Actual arrears, however,
increased from Rs.220 million to Rs.316 million, during this period. Roughly half of these arrears
correspond to interest and half to principal. Meanwhile, total portfolio affected by arrears increased from
Rs.447 million, or 40.4 percent, as of June 30, 1989, to Rs.924 million, or 48.2 percent of total loan
portfolio, as of June 30, 1992.1" The profile of the aging of these arrears and the preponderance of
amounts greater than  one year old  indicate that DBM's portfolio  problem  is structural.   The
overwhelming majority (an average of 88 percent over the FY88-92 period) of these arrears is greater
than one year old, and almost all of these are more than two years past due.w' With its increasing
portfolio size, DBM appears to be growing its way out of the problem as indicated by the declining
proportion of arrears over 12 months old, and by the declining proportion of arrears to portfolio. The
magnitude of younger arrears, nevertheless, has remained fairly steady, reflecting less worrisome, yet
persistent, shorter-term collections problems. The increasing percentage of total portfolio affected by
arrears, however, continues to be a cause for concern.
June 30, 1989             June 30, 1992
DBM's Portfolio Indicators                        Rs. Mn. Percent Share  Rs. Mn. Percent Share
Total Arrears                                       220         19.9           316         16.5
-of which < 6 Months                                 7          0.7         212'          1.1
- of which 6-12 Months                             20           1.8           14          0.7
- of which >  12 Months                            193         17.4          281         14.7
Total Portfolio Affected by Arrears                 447         40.4           924        48.2
- of which < 6 Months                              77           7.0          499         26.0
- of which 6-12 Months                             96           8.7          137          7.1
- of which >  12 Months                           274         24.8           288         15.0
9.5              Following the establishment of quantifiable targets by the Default Review and Recovery
Committee in November 1992 and more aggressive recovery efforts (paras. 6.17-6.18), total arrears
position has begun to improve finally. From the beginning of the fiscal year to March 31, 1993, for
example, total arrears declined from Rs.316 to Rs.307 million. The sectoral breakdown of these arrears
21/ Comparisons with total aras  before 1989 are complicated by the fact that before then, arear  werm underad, because
of DBM's loan accounting procedurs. In the past, small scale loans, which presently account for 33 percent of the total amounts
in arrars, would only become due only once final disbursements were made. Thus, borrowers often tended to keep snall
undisbursed balances so as to postpone repayments as long as possible. DBM has since rectified this procedure by cancelling
undrawn balances. However, this precipitated in a large jump in arrears from Rs.98 million as of June 30, 1988, to Rs.220.0
million as of June 30, 1989, while total portfolio affected by arrears moved from RS.237.0 million to RS.447.0 million, respectively.
22/ These figures are also indicative of DBM's traditionally lax attitude toward recoveries in the past, given that jobs were viewed
by staff as safe, public ector positions with little accountability.
23/ These amounts are slightly overstated, because of timing problems associated with repayments on the personal computer and
solar heater loan schemes, whereby they appear as past due when, in fact, they are not.



- 18 -
is as follows: mediumllarge-scale industry, Rs.174 million (57 percent); small-scale industry, Rs.82
million (27 percent); and agriculture, Rs.51 million (17 percent).
9.6            Partly explaining the portfolio condition is the fact that about Rs.60 million of the
arrears, or nearly 20 percent of DBM's total arrears, are related to the Small Entrepreneurs Financing
Scheme and the Small Rural Enterprises Scheme-' introduced in 1984/85. Most of these loans were
extended with no security. According to a study by DBM, these loans helped to promote some
entrepreneurial activity, but more than 60 percent of these projects have actually failed, and in many cases
the sponsor abandoned the project. In this context, the bank has tightened its procedures since 1990,
requiring guarantors' signatures for loans up to Rs.50,000, and trying to obtain collateral for loans above
that amount.
9.7            The quality of the portfolio of subprojects financed under the project is marginally better
than DBM's overall portfolio. As of June 30, 1993, 13 subprojects were in arrears. The total balance
outstanding was Rs. 128.7 million, of which actual arrears totalled Rs. 18.2 million, or 14.1 percent;
however, the portion of this portfolio affected by amounted to Rs.71.4 million, or 55.5 percent, which
is somewhat worse than DBM's overall portfolio. There is a heavy concentration of the amounts in
arrears. Two hotels account for 66 percent of the total, with the largest single one, on which construction
has stopped, Rs. 11.1 million past due.;&' The second-largest subloan in arrears is an industrial building,
which accounts for 17 percent of the total. Five subloans have been fully repaid.
9.8            Regarding collections, DBM was unable to furnish the necessary information to elaborate
a time series, in part because its existing computer program does not provide for a breakdown of
collections against current and past dues. Nevertheless, in the period ending on December 31, 1992, total
cash collections amounted to Rs.406.8 million or 108 percent of amounts falling due, comprised of
collections on interest of Rs.165.3 million or 105 percent, and collections on principal of Rs.241.5
million, or 109 percent, respectively.
9.9            Financial Performance:  During the FY88-92 period, DBM's profits before taxes
averaged 1.2 percent over total assets,2Y while pre-tax returns on equity averaged a meager 5.0 percent,
but were negative in real terms as inflation averaged 10.0 percent (Annex 6). Although fairly weak,
DBM's profitability did improve as pre-tax profits increased from Rs.9.1 million in 1988 to Rs.28.2 in
1992. The strongest gains occurred in 1990, when pre-tax profits more than doubled to Rs.29.7 million,
as DBM's weighted average financial spread increased to 5.8 percent, as seen in the table below. With
the growing inflationary pressures in the economy, lending interest rates increased - remaining positive
in real terms every year except 1989 - and spreads widened, reaching a maximum in 1990. Since then,
profitability has levelled off both because spreads have receded somewhat, and because DBM has begun
to adopt a more conservative attitude toward provisions and write-offs, at the behest of its external auditor
(para. 6.14).
24I Of which 67 pecment is in arrars.
V/ DBM is hopeful about recovery prospes, insofar as the hotel is proposed to be sold "as is' to a perspective buyer.
26/ Compared with an average of 1.9 percent over FY88-91, as projected at apprmisal.



- 19 -
DBM's Financial Spread. FY88-92
(Percent)
FY ending June 30,                   1988       1982       1990      1991       1922
Average Lending Rate                  10.4      11.0       13.0       12.6      12.7
Average Cost of Funds                  8. LQ2               Li         1         1
Financial Spread                       2.4        4.1       5.8        5.1       5.2
Inflation Rate (CPI)                   4.1       16.8      10.8        8.8       4.3
9.10           The profitability of DBM's financial intermediation, however, may be somewhat
overstated, because of the importance of rental income from its industrial estates.03 Based purely on
its banking business, excluding the impact of this rental income,W DBM would have experienced losses
over the FY88-92 period, as summarized below. Accordingly, DBM's net financial intermediation
margin, before depreciation, over the period averaged around -0.9 percent of average total assets, net of
industrial estates. It should be noted, moreover, that if DBM had applied more stringent policies with
respect to interest income, provisions, and write-offs in the past (paras. 6-14-6.15), these negative
financial intermediation results would have been even worse.
DBM's Financial Intermediation as Percent of Average Total Assets.2' FY88-92
Avg.
1988      1989       1990      1291       1222      88 22
Financial Earnings                 6.9       7.2        9.3        9.0        8.2       8.1
Financial Expenses                  12       5.4        5.6        6.        6.1 
Gross Financial                    1.2        1.8       3.7        2.9       2.1        2.3
Intermediation Margin
Administrative Expenses-'          1.6        1.5       1.5        1.5        1.4       1.5
Provisions/Write-Offs              L2         1.4       21                    127      1i
Net Financial                     -1.6       -1.1      -0.1       -0.7      -1.0       -0.9
Intermediation Margin
9.11           Capital Structure: Over FY88-92, DBM's capital structure has generally inproved as
seen m Annex 6. Following an injection of equity in 1989, DBM's long-term debt to equity ratio has
remained within the limit of 4:1 as stipulated section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement. The bank's
equity base, fortified by the asset revaluation in 1992, is nonetheless overstated, because of the legacy
of liberal accounting policies in the past. For example, as of FY92, DBM had Rs.274 million of accrued
interest income accounted for as a receivable, of which Rs.241 million had passed through the income
27/ According to the Staff Appraisal Repont, DBM evidently wu going to dispose of thes estae, although this has not trapired.
The gradual disposal of all of DBM's industrial estates to the private ector was viewed by DBM as not only enabling it to
concentrate on improving its role as a development bank, but also to provide it with capital gains and an inproved cash flow.
LB Indicative of DBM's continuing lax attitude toward rental collections, accumulated arrears on indusial estates have increased
from RJ. I I million as of June 30, 1990, to Rs. 12 million as of June 30, 1993.
29/ Excluding industrial estates.
&  Net of administrative expenses relating to industrial etate.



- 20 -
statement. The difference of Rs.43 million, pertaining to arrears greater than two years old, was not
taken to equity, but instead was posted to the interest suspense account as a liability. For comparative
purposes, meanwhile, Rs. 139 million of DBM's total arrears of Rs.316 million as of FY92 corresponded
to interest arrears over one year (Annex 6), practically all of which were more than two years past due.
Nonetheless, with Rs. 128 million in general reserves and Rs.444 million in revaluation reserves, mostly
pertaining to industrial estates, as of June 30, 1992, DBM is solidly capitalized, and could absorb a full
write-off of these receivables in a worst case scenario.
9.12         Finally, at the end of FY92, DBM had accumulated potential foreign exchange losses of
Rs. 137 million, equivalent to the balance of its foreign exchange fluctuation fund since its inception in
1984 (para. 2.9). Although these are theoretically covered by a claim on the Ministry of Finance to the
extent that exchange losses exceed DBM's exchange fluctuation fund, the balance does not distinguish
between unrealized and realized losses, the latter of which were not taken to the income statement. Thus,
to strengthen DBM's financial position, it was recommended that the bank have a detailed analysis done
on all foreign currency repayments since 1984 to evaluate the magnitude of realized losses with respect
to capital and interest. This study, which was completed during FY93, identified that DBM's exchange
losses recoverable from the Government amounted to Rs.57 million as of June 30, 1992. The
Government indemnified DBM for this amount in August 1993, and DBM is now seeking the
corresponding tax relief.
9.13         Compliance: Full details of status of compliance with major covenants are provided in
Table 7. As required in section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement, DBM was supposed to send its Debt
Recovery Action Programs every year to the Bank. Although these were never sent, this non-compliance
is mitigated by DBM's increasing awareness of its unsatisfactory portfolio quality, and by the greater
oversight stemming from the establishment of a Default Review and Recovery Committee to monitor
arrears (paras. 6.17-6.18).
10. Project Relationship
10.1         Relations between the borrower, DBM, and the Bank were amicable and cooperative.
Rapport with other financial institutions, however, was mixed. As noted in para. 5.3, the relationship
with SCB was strained from the start, while MCB felt frustrated and disappointed to have gone through
the Bank's appraisal process only to learn that it could not partake in the apex scheme.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.1         Project documentation was difficult to locate, in part because of internal reorganizations
and staff changes within the Bank during the course of the project. Detailed information regarding
subprojects, however, was not available in Africa Information Service Center, although some summary
information was ultimately located internally. For this reason, the Bank had to rely in large measure on
information provided by DBM; this information itself was not always complete. Some documentation
in the Bank simply was misfiled. For example the Implementation Summary from one of the two
supervision missions was attached to a Form 590 for the ISAL (probably because they were supervised
in tandem) and placed in the Departmental files for the ISAL. No Aide Memoire from this mission,
however, was available in files.



- 21 -
12. Lessons Learned
12.1          There are several lessons to learn from this project.  These concern: (i) borrower
commitment; (ii) the need to consider alternative instruments in project design; (iii) financial market
liberalization; and (iv) foreign exchange risk.
12.2          Borrower Commitment:  First. without sufficient Borrower commitment to (and
"ownership" of) the project concept. project objectives are difficult to achieve. Although the apex
arrangement could have constituted a first step in diversifying the long-term investment financing market,
the Government did not closely identify with the project design and the project's broader objectives for
financial sector development. The Government was disinclined to implement an apex operation, but
rather preferred a straight line of credit to DBM, beyond which the Bank wanted to move given
Mauritius' developmental context (paras. 3.1-3.3). Under the limited apex format, only two PFIs were
allowed access to IBRD funds. The second PFI, SCB, felt uncomfortable with the project (para. 5.3),
however, and ultimately never drew down any project funds. It was reluctant to accept the operational
oversight associated with IBRD's subproject reporting requirements (para. 3.4), and did not perceive an
essential role for itself other than that of fulfilling the need for a second state-owned bank in the apex
arrangement. For these reasons, the disbursement risk relating to SCB as a PFI, as identified in the staff
appraisal report (SAR), in fact materialized, but not because of the reasons expounded in the SAR - i.e.
procedural delays stemming from SCB's unfamiliarity with Bank requirements for subproject appraisal
and processing. In practice, the project ostensibly became a straight DFC operation, and was confined
to the more narrow objectives of providing financing to subprojects and institutional strengthening.
Therefore, where there is less than full borrower commitment to a project, it is difficult to achieve the
full scope of the desired results, particularly where other sources of finance are available. Under these
circumstances, furthermore, it was unrealistic to believe that the apex would really be expanded later to
other PFIs, as noted in the SAR.
12.3          Alternative Instruments: Second. to achieve the broader sectoral changes that the Bank
was really seeking to introduce, an alternative instrument, such as a financial sector adjustment operatign,
would have been more effective than an apex mechanism. given that the Government at the time preferred
to limit the lon-term investment financing market to DBM.
12.4           Liberalization of Financial Markets: Third. financial market liberalization is the key
to mobilizing adequate savings and to their efficient allocation to the productive sectors. During the
course of the project, the Mauritian financial system began to evolve towards more of a market-driven
orientation (paras. 7.2-7.3). As Mauritius shifts into a new phase of higher value-added development,
the economy will require increasing levels of capital-intensive investment. Accordingly, continued
financial market liberalization will be the key to mobilizing an adequate level of savings, as delineated
in the Bank's Financial Sector Review (Report No. 10443-MAS, June 30, 1992), and to their efficient
allocation for term investment. Domestic financial markets will have to become increasingly competitive
and commercially-oriented to mobilize savings predominantly from private sources, given that donor
funding through the banking sector is likely to be less needed and substantially reduced. DBM risks
being displaced and/or acting as a bottleneck to efficient term lending, unless it can firmly embrace the
operational challenges it still confronts and compete successfully in such a dynamic financial sector
(para. 7.6).
12.5          Foreign Exchanee Risk:  Fourth. although DBM  was covered by a Government
guarantee. the magnitude of its foreign exchange losses reinforces the rationale underlying generally



- 22 -
applied Bank policy of not accepting that financial intermediaries bear foreign exchange risks, unless there
is an adequate forward market to hedge against them. Under a process of economic liberalization, DFCs
elsewhere may expect to encounter foreign exchange losses similar to DBM (paras. 2.9, 5.2, 5.3 and
9.12). Moreover, these losses may be relatively larger in relation to the institutions' equity bases, to the
extent that they are not as comparatively well run as DBM, and to the extent that there are greater
distortions in the local economy than in Mauritius.



- 23 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
The World Bank Loan 2927 MAS US$ 10 million was approved by its Board in March 1988 for
a repayment period of 12 years beginning on December 1, 1992.
The proceeds of the loan were channelled through the Bank of Mauritius for relending by
participating financial institutions originally and subsequently by DBM exclusively to private enterprises
in the industrial, tourism, transportation and construction sectors.
DBM has utilized an amount of U$9.08 million from the above credit for 28 sub-projects. The
balance of US$0.92 million was cancelled last March.
The following report covers among others, features such as DBM's perspective on the
development impact, design and implementation of the project, its analysis on contents of Part I of the
World Bank Report, its own performance during the evolution and implementation of the project and the
effectiveness of the relationship between the World Bank and itself as required for Part II. This exercise
would be incomplete without an appreciation of strategic planning, procedures and systems and the human
resource base which constitute essential forces to thrust the institution against the tough challenges of the
coming years.
A. DBM's Perspective on the Development Impact, Design and Implementation of the Project
The project has contributed to a balanced allocation of assistance among the key economic
sectors, namely industrial, tourism, transport and construction, which were the mainstay of economic
activity during the period under review. Out of the 28 sub-projects financed under line of credit 2927-
MAS, 36 percent of them related to tourism sector, 34 percent to construction and 15 percent each to
industry and transport.
The positive impact of the project must also be viewed from the fact that during the early period
(1988-90), it injected foreign exchange into an economy at a take off stage and hence contributed to
strengthen the country's balance of payment position. With a buoyant economy, Mauritius now has
graduated to Article VIII of the IMF Articles of Agreement, whereby there is no longer foreign exchange
control on current payments and transfers. This is synonymous with sound financial standing for the
country.
The apex concept originally designed for the project was ultimately implemented in a modified
version, through a syndication of assistance with other term lenders/financial intermediaries. Out of the
28 sub-projects financed under the line of credit through DBM, nine were co-financed with other financial
institutions. Under this modified concept, IBRD's funds through DBM represented US$5.6 million out
of the credit of US$10.0 million, that is 56 percent. The ratio of funds provided by the World Bank -
DBM: DBM: other financial institutions to the above nine projects stood at 12:6:82.



- 24 -
B. Adequaca and Accuracy of the Factual Information in Parts I and m
We are of the view that the factual information given in Parts I and Ell are fairly adequate and
accurate.
C. DBM's Analysis on Contents of Part I
At the outset we wish to convey our broad agreement with the substance in Part I of the report.
We feel, however, that the following features call for certain elaborations.
Project Implementation
Under paragraph 5.4, it has rightly been pointed out that the European Economic Community
(EEC) has successfully implemented a line of credit based on the apex concept, channelled through the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, with DBM and the Mauritius Co-operative Central
Bank as the financial intermediaries. It must be emphasized that the success of the implementation of this
line of credit is due not so much on account of its low cost, but its moratorium of 10 years and repayment
period of 30 years.
DBM's Performance
As regards disproportionate security coverage of about 600 percent mentioned in paragraph 9.2,
it must be reiterated that DBM's lending operations are basically project-oriented. A security coverage
of about two times is the usual criterion. The example quoted is exceptional rather than illustrative in
the sense that the sub-borrower was not able to parcel his assets given as security to DBM.
Under paragraph 9.6, it is mentioned that most loans related to the Small Entrepreneur Financing
Scheme and the Small Rural Enterprise Scheme were extended with no security. The correct position
is that these loans were inadequately secured as they were earmarked for small entrepreneurs whose
business assets, besides being insignificant and of a highly depreciating nature, provided inadequate
coverage to the DBM.
As regards evolution of arrears, it has been stated in paragraph 9.5 that total arrears at Rs.316
million as of June 30, 1992, fell to Rs.307 million as of March 31, 1993. This has further declined to
Rs.294 million as of June 30, 1993. The above figures are gross arrears as they include accounts which
have been rescheduled and which are to be segregated with the aid of computerization. These also
include cases referred for court litigation.
It must be stated that since the setting up of the Default Review and Recovery Committee of the
Board, the accounts in arrears are being followed up in a systematic manner. The Committee has been
meeting regularly on a quarterly basis and has been reviewing the recovery performance of individual
cases of large defaults. Specific targets in terms of parameters such as percentage of arrears to total
portfolio and the percentage of affected portfolio to total portfolio are being set and periodically reviewed.
The Bank has also increased its penal rates on defaults as a corrective measure to discourage willful
defaults.
The quality of the portfolio of sub-projects financed under the project - as reflected by sectors
such as tourism, construction, textile and transport -- is not likely to cause any concern to DBM; they



- 25 -
have absorptive capacity to tide over short-term adverse fluctuations. Besides, in view of their
appreciating nature of assets and/or their potential both in improved production and productivity, they
are marketable investments in the long run and hence represent viable proposals.
D. DBM's Own Performance Durin! the Evolution and Implementation of the Project
The World Bank has highlighted the improvement of DBM's commitments as a percentage of
approvals during the period under review at 68 percent compared to 50 percent earlier.
As to other operational improvements, the process of simplifying procedures relating to loan
evaluations, disbursements and legal procedures is an ongoing exercise whose ultimate objective is to
make them close to a one-stop shop, in response to a modernized financial establishment.
Profitability and Resources Mobilization
DBM has also been able to stabilize its profitability over the years 1988-1992, notwithstanding
a write-off of about Rs.78 million of bad debts, a transition from a tax-free status to a tax-liable entity
and a fall in the prime interest rate.
Million Rupees
asis 1989    1290    1291    1922
Operating Profit                 21.9    32.5    65.7    69.4    68.3
Taxation                            -        -    12.1     7.1    10.3
Bad Debts Written Off               -        -    31.0    24.4    23.0
Provisions                       12A      18 9      Q    14.2    ILI
Net Profit                        9.5    13.6    17.6    23.0    17.9
During the period under review, DBM has made an assessment of the quantum of bad debts to
be written off which, apart from the early theoretical provision based on five percent of the portfolio,
now gives a more realistic result of the Bank's operations. Since 1990 when the Bank was corporatized,
it is subject to the usual taxation of 35 percent on its net earnings on accrual basis. It has also withstood
the fall in the prime interest rate from 11 percent to 8 percent followed by a parallel decrease in lending
rates. (he fall in the prime rate is explained by the Government's policy to stimulate domestic
investment, especially in capital intensive technology and equipment). On the other hand, as the cost of
borrowings for the Bank has remained unchanged, DBM has had to turn to more competitive funding
sources, foreign and local. As for foreign sources, DBM has obtained a line of credit with European
Investment Bank for 4 million ECUs at 4 percent p.a. and another line of credit of US$3.5 million at
5 percent from the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa. As for local resources, given the
liquidity of the market and its advantage over exchange risks linked with foreign currency loans, and
hence its competitiveness, DBM is increasingly tapping this source as illustrated as follows with respect
to its outstanding portfolio:



- 26 -
Million Rupees
12      1989    1990   1291    1992
Foreign Resources                580     824    936   1,106   1,038
Local Resources                  117    245      272     418     739
Total                            697   1,069   1,208   1,524   1,777
Ratio                          83:17   77:23   77:23   73:27   58:42
The above table shows that from 83 percent in 1988, DBM has significantly reduced its
dependence of foreign credit to 58 percent in 1992, thereby cautioning itself against foreign exchange
fluctuation risks tied up with foreign lines of credit, while also making its financial management more
autonomous. Lastly the profitability level is being sustained by short-term investments of surplus funds
at competitive rates, thereby providing for an optimum utilization of resources.
Capital Structure and Financial Management
The capital structure of the Bank has been consistently strengthened during the period under
review. The paid-up capital which stood at Rs.80 million in 1988, now amounts to Rs. 125 million, an
increase of about 56 percent. In view of the greater reliance on local funds, the projected increase in the
operations and a respectable debt:equity requirement norm of 4: 1, DBM will soon be increasing its paid-
up capital by about Rs.75 million so as to bring it to Rs.200 million. During the period under review,
the Bank has followed a prudent dividend payment policy: profits have rather been ploughed back to
consolidate the reserve base. The paid-up capital and reserves which stood at Rs. 149 million in 1988
have now grown to about Rs.700 million in 1992, an increase of more than 350 percent.
DBM has also taken up the issue of recovering cumulative losses arising from foreign exchange
loans transactions with the Government. There was a prior understanding that the Government would
make up for losses sustained by the Bank over and above a premium of 3 percent charged for foreign
currency loans and credited to Exchange Fluctuation Reserve Fund. The losses for the period July 1984
to June 30, 1992 amounted to Rs.231.6 million, consisting of Rs.154.9 million in capital repayments and
Rs.76.7 million in interest payments. The Bank has already absorbed in its profit and loss account the
interest losses during the respective years, and the Government has paid Rs.56.9 million representing the
losses incurred till June 30, 1992, on account of capital repayments net of funds available in the Exchange
Fluctuation Reserve Fund of Rs.98.0 million.
The Bank's assets have grown from Rs.1,321 million in 1988 to Rs.3,131 million in 1992, a
growth of more than 135 percent. This is inclusive of Rs.443 million on account of revaluation of fixed
assets held in capital reserve account.
Million Rupees
1988    1989  A199    1991    1992
Assets                         1,321   1,579   1,751   2,136   3,131



- 27 -
The Bank's net worth has also significantly increased from Rs. 149 million in 1988 to Rs.699 million in
1992 as indicated below.
Million Rupees
12      1989   122Q    1991    1222
Net Worth                        149    202      214     237     699
Given exchange risks associated with strong currencies, DBM has successfully applied its local
resources to prepay a line of credit of about Pounds Sterling 5 million with the Commonwealth
Development Finance Corporation, which both in terms of cost and exchange would have proven very
adverse for the institution if allowed to follow its maturity course.
E. The Effectiveness of the RelationshiR Between the World Bank and the DBM
The historical working relationship nurtured between the Bank and DBM over two decades has
helped the DBM to improve and adopt appraisal standards and follow-up procedures required by
international institutions. The mutually helpful and understanding attitude of the two institutions has
contributed to a great extent to facilitate a smooth flow of communication. It is thus that while the World
Bank reacted favourably to the requests of the DBM for credits, the latter implemented the World Bank's
recommendations for the development of a strategic plan; a reorganization programme, including staff
reinforcement; an industrial promotion programme; and a reduction in loan portfolio affected by arrears.
At the macro-level, the support of the World Bank has helped DBM to continue to play its catalytic role
for economic growth in the country as an important conduit of long-term funds for the industrial, tourism
and agricultural sectors. The World Bank's requirement for DBM to submit projects for approval above
the limit of US$600,000 may be increased to US$1.0 million for future World Bank's assistance, as it will
contribute to reducing the delays in making funds available to sub-projects. Systems have already been
streamlined and, where possible, procedures have been curtailed so as to make credit speedily available
in an increasingly competitive environment.
The training imparted by the Economic Development Institut in Washington to the Staff of the
DBM has contributed to the building up of competent personnel in investment appraisal and supervision
fields. Today DBM can proudly claim that the expertise acquired by the staff from its association with the
World Bank has upgraded the level which is comparable with the best professional staff of DFCs in this
part of the world.
F. Strategic PlanningE
In the context of strategic planning and vision for future, it must be emphasized that our export-
oriented economy remains vulnerable to an internationally-competitive environment, which is perpetually
undergoing dynamic change in the context of technological innovations. Hence, long-term planning
becomes a difficult exercise. However, for the short term, we have identified the technological upgrading
and modernisation of the EPZ sector; the mechanisation and diversification of the agricultural sector; and
the informatics and service sectors as the main sectors with high growth potential to sustain the past level
of economic growth. Today DBM is the only institution that has taken upon itself to diffuse computer
culture to the educated individuals. It is also implementing an Information Technology Financing Scheme
in line with the present strategy of the Government to improve the production and productivity of the



- 28 -
existing manufacturing and service sector units through the use of sophisticated informatic technological
tools.
The Bank is also aware of the important role of the services sector, whose share in the GDP is
expected to attain 25 percent from the present level of 12 percent in the years to come. In this respect,
it is setting up an informatics park jointly with Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
(MEDIA) at La Tour Koenig in order to provide basic infrastructure for the high value added and new
information technological units to be set up.
Furthermore, in the context of the freeport, the demand for warehousing space is exceeding the
most optimistic forecast. The DBM is aware that considerable investment will be required in warehousing
facilities and cargo handling equipment in order to cater to freeport activities. In this respect, the Bank
will channel funds in this sector as soon as the Master Plan for infrastructural development needs and
assessment of financial requirements is finalised.
The Government has also recently announced special incentives for certain high value added sectors
like the jewellery, microtechnics, multi-colour printing, and publishing which have potentials for fast
growth. These have been identified as priority areas within the industrial diversification strategy. These
sectors will in the near future avail of the required assistance from DBM in line with the Government
policy.
As regards tourism, which remains one of the major sources of foreign exchange earning for the
country, DBM has introduced a special scheme of assistance at preferential rates to encourage small- and
medium-sized hotels to refurnish their units, and improve and upgrade their infrastructure with a view to
cater to upmarket clientele. As for the big hotel enterprises, they continue to have assistance from the
Bank for upgrading and refurbishment.
In the agricultural sector, the Bank is expanding its operations to cover, inter alia, mechanization
and diversification apart from traditional livestock, vegetable and fruit cultivation. Stress is laid on tissue
culture and biotechnology and the use of modern cultural practices in the agricultural sector to improve
production, productivity and quality. The Bank has introduced special schemes at concessional finance
which relate to:
(i)    acquisition of irrigation equipment by small farmers; and
(ii)   application of hydroponics culture and/or tissue culture for production of vegetables and
fruits, use of post harvest technologies for conditioning fruits and vegetables, and
production of specified flowers for export. Further to boost the availability of fish, a
scheme to develop small scale aquaculture using water tanks has been launched.
As for small and medium enterprises, DBM along with the Government will encourage these
enterprises to integrate more fully within the industrial sector, either as sub-contractors or sub-producers
of larger manufacturing units.
G. Procedures and Systems
The evaluation of procedures and systems has remained a constant exercise in the DBM. In the
past these evaluations have been either conducted internally or by external consultants. To keep pace with
changes in the economic environment, DBM has been undertaking, with the help of independent



- 29 -
consultants, a review of the systems to respond to and harmonize with a highly competitive environment.
The internal reviews are also following their normal course.
In short, it is DBM's present strategy to consolidate its overall activities and reinforce its human
resource base before moving on to significant portfolio growth. In this respect, it will be seen that the
level of sanctions, which stood in 1988 at Rs.348 million, have moved only to Rs.414 million in 1992.
Disbursements have also maintained the same trend. Both parameters are indicative of DBM's present
strategy to consolidate its operations.
H. Human Resource Base
The modernization and diversification of financial services in the country and the fast pace at which
our economic infrastructure is being upgraded have also given a new impetus for human resources
development in the Bank. The Bank has recruited professionals in the recent past for covering multi-
disciplinary functioning of its operations, such as accounting, engineering, computer programming and
legal. Apart from recruitment, training activities have also been intensified for upgrading the existing level
of knowledge and skills of the staff to keep pace with the new challenges of an emerging sophisticated
financial sector. Apart from organising in-house training for its staff, the Bank has been deputing its
officers to various overseas training programmes organised by well known international organisations.
Further, with the assistance of the Industrial Development Bank of India, a specially tailor-made course
of three weeks duration on appraisal and follow-up techniques for about 15 professionals of the Bank is
being organised at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Development Banking at Hyderabad, India.



- 30 -
Table I
PART III
MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
Statistical Informatio
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Title       Purpose                                                       Approval       Status/Comment
3 13-MAS    Industrial Lcnding.                                             1972           Completed
411-MAS    DMB's investments in Coromandel Industrial Estate.                1973          Completed
979-MAS    Industrial Lending.                                              1974           Completed
1168-MAS   Industrial Lending.                                              1975           Completed
1481-MAS   Industrial and tourism financing mechanization and               1977           Completed
modernization of sugar sector.
1789-MAS   Direct industrial lending to medium- and large-scale enterprises;  1979         Completed
(DBM V)    component for small-scale enterprise sector, and refinancing of
commercial banks' foreign exchange advances.
2164-MAS   Industrial lending to medium- and large-scale enterprises and    1982           Completed
(DBM VI)  small-scale enterprises. Component for industrial and financial
sectors studies.



- 31 -
Iable 2
Page 1 of 2
MAURTUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Timetable
Item                       Planned                 Revised                  Acu
Pre-Appraisal              November 1986                           November 1986
Appraisal Mission          February 1987                             February 1987
Post-Appraisal Mission     October 1987                               October 1987
Loan Negotiations          February 1988                             February 1988
Board Approval             March 1988                                  March 1988
Loan Signature             May 1988                                      May 1988
Loan Effectiveness         May 1988                                 September 1988
Loan Completion            June 1991           December 1991        December 1991
(Submission of Subprojects)
Loan Closing (Disbursements) December 1995     December 1992        December 1992
The main issues - excluding those relating to the ultimately dropped industrial estates component -
occurring at key processing stages were the following:
Prearation:    Issues germane to the final project design which were raised in the project brief
included: (a) introduction by DBM of variable rate lending in industrial and tourism
sectors; (b) adequacy of DBM's allocation to foreign exchange fluctuation fund, and
premium charged on rupee lending; (c) need for institutional strengthening in DBM
regarding management, organization and staffmg, and loan/rental arrears; and (d) need
for a capital increase to bring DBM's debt:equity ratio below 4:1, given the bank's
rapid growth, which was averaging 30 percent per year in real terms since 1984.
Pre-Appraisal:  Since an apex arrangement was a new, and potentially contentious, concept in
Mauritius, the project was designed with three options so as to accommodate possible
changes with minor adjustments and minimal delays to project processing: (i) an apex
operation through BOM; (ii) an apex operation through DBM; or (iii) a line of credit
restricted to DBM.
Loan Committee: Approved proposed project with the following comments: (i) operating the apex system
through DBM was not acceptable in light of the potential conflict of interest if DBM
assumed dual role of apex agency and direct user of funds; and (ii) if the Government
was not prepared to use BOM as the apex institution, alternative apex arrangements
should be found since a project limited to DBM would clearly be an inferior solution.
ADpraisal:     Mission focussed on BOM as apex institution for on-lending to four PFIs. Report
dwelt on institutional strengthening measures needed by DBM to improve
(i) management and organization; and (ii) portfolio management and debt recovery.
Agreements reached to consult IBRD regarding the appointment of a new Managing
Director, and to incorporate DBM into the Companies Act to assist in strengthening
the bank's management and staff.



- 32 -
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
Post-AAraisal:  Following receipt of telex from Government objecting to apex component, processing
was temporarily suspended. Discussions during Annual Meetings resulted in changes
of project design to make it more responsive to the Government's concerns. During
post-appraisal mission, project design was finalized accordingly: (i) BOM would act
as the apex agency; (ii) financial and operational arrangements were defined; and (iii) a
notional pre-allocation of US$6 million for DBM and US$4 million for SCB was
established. MEDIA decided not to participate in the project. DBM's amended
operational policy statement and debt recovery plan were reviewed and found
satisfactory.



- 33 -
Table 3
MAURlTIUS
Industrial Finance Project
Loan Disbursements
USS Million
Estimated */               FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96
Annual                     0.30      0.60       1.80      2.00      1.80      1.40      1.20      0.60      0.30
Cumulative                 0.30      0.90      2.70       4.70      6.50      7.90      9.10      9.70      10.00
Annual                     0.00      2.25      2.52       3.76      0.55      0.00
Cumulative                 0.00      2.25      4.77       8.53      9.08      9.08
Actual as % of Estimated
Annual                      00/      375%      140%      188%       31%       0%/.
Cumulative                  0%       250%      177%      181%      140%       115%
I Estimated disbursement schedule was based on the standard disbursement profile for industrial development
and finance projects for the Afiica region.
Table 4
MAURPIUS
Industrial Finance Project
Project Implementation
USS Million
Sub-loans Above the Free Limit (USS0.6 million)                  5.143
Sub-loans Below the Free Limit (USS0.6 million)                  3.939
Amount Cancelled per Letter from DBM of March 4, 1993            0.918
Original Loan Amount                                            10.000



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
MIRD Funds
Financing    Financing                             Average     Average                as % of Total
Number of  Subproject  From IBRD  From DBM's    Other            Equity      Grace      Repayment   Average    Subproject
Subproject Type    Subproects     Cost        Funds    Own Funds   Financing    Financing    (Months)    (Years)   Interest Rate    Costs
Al              28         77,724       9,082        3,151       38,689      26,802        22.6         8.1         13.7%        12%
Tourism            9         72,385       6,538        3,151       38,554       24,142        29.8         8.4        14.3%         90/*
Non-tourism          1 9       5,339        2,544          0          135         2,660         18.8         7.9        13.3%        48%
Construction         10        3,575        1,870          0           0          1,705        20.3          8.8        12.5%        52%
Industry           5         1,561         602          0           123          836         21.6         8.4         14.4%        39%
Trnsport            4          203          72           0            12          119         11.5         5.3         14.0%        35%
New              23    J41,797           6,459       2,182   |  14,554        18,602        23.3         8.3        13.5%         15%
Expansion/     _
Modenization          5         35,927       2,623        969         24,135       8,200        19.2         7.2         14.3%         7%
Above Free Limit       5         60,214       5,143        2,343       36,049       16,679        27.8         8.3        14.1%   |     9/    |
Below Free Limit       23        17,510       3,939         808        2,640         10,123      21.5   T    8.1    T   13.6%          22%
See Annex 2 for more details on individual subprojects.



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT RESULTS
_____  _____   -    Ex-Ante Estimated ERR _____-_          _    Ex-Ante EsFimated FRR
Estimad  Jobs
Subproject Type     Created                  Median       MaAimum        Minimum                   Median        Maxinum        Minimum
All            1,402                   18.4%          38.6%          15.0%/e                 17.00/%        40.00/.         12.0%/o
Touism            1 ,052                  18.4%         30.6%          15.0%/e                  16.8%          34.00/         14.3%
Non-tomismn         350                    27.4%          38.6%          16.1%                    17.00/%        40.00/         12.00/%
Consbuction          3                       n.a.          n.a-           n.a.                    13.6%          17.00/.        12.0%/
Industry          334                    27.4%          38.6%          16.1%                   33.6%           40.0%/.        22.0/%
Transport          13                      na.            n.a.           n.a.                    n.a.            n.a.           n.a. 
New             1,178                   18.7%     | 38.6%             15.0%/.                 16.1%          37.90/o         12.00h/o
Expansion/            
Modeization          224                    17.7%          18.00/f        17.4%                   40.00/o        40.00h          40.0%/
Above Free Limit      800                     18.00/.        19.6% /       17.4%                    15.00hO        20.00/    |    14.1%
Below Free Limit      602                     18.4%    I   38.6%           15.0%     I              17.7%     |    40.0/o    |    12.0%     I
See Annex 2 for more ddails on individu subprojects.



- 36 -
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Covenant                       Subject                              Status
Loan
Agreement
3.01          BOM shall carry out the project with due  In compliance
diligence and efficiency; maintain the Project
Coordinating Committee; and supervise the
execution of Participating Financial
Institutions' (PFIs) Subsidiary Financing
Agreements
3.03          BOM shall permit tourism and manufacturing  In compliance, but moot insofar
enterprises which earn foreign exchange to    as no subloans were made in
maintain foreign exchange accounts for debt   foreign exchange
servicing
4.01 (b)      BOM shall have accounts and financial     In compliance
statements audited, and shall furnish them to
IBRD within 6 months of end of fiscal year                              l
Schedule 4    Furnish audited financial statements of PFIs   In compliance
Part         to IBRD within six months of the end of each
B.2.(c)(iii)    fiscal year                                                           l
Annex to      Interest rates on sub-loans shall be positive in  In compliance
Schedule 4    real terms, and shall be competitive with
Part A.2      market rates
Annex to      Calculate economic rates of return for    Apparently not in full
Schedule 4    investment projects in excess of US$600,000   compliance as ERRs are not
Part B.4                                                available for subprojects A-10,
B-6 and B-25.
Annex to      Subproject reporting requirements         In compliance
Schedule 4
Part C.2



- 37 -
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Guarantee
Agreement                      Subject                              Status
3.01 (a)      Consult with IBRD on the appointment of   In compliance
any person as Managing Director of DBM
3.01 (b)      Cause DBM to furnish its Debt Recovery    Lack of compliance mitigated
Action Program for each financial year to  by DBM's creation of Default
IBRD for its review and comments by      Review and Recovery
August 31 of each year until debt and rental   Committee in October 1991
arrears have been reduced to a level
satisfactory to IBRD
3.02 (a)      Ratio of DBM's long-term debt to equity   In compliance, as Government
ratio shall not exceed 4:1               injected Rs.45 million in equity
in 1989



- 38 -
Table 8
MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
Loan 2927-MAS
Use of Bank Resources
(Staffweeks)
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                        Planned                Revised                       Final
Through Appraisal                                                                                  134.9
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                                    20.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                                                 1.0
Supervision                                     25                     24                           10.8
Total                                                                                              167.3
Comments: No information on planned staff inputs is available for years prior to FY89.
B. Missions
No. of    Days in                                    Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Date   Persons       Field    Specialization Represented      Rating Status
Through Appraisal
Appraisal                 02/87      5          60      Senior Industrial Economist
Senior Operations Officer Financial
Analyst Operations Officer
Consultant
Appraisal Through Board
Approval
Post Appraisal             10/87     3          25       Senior Industrial Economist
Financial Analyst Operations Officer
Supervision
Supervision               08/89      1           4      Financial Analyst                       I
Supervision                10/90     1           5      Sr. Financial Analyst                   1
Comments: During one year of supervision, no supervision mission was carried out, as adequate
resources did not remain in the travel budget.



- 39 -
Annex I
MAURITIIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROFILE OF BANKING SYSTEM
Rs. Million
Assets                                                              -  1986 -    -  1992 -
Mauritius Commercial Bank                                          3,995.1        38.1%     14,473.1       31.6%
State Commercial Bank                                              2,995.2        28.6%     11,485.7       25.1%
Mauntius Commercial Bank Finance Corporation                        1,315.9       12.6%      4,732.0        10.3%
Development Bank of Mauritius                                        852.2         8.1%      3,162.8         6.9%
Other Banks                                                         1,316.7       12.6%     11,904.6       26.0%
10,475.1        100%     45,758.2        100%
Loans to Private Sector                                                     1986 -           -    1992 -
Mauritius Commercial Bank                                           1,805.8       31.3%      4,676.4       26.0%
State Commercial Bank                                              1,298.4        22.5%      3,994.7       22.2%
Mauritius Commercial Bank Finance Corporation                        884.0        15.3%      3,013.5        16.8%
Development Bank of Mauntius                                         612.0        10.6%      1,786.0         9.9%
Other Banks                                                         1,173.3       20.3%      4,316.7       25.1%
5,773.5      100.0%     17,987.3       100.0%
ASSET STRUCTURE OF FINANCIAL SECTOR
Rs. Million
1986 -   -  1992 -
Commercial Banks                                                    9,622.9       68.0%     42,595.4       71.1%
DBM                                                                   852.0        6.0%       3,162.8        5.3%
Pension Funds a/                                                    1,738.9       12.3%       4,614.4        7.7%
Insurance Companies b/                                              1,323.1        9.3%       5,575.8        9.3%
State Investment Corp.                                                 63.0        0.4%       1,058.0       1.8%
Mauritius Housing Corp. b)                                            352.0        2.5%       1,537.3       2.6%
Post Ofrice Savings Bank                                              207.0        1.5%        375.0        0.6%
Mauritius Leasing Company                                                                      207.0        0.3%
National Mutual Fund                                                                            191.0        0.3%
Mauritius Development Investment Tnrst Company                                                  136.0        0.2%
National Investment Trust                                                                      480.0         0.8%
Total                                                              14,158.9        100%      59,932.7       100%
a/ Estimate for 1992.
b/ Estimate based proportionately on 1986.



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROFILE OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED
us$ VWo
ActU      Finacing    Fi_ancing                                           Repay-                            Ex-Ant       Ex-Au.
Subprj.    Subprjcct                                  Acts        Subpxoj      Date of      Project   Fes IBRD  Fr. DBM'          Otleqr EB Gt"     t                  SC w     htwf    P-i-led  P.ikttd              sAimated
cvid         Nab e         Sectot      Activity     Financed      TSpe                      Cot t     Fndls    Otn Funds   Fitnctint    Financintg   (Mt}   f)                  Rste   Jobc Cttcd       ERR          FRR
Club Vac. de
A-01   HelI Marre        Tounism        Hotel    ftldg&PauiP      N         I l-oct-3     10432        923          120         6,334        2 35t5        24          10      140%         200       W306%         200
W.te"p1urls
A-C4   Villsec           Togim          Hot1 l    Bldg&.Euip    Ncw         15-Dec-tt    2.570         552          SO            73         1137          36          10      14.0%        116         13.1%        14.3%
Kovap
A-O5   r tt Lt M. g.                 Spert Shoes   Equimc         Ncw        5-Jan-39      322         152           0            0           170           27         5       14.0%         I 1        16.1%        24.0%
Percy Bore
Holoiday
A-06   Bunoalow          Tourim         I   Hotl  BldaREauip   N**       I  5-Jan-89       20    I   110             0            0         . .9t          42          t       1410%  I      4          150%        .I52%
hiduaiatzl
A-07   N.rco              Cons.          l           Bldg.        New        5-an-39       347         179           0            0           161          22          10      12.5%         0           ra          13.3%
A-08   Calps ld.         To-matn        litol     Bldt&Equip    New          5-Jan-39      239         76            0            0           163           36         10      14.0%         3          1.7%       1.3%
ramn Rivicar                  lodurinal
A-09   tnv.               Conot.   I     is          Blde.        Nl d t 5-Jan-9           433   I73                 0            0 0         210            4         1       12.5%         0           IM          13.4%
MBJ Industria
A-I0   D-v.               Const.   Factory BId.t     Bldgt.       Ncw       20-Jun-89      1jJa        644           0            0           524          27          to      12.5%         0            a.14.1%
A- I   (MawitiuaS        Tounrin        liel      Bldg&Wauip    Ncw         29-Aut-t9    13.533       1.107         554          5.605       6.M            36         9       14.0%        400         196%         15.Q%
=(MAtritiUs)     Touan          Hotel     Bldg&Equip    New          3-Scp-90      5_6         330           0          2,432      1    04       *j            7       15.0%  =                           _
A-I2   J&B Optics Ltd    MfLt          Frate    Plant A Fquip    New        6-Mar-90       443         201           0            9n          144           IS         10      150%          12            .         33.6%
Ncw Mauitius
A-1A 1  lotels           Tourian        Hotel        Bldg.         e        21-Dec-90     l%4S6       1742           0          12,65S       1056           23         S       13.0%        200         17.4%
A-15 5Sm RloruA Ltd   Tosgism           Hold    I 1    ldL.      Recnod     21-Dec-90      9           725          969         11422        6              24         6       15.0%         0          1.0%   =
t4



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRLAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROFILE OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED
Actul    FinAncing    Finaing                                           Repy-                             Ex-Ajl       Ex-Ante
sub1a~.    Subprejec                                 Auds        Suhprj.    Datc of      Project   Frmi IBRD  Fame DB?wrs    OLthr          Equity      Grace       amei    Inimut   Estimate       Eatimatd    Estimated
Code        Name          Sector      Actiy        Finaned    T*J          Apnl          Cost       Funds      Own Rurds   Financins    Financing    (Months)   (Yeu)    Rate   Job Cat-ed          ERR          FRR
Goodlanda Dev.
B-02   Co.                Coa<m_     Ind. Ridt.     Blds.        New       114Oct-8      479         2U4           0           0           231           19        10       12.5%        0          *.           17,0%
Blue HSizira
B-04    (Repaid)         Totimn        Hotel        Bld.        New       11-Oct-83     1.929       407           0            0          1352                             14.0%        100        26.9%        34.0%
Blue Horizon
(Rcpaidj         Towimn        Hotel        Bids.        New       4-Jan-90     1994         42            0            0          I.512         1L         L       14.0%
Socidte Plemee
B-06   Lune               CoratL     Ind. Bldgt.    Bldi.        New       11-Oct-33     651         3t1           0            0          307          25         10       :2.5%        0           na.         12.0%
Sauoo&                                     Pis at
B-07   Gamiui            Textile     Garmends      1i            New      I11-Oct-S      533         161           0           0           427          23         10       14.0%       160         219%         220%
B-09   Neaw Hem           CAMEt      nd             BRde         New       I1-Oct-6t      72          14           0            0           5S           14         5       12.5%        0
b-10   PTrro rt                         Brm          BU          New       11-Oct-3l      44         20            0            0           24           7          5       14.0%        2       _
Jankajaym 
9-13    Kinabhe         T         rM                 Bus         New     IN-Oct-t3        44         20            0            0           24           10         5       14 0%        4
Goolam R.
9-14   Eadully            Coast    lId. Bldg        BldL         New       114-Oc-33      41         13            0           0            28           14         3       12.5%        0
Coastal Tour
B-17   Ltd.             Tant   Car Ratl    Vehickes              New       I BOct-ts      36          19          0            12           55           12         5       14.0%        4
_ Aubeeluck               Transpot       Bus           Bw          Nc    INIOct-3t          29          13          0            0            16           17         6       14.0%        3
9-21   'MawitilI  _. Cosu            bd. Bldg.      BldL         New       114-Ot-3       II         47            0           0            34           is        _        12.5%        0                       12.4%
B-22   Goolak Ollee       Cot        I. Bld         Bldc         NW        114ct-33     194      _71               0           0           123          24         10       12.5%        3
Diora~ea
B-23   Ltd.              Textile     Ganas    E                  New       114Oct-33     142         45            0           0            97           Is        10       14.0%       151         38.6%        379%
RAhi=Me
B2  fn                         Mmk ICas Btd-            F-XPF     11-c-t83        52         30            0           0            22           16    5*         . 1235%        0 O
9-25    Papille Ld.      To e          Hdel      Bld*&Eauie  IxL  I ttl-n                733          2            0            0          651           I          ll 0    14.0%        24      _
Anild"th                      IJstal       Plant
B-26   Cungsdin                                              I .  W  J1h  o   4   .90     66         43           0            25            2)          17         7       15.0%        0                       40.0%
_0



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
ARREARS ANALYSIS
Rs. Million as ofJune 30.                    1988                 1989                 1990                 1991                 1992
Total Loan Portfolio                          881                1,107                 1,238                1,440                1,918
Total Affri                                    98     1Lj 1%       2Q      19.9Y2 m             25.9/        271     18.8%        316      16 5%
<6 Months                                       3      0.4%          7      O./s        14      1.1%         15      1.1%         21       1.1%
6-12 Months                                    19      2.2%         20       1.8%        25      2.0/         22       1.5%         14      0.7%
> I Year                                       75      8.5%         M      17.4%        2       22.8%   23 4         16.2%    28           14.7%/
-otwPrincipal                               44                   117                  139                  119                  143
-olwInterest                                 31                   76                  144                  115                  139
Total Portfolio Affected B3yAirar             237    26.9Y         447    40.4Y         817     66.0/        823     57.2Y        2M      482%
<6 Months                                      38      4.3%         77      7.0%/       335     27.0/.       417     29.0%        499     26.0/
6-12 Months                                    72      8.1%         96      8.70/       138     11.2%         82      5.7%         137      7.1%
> I Year                                      128     14.5%        274     24.8%        344     27.8%        324    22.5%         288      15.0%
Number of Loans as of June 30.               1988                 1989                 1990                 1991                 1992
Total Portfolio                             8.585               29 7                  10.990                9.983               15.862
< 6 Months                                    n.a.      n.a.       707      7.2%       1,848    16.8%       1,964    19.7/.      2,210     13.90/.
6-12Months                                    990     11.5%      1,369     13.9'.      1,112    10.1%        932      9.3%        815       5.1%
> 1 Yealr                                   2.679     31.2%      5 372     54.4%      4.561         V      4.140    41.5%        4.319    27.2
Total Affected Loans                          n.a.      n.a.     7,448     75.4%      7,521     68.4%      7,036     70.5%       7,344    46.3%
oE
o)



MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MAURITIUS
SECTORAL ANALYSIS OF ARREARS
Total Arrmars as of June 30                         1988                1989                1990                 1991                1992
Small Scale                                           21    21.4%         64    29.1%         63    19.6%          73    26.9%         78    24.7%/.
Medium and Large Industry                             62    63.3%        135    61.4%        226    70.4%         154    56.8%        190    60.1%
Agriculture                                ,I                IS,%         21      9.S%        32    10.0%          44    16.2%         48   I.2%
98   100.00/.      220   100.0%/.      321   100.0%/.      271   100.0%        316   100.0%
Portfolio Affected bv Arrears as of June 30         1988                1989                1990                 1991                1992
Small Scale                                           45    19.0%        116    26.0%        123    15.1%         120    14.6%        137    14.8%
Medium and Large Industry                            157    66.2%        290    64.9%/.      561    68.7%         617    75.0%/.      695    75.2%
Agriculture                                           35    148%          41      9.2%        133    16.3%         86    10.4%         92    10.0/.
237   100.0%        447   100.0%        817   100.0/.      823   100.0%        924   100.0%
o 2



- 44 -
Annex 4
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Comparison of Level of Supervision Effort with Other Projects Involving DBM
Number of Staffweeks per Year
Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6    Total
DBMV                              6.8    7.3    3.7    4.6    5.1    6.3          33.8        5.6
DBM VI                                    27.5    4.6                             32.1        16.1
Industrial Finance Project        3.4    5.2    2.2                               10.8        3.6



MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
DBM: Comparative Operations 1988-1992
(Rs Millions)
AsofJune30.                           1988                1989                 1990                 1991           19921/
Projected  Actual    Projected  Actual    Projected  Actual    Projected  Actual   Actual
Approvals
Loans
Medium/Large Industiy 2/        146.4   221.0       155.9   323.0       130.2   292.0        142.7   286.3          227.0
Others                          122.5   120.2       129.5    89.3       137.1    77.7         145.0   115.6         187.5
Equity Investments                   2.0     3.4         2.0    18.8         2.0      6.1         2.0     -           -
Industrial Estates                 25.8      1.5        20.5    11.5        -        11.0        -        11.2         16.2
TOTAL                 296.7   346.1        307.9   442.6       269.3   386.8        289.7   413.1         430.7
Commitments
Loans
Medium/Largelndustry            113.0   131.0       139.7   122.2       130.5   224.8        122.9   216.5          106.5
Others                          110.8   108.6       117.0    90.2        123.4    59.3        129.6    68.1         200.2
Equity Tnvestments                   2.0    -            2.0    19.2         2.0      4.8         2.0     -           -
Industrial Estates                  25.8     1.6        20.5    11.5        -        11.0        -        11.2         16.1
TOTAL                 251.6   241.2        279.2   243.1       255.9   299.9        254.5   295.8         322.8
Disbursements
Loans
Medium/Large Industry            93.3   122.0       109.8   131.8        125.5   215.3        115.8   259.3         166.4
Others                          100.2    86.6       106.0    88.4        111.6    55.5        117.2    70.2         198.3
Equity Investments                   2.0     9.6         2.0    20.1         2.0      2.0         2.0     -
Industrial Estates                  22.2     6.7        23.1      2.3       10.3      2.9        -         3.9           1.6
TOTAL                 217.7   224.9        240.9   242.6       249.4   275.7        235.0   333.4         366.3
t/ Pojicction in SAR covered up to 1991 only.
2/ Local Cumency Loam projected at Rs 10 million each year fiom 1987-1991.
Includes Agro-Induwy and Tourim Loans. Icludcs bouowinp by MEDIAi



MAURITHJS
Industrial Finance Project
DBM: Projected and Actual Income Statements 1988-1992
(Rs. Millions)
As of June 30,                                     1988                   1989                   1990                  1991            1992 1/
Projected     Actual   Projected     Actual   Projected     Actual  Projected      Actual      Actual
INCOME
Interest and Commissions on Loans               67.1    72.4            80.8    95.4           89.3   146.0           97.2   165.5       192.2
Dividends                                         1.1     0.3            1.1      1.5           1.1      1.3           1.1      2.1         1.9
Short-term Investment Interest                    6.0     6.6            6.5     4.1            6.5      4.6           6.5      5.0        12.2
Rental Income                                    22.9    23.4           26.2    25.7           30.1    29.3           32.8    32.2        38.1
Other Income                                      0.5     2.3            0.5      3.2           0.5      2.8           0.5    11.0          9.0
TOTALINCOME                         97.6   105.0          115.1   129.9           127.5   184.0         138.1   215.8        253.4
E.XPENSES
Financial Charges                                52.8    60.2           64.9    71.9           73.9    88.4           80.2   111.1        142.9
Administrative Expenses                          15.0    19.0           16.0    21.2           17.0    25.3           18.0    30.6        36.8
Depreciation                                      3.6     4.3            3.9     4.3            4.0      4.6           3.9      4.7         5.4
TOTAL EXPENSES                       71.4    83.5           84.8    97.4            94.9   118.3         102.1   146.4        185.1
Net Earnings                                     26.2    21.5           30.3    32.6           32.6    65.7           36.0    69.4        68.3
Provisions 2/                                    6.0   (12.4)            5.5   (I8.9)          10.0    (5.0)          10.0   (14.9)       (17.1)
Bad Debts Wntten Off                                                                                  (31.0)                  (24.4)      (23.0)
Net Profit before Tax                            20.2     9.1           24.8    13.6           22.6    29.7                   30.1        28.2
Taxation                                                                                               (12.1)                  (7.1)      (10.3)
NET PROFIT                        20.2      9.1           24.8    13.6           22.6    17.6           26.0    23.0        17.9
I/Projectionx inSARcovervduptol191 only
2/ ActustJ uclude bad debts wntSen off for 198 and 1989
0



- 47 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
DMB: Proiected and Actual Balance Sheet 1988-1992
(Rs. million)
As of June 30.                                    1988                     1989                     1990                      1991              1992 1/
Projected      Actual   Projected       Actual   Projected       Actual   Projected         Atual        Actual
ASSETS
Currert
Csuhinhand andat Banks                        30.0       55.5          30.0       70.5          30.0       44.8           30.0      149.3        216.0
Bonds and Government Securities                9.9        8.9            9.9       8.9           9.9        8.9            9.9        8.9           8.9
Other current asets 2/                       196.1      211.0         202.9      260.4         207.9      315.4          226.4     391.8         464.3
SubtotAl                           236.0     275.4          242.8     339.8          247.8     369.1          266.3      555.0         689.2
Portfolio
Loans                                        962.0      864.7        1,046.5   1,088.7        1,152.1    1,219.7       1,258.8    1,421.3       1,895.8
Equity                                         17.5      16.3           19.5      18.3          21.5       18.3           23.5       18.3          22.5
Total Portfolio (Grosa)                    979.5     881.0        1,066.0   1,107.0        1,173.6   1,238.0         1,282.3    1,439.6      1,918.3
Les provisions                          (42.0)    (39.0)         (47.5)    (47.0)         (57.5)    (53.0)          (67.5)    (87.0)       (109.7)
Les current matuities                  (105.8)    (73.9)        (115.1)    (99.5)        (127.9)   (103.3)         (138.5)   (120.9)       (159.1)
Total portfolio (net)                        831.7      768.1         903.4      960.5         988.2   1,081.7         1,076.3    1,231.7       1,649.5
Industrial EstAts (Net)                      124.5      105.9         144.0      105.0         150.6      106.9          146.9      109.3        515.0
Other Fixed Assets (Net)                        3.6       6.2           3.8        8.2           4.0       10.2            4.2       19.7          78.7
Exchange Rev. Adj.                                      131.8                    176.0                    185.0                    243.5         230.4
Total .A"ets                       1,195.8   1,287.4        1,294 0    1,589.5       1.390 6    1,752.9       1,493.7   2,154.2        3,162.8
UALLBIXIES AND NET WORTH
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                           149.4     182.9         145.3      187.1         133.5      252.6          150.5      304.8         583.7
Long Term Debt 3/                            646.8      629.8         696.3      850.7         756.5      981.4          791.2   1,255.1        1,491.4
Bonds                                         100.0     134.1         100.0      134.1         100.0      134.1          100.0      156.2         156.2
Funds 4/                                      115.2      51.3          140.4      57.5         165.5       62.6          189.6       83.2         108.3
Subtotal                         1,011.4     998.1        1,082.0   1,229.4        1,155.5   1,430.7         1,231.3    1,799.3      2,339.6
Net Wor
Paid-in capital                               80.0       80.0          80.0      125.0           80.0     125.0           80.0      125.0         125.0
R"serves nd retained earnings                104.4       69.4         132.0       76.9         155.1       89.4          182.4      112.4        574.0
Grant for small entrepreneurs                           140.0                    158.2                    107.8                     117.5         124.2
SubLotal                           184.4     289.4          212.0     360.1          235.1      322.2         262.4      354.9         823.2
Total Liabilities and Net Worth            1,195.8   1,287.5        1,294.0   1,589.5        1,390.6   1,752.9        1,493.7    2,154.2       3,162.8
1: Projections in SAR covered up to 1991 only.
2i Includes current maturities, accrued income and prepaid expenses.
3i Les current maturities.
4.' Actuals include exchange fluctuations reserve and equity, finance fund, but exclude staff pension fund and caisse centrale fund.



MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
DBM Proiected and Actual Sources and Uses of Funds 1988 - 1992
(Rs Millions)
As of June 30.                               1988                       1989                       1990                  1991              1992 1/
Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual 2/       Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual       Actual
Sources
Net profit and non-cash charges          28.8   21.3               34.5                        37.1   70.2              41.2   74.1           63.0
Draw-downonloans                        220.4   75.8              147.1                       151.5  138.7             130.1  390.8          413.6
Loan collections                         79.1    -                120.9                       139.2    -               140.3    -
Other sources                            23.0   70.3               25.2                        25.1    5.1              24.1   28.9            5.9
Increase in share capital                 15.0   15.0                                        -         -              -
TOTAL                      366.3  182.4             327.7                       352.9  214.0             335.7  493.8          482.5
Uses
Debtrepayment                            71.4   52.3               75.7                       86.5   74.8               99.0  163.6          152.1
Disbursementofloans                     311.7  214.7              240.9                      249.4  122.0              235.0  167.6          451.8
Fixed assets                              0.2    9.4                0.2                        0.2    3.9                0.2   16.8           13.2
Others                                          (94.0)           -                           -         13.3           -        131.6        (161.5)
Change in working capital               (17.0)    -                10.9                        16.8     -                1.5   14.2           26.9
TOTAL                      366.3  182.4             327.7                       352,.9  214.0            335.7  493.8          482.5
1 / Projection in SAR covered up to t 991 only.
2/ DBM was unable to provide figures for 1989, asi changed extenal auditon, each of which revwieed scxth-month peiods.
i10
o
.a. O



MAURITIUS
Industrial Finance Project
DBM: Proiected and Actual Financial Ratios 1988 - 1992
As of June 30.                                                1988                    1989                   1990                    1991             1992 1/
Projeted      Actual   Projected      Actual   Projected      Actual   Projected      Actual     Actual
Income Statement Elements as % of Average Total Assests
1. Total income                                               8.9      9.0           9.3      9.0            9.5    11.0             9.6    11.0         9.5
2. Finance charges                                            4.8      5.2            5.2     5.0             5.5     5.3             5.5     5.7        5.4
3. Administrative expenses                                    1.4      1.6            1.3     1.5             1.3     1.5             1.3     1.6         1.4
4. Provisions                                                 0.5      1.1            0.4     1.3             0.7     0.3             0.7     0.8        0.6
5. Depreciation                                               0.3      0.4            0.3     0.3            0.3      0.3            0.3      0.2        0.2
6. Total expenses                                             6.5      7.2            6.8     6.8             7.0     7.1             7.0     7.5        7.0
7. Net pre-tax profit before provisions                       2.3      1.9            2.5     2.3             2.5     3.9             2.6     3.6        2.6
8. Netpre-taxprofitafterprovisions 2/                         1.8      0.8            2.0     0.9             1.7     1.8             1.9     1.5        1.1
Profitability Indicators
9. Net pre-tax profit (after provisions) as %
of AverageNet Worth                                       11.4      4.3           12.7     2.8            10.1     4.0            10.8     8.8        5.1
10. Income from loans as % of Average
Loan Portfolio                                            7.8      9.8            7.9    10.0             7.9    13.0             7.9    13.0        12.2
11. Cost ofdebtas%ofAverage Debt                              8.0     8.6             8.5     8.7            9.1      8.7            9.3      9.0        9.4
Financial Structure Indicators
12. Current assets/Current liabilities                        1.6      1.5            1.7     1.8             1.9     1.5            1.8      1.8        1.2
13. Term debt/Year-end equity                                 4.0     2.2             3.8     2.4            3.5      2.9            3.4      3.2        1.8
14. Provisionas%ofloanandequitypoftfolio                      4.3      4.4            4.5     4.2            4.9      4.3            5.3      6.0        5.7
1/ Projeetiom m SAR covered up to 1991 ony.
2/ DBM u not subject to Kmeni tax uiWl 1990.
.0
oX
Ko



